                                          Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 40993-SB




                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                    PROPOSEDGRANT

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.O MILLION
                             (US$ 1.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO
                                    SOLOMON ISLANDS

                                            FORA

                        HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORTPROGRAM
                          TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                       February 19,2008




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective January 17,2007)


                           Currency Unit = Solomon IslandsDollars
                                SBD 7.42 = US$1
                                     US$ = SDR1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 - December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australian Agency for InternationalDevelopment
CBO      Community BasedOrganization
FMP      Financial Management Improvement Program
GFATM    Global Fundfor AIDS, Tuberculosis, andMalaria
HIES     HouseholdIncome and Expenditure Survey
HISP     Health Institutional Strengthening Program
HSDP     Health Sector Development Program
HSTA     Health Sector Trust Account
ICB      InternationalCompetitive Bidding
M&E      Monitoringand Evaluation
MOFT     MinistryofFinanceandTreasury
M H M S  Ministry o f Health and Medical Services
MTEF     MediumTerm Expenditure Framework
N C B    National Competitive Bidding
N C D    Non-Communicable Disease
NERDP    National Economic Recovery andDevelopment Plan
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NHS      National Health Strategy
NHSP     National Health Strategic Plan
RAF      Resource Allocation Formula
RAMS1    Regional Assistance Missionto the Solomon Islands
RETA     Regional Technical Assistance
SBD      Standard BiddingDocuments
S I      Solomon Islands
SIG      Solomon Islands Government
SWAP     Sector Wide Approach


                           Vice President:     James W. Adams
                         Country Director:     NigelRoberts
                          Sector Manager:      Fadia M.Saadah
                      Task Team Leader:        Muhammad Ali Pate

                                                                                                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                          SOLOMON ISLANDS

                        HealthSector SupportProgramTechnicalAssistance Project

                                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                           Page

       I STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE
        .                                                                                 .................................................................  3
          A. Country/sector issues and government strategy..................................................................                                 3
          B.   Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                      5
          C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                    5

       I1.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION                           .............................................................................................    6
          A.   Lending instrument.............................................................................................................               6
          B.   Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                6
          C. Project components.............................................................................................................                 6
          D.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                8
          E.   Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                              9

       I11.    IMPLEMENTATION                      ....................................................................................................     10
          A.   Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                  10
          B.   Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                               10
          C.   Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results ................................................................                              10
          D.   Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
                     *    . .
                                                                                                                                                            11
          E.   Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                              11
          F.   Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                           13

       IV .    APPRAISAL SUMMARY:                          ............................................................................................     13
          A. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                          13
          B. Technical...........................................................................................................................           14
          C. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................          14
          D.   Social.................................................................................................................................      15
          E.   Environment......................................................................................................................            15
          F.   Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................              15
          G. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                           15

       Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                         .........................................................   17


I                                                                                                                                                                  I
 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
 their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                       ........................................................................      23

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription           ......................................................................................       27

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................       33

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                .................................................................................       34

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                             .....................................  36

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements              ......................................................................................       41

Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                 .............................................................................       48

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ............................................................................................       50

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision                       .....................................................................      51

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile               .................................................................................       52

Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits                 ..............................................................................       53

Annex 14: Country at a Glance     .................................................................................................        54

Annex 15: Map IBRD 35742     ......................................................................................................        56

                                    SOLOMON ISLANDS

     HEALTHSECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAMTECHNICALASSISTANCE PROJECT

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                 EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                                           EASHD

Date: February 19, 2008                        TeamLeader: MuhammadAli Pate
Country Director: Nigel Roberts                Sectors: Health (100%)
Sector Managermirector: Fadia M.Saadah         Themes: Healthsystem performance (P)
Project ID: PO97671                            Environmental screening category: Not
                                               Required
LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance
Grant


[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit [XI Grant [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 1.50
ProDosed terms:
                                   FinancingPlan(US$m)
                  Source                       Local           Foreign           Total
BORROWEFURECIPIENT                               0.00              0.00            0.00
IDAGrant                                         0.45              1.05             1.50
Total:                                           0.45              1.05             1.50

Recipient:
Solomon Islands

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministry o f Health and Medical Services (MHMS)
P.O.Box 349
Honiara
Solomon Islands


                         Estimateddisbursements(Bank FW/US$m)
FY               8       9       10        11     12        0        0        0        0
4nnual          0.10    0.35     0.65      0.40   0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Zumulative      0.10    0.45     1.10      1.50   1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50    1.50
Project implementationperiod: Start March 31,2008 End: September 30, 2010
Expectedeffectiveness date: May 30, 2008
ExDected closing date: March 31.201 1

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                           [ fies [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                           [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                          [ ]Yes [ IN0
I&                                                                                    [ Yes [ ] N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                           [XIYes [ ] N o

  Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?       [x        [ No
Re$ PAD D.7
  Project development objective: Re$ PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3
  The Project's development objective i s to improve the institutional capacity o f MHMS inthe
  areas o fpublic expenditure management and sector performance monitoring. Such capacity
  development would be critical to the overall success o f the Program inimprovinghealth services
  deliveryandoutcomes.

  Project description: Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
  Component 1: Public Expenditure Management: This project component will contribute
  technical assistance to complete the first rolling sector MTEF, improve national MHMS and
  provincial health planningand budgeting systems and procedures, buildingon work done during
  preparation, so that priorities are set within a knownresource envelope and linkedto expected
  results.
   Component 2: Sector Performance Monitoring: This project component will provide technical
  assistance to improve the sector-wide program's M&E framework to focus on a core set o f
  indicators covering the key dimensions o f sector performance along key dimensions.
   Component 3: Training and Capacity Building:This component will strengthen the
  management capacity o f senior managers andprovincial healthdirectors to be more effective in
  strategic planning and execution. It will also finance part o fthe MHMS strategic humanresource
  training plan.

  Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
  N o safeguard policies are triggered.
  Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
  Re$ PAD C.7
  Boardpresentation: None
  Loadcredit effectiveness: None.
  Covenants applicable to project implementation:
      0   Complete the first sector medium-termexpenditure framework by December 31,2009.
          Prepare and carry out annualjoint health sector reviews satisfactory to the Association by
          December 31o f each year.
          Prepare on annual basis a strategic training planthat includes training activities to be
          financed bythe Project.
          Maintain a procurement officer within the MHMSon terms and conditions satisfactory to
          the Association for the duration o f project implementation.

I. STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

A. Country/sectorissuesand governmentstrategy

Country andsector issues

1.       Following three years o f civil conflict and a three-year post-emergency period, the
Solomon Islands (SI) shifted from emergency recovery to medium-term development planning.
Duringthe conflict, government control o fthe economy collapsed, lawlessnesswas rampant, and
social services were seriously disrupted. The situation on the ground improved during the three
years post-conflict with good progress in restoring government functioning and improving law
and order. This was supported by the Australia-led Regional Assistance Missionto the Solomon
Islands (RAMSI), which continues upon request from the Solomon Islands Government (SIG).
As the country phases out o f the "post-conflict" period, attention is turning to medium-term
strategy and planning at the national and sectoral levels.    For instance, the Ministry of Health
and Medical Services (MHMS) has preparedits strategy document for the years 2006-2010.


2.       Inhealth, improving priorityoutcomes inthe SolomonIslandsis anurgentneed. Health
status, which deteriorated significantly during the conflict, remains poor with indicators among
the worst in the Pacific. Maternal mortality (MMR) appears to have increased in recent years,
reaching 141.5/100,000 live births in 2004, from a low o f 78.4 in 1997 and although no recent
estimate for infant mortality (IMR) i s available, the 1999 Census IMR o f 66/1,000 was among
the highest inthe region. Moreover, malaria incidence increasedby 30% duringthe conflict and
has remained high at 160-190 cases/1,000 in 2004-2005. Tuberculosis (TB) rates have also
increased, reaching 93/100,000 in 2005, the highest since 1995 and anecdotal evidence o f
increasing diabetes and high HIV risk factors in a recent survey are emerging concerns. A
recently conducted Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) i s in the process o f being finalized
(as at November 5, 2007).      Preliminary indications show some improvement in utilization,
immunization coverage, infant mortality, family planning and supervised deliveries.          If the
preliminary results are confirmed the challenge will be to maintain the momentum towards
continued improvement inthe outcomes.


3.       There are challenges related to both technical quality o f services and the capacity o f the
health system to deliver services effectively and efficiently. Foremost among these are resource
allocations that do not align with preventive and primary health care priorities; poor quality o f
services from chronic under-investmentinthe maintenance o f health infrastructure and recurrent
shortages o f drugs; weak incentives to promote performance and to respond to demand-side
factors; unclear division o f responsibilities between national and provincial health authorities;
and weak management capacity compounded by an under-developed information system.
Another long-term challenge is improving the sustainability o f sector financing as donors finance
about 50% o f total sector expenditureand 50% o f recurrent expenditures.




                                                 3

Governmentstrategy

4.        In2006, the Ministry of Health formulated a National Health Strategic Plan (NHSP)
laying out the government's priority areas and actions for the health sector over the five-year
period 2006-2010 (see Annex 1). The Plan covers eight priority strategic areas', seven o f which
are focused on specific health issues or health service delivery issues currently affecting health
outcomes, or that will impact health status in the future. In order to make the Plan operational,
the SIG subsequently formulated a detailed program for the development o f the health sector in
the period 2008-201 1, the Health Sector Support Program (HSSP) with technical assistance
provided through AusAID and the World Bank.                         It is an over-arching program with
complementary financing o f a single sector program led by the Government and in coordination
with several partners namely AusAID - the major external donor, funding approximately 40
percent of the total program - the World Bank, WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, SPC and The Global
Fund.


5.        In alignment with the NHSP, the HSSP's development objective is to support the
Solomon Islands Government in achieving agreed priority health outcomes through effective,
efficient, and equitable services responsive to the population's health needs. Its three focus
areas2are a subset o f the government's priorities selected fkom the NHSP strategic areas. Annex
4 describes infurther detail the HSSP and shows the linkages between the NHSP and the HSSP.
The key documents o f this sector program include the five-year NHSP, a draft monitoring and
evaluation plan, a partial health sector medium term expenditure framework (MTEF), and an
operational program (the Program Implementation Plan (PIP)), which address priority areas for
donor assistance. Of the priority areas identified in the PIP, AusAID i s intending to focus
specifically on malaria, healthpromotion, and health systems strengthening, with the latter being
largely financing for operational costs.


6.         Given the current state o f the HSSP's preparation and the areas identified inthe program
for financing by AusAID, several aspects o f the overall program require continued development.
Specifically, the sector's overall resource allocation picture i s not clear. The MTEF does not
reflect the full sector envelope (government plus donors) and the government has yet to revise
the MTEF to allocate resources across the sector in alignment with its strategy. Also, the
possibilities for efficiency gains, equity concerns, the realignment o f expenditures with priorities,
and the sustainability o f sector financing need to be explored. Finally, the monitoring and
evaluation framework needs to identify a core set o f key perforhance indicators to measure the
effectiveness, efficiency, equity, and sustainability dimensions o f sector performance. It i s with
this in mind that the Bank proposes its support to the HSSP and the SIG through a Technical
Assistance Grant to improve the capacity o f the MHMS in a few selected areas, namely public
expenditure management, sector performance monitoring, and management training.                           Such
capacity development would be critical to the overall success o f the HSSP.

'The  Solomon Islands National Health Strategic areas are: (i) focus, (ii) healthprograms, (iii)
                                                               people        public                    malaria,
(iv) common childhood diseases, (v) non-communicable diseases, (vi) HIV/AIDS and STIs, (vii) family planning
and reproductive health, and (viii) health systems strengthening.
  The Health Sector Support Program's focus areas are: (i) community focus, (ii) healthprograms, and (iii)
                                                                              priority
health systems strengthening.


                                                          4

B. Rationale for Bank involvement

7.       There i s a strong rationale for the World Bank's technical assistance to the Solomon
Islands' HSSP and its support i s specifically designed to address the gaps inthe existing program
andbuildcapacity. The main constraints to improving health sector performance inthe Solomon
Islands lie more in resource allocation and management and lack o f effective performance
monitoring, rather than inthe level o f financing itself. Increased investment inthe health sector
through HSSP would fall short o f achieving the desired impact if the SIG's capacity to allocate
resources efficiently and equitably, and monitor sector performance were not strengthened. The
World Bank,with its extensive comparative advantage inthe areas of health financing andpublic
expenditure management, is uniquely qualified to oversee the technical assistance required for
such capacity building. As a proposed Technical Assistance Grant supporting the wider health
sector program, largely supported by AusAID, the Bank's modest financing contribution will
effectively leverage the Bank's strengths and resources with the largest donor in the sector to
improve health services and sector performance. Moreover, the HSSP i s consistent with the
World Bank's Regional Engagement Framework FY2006-2009, which highlights the importance
of improving the effectiveness o f public expenditure in the social sectors through strategic
partnerships with key donors.


8.       Furtherjustification for World Bank involvement lies inthe fact that the World Bank's
sectoral expertise and experience insector wide operations and fragile and post-conflict countries
are considered o f value by the client (SIG) and the key development partners, including AusAID,
who are keen for the Bank's technical assistance contribution to the program. Finally, this
Technical Assistance project will provide the groundwork for future World Bank involvement in
a full sector wide approach (SWAp). Inparticular, the analytical work carried out as part o f this
project will contribute to the design o f the SWAp, as well as allow the World Bank to engage in
and add value to the overall policy discussions inthe health sector.


C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

9.       The project objectives are aligned with both the NHSP and the HSSP, which articulate a
strategic vision for the health sector, that is, to improve priority health outcomes for the
population through effective, efficient, and equitable health service delivery responsive to the
population's needs, and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.


10.      Also, as mentioned above, the project corresponds with the first pillar o f the Bank's
Pacific Regional Engagement Framework for FY2006-2009 by assisting the government on
public expenditure management issues to improve the delivery o f basic services to communities
andprovidingbroader sector policy advice.




                                                 5

11.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION
A. Lendinginstrument

11.      The lending instrument i s a Technical Assistance (TA) Grant. TA Grants and Loans
(TALs) are especially suited to buildinginstitutional capacity in entities directly concerned with
implementing policies, strategies, and reforms that promote economic and social development.
The project instrument will be used to assist in aligning health sector expenditures, policies, and
performance in line with the SIG's priorities as laid out in the NHSP. Coordination among
partners is essential to ensure productive use o f funds since development assistance to the
Solomon Islands is substantial and has a major impact on budget planning and development. A
T A L will therefore help the Recipient to develop the institutional capacity to plan, implement
andmonitor the overall healthprogram.


B. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

 12.     The Project's development objective is to improve the institutional capacity o f MHMS
in the areas of public expenditure management and sector performance monitoring.                Such
capacity development would be critical to the overall success o f the HSSP in improving health
services delivery and outcomes.                                                                          -
 13.     The proposed project's progress towards achieving its development objective will be
assessed by a set o f quantifiable and qualitative indicators to measure institutional change,
availability and use o f resources, effectiveness o f the processes and outputs resulting from the
 specific technical assistance supported by the project. The key indicators will include: (i)
completion o f the first rolling medium term sector expenditure program linking resources with
priorities; (ii) inthe proportion o f health sector budget expended at provincial level and
               increase
on primary health care services; (iii) completion o f a health facility survey and use o f the results
to improve health sector planning; and (iv) quality, participatory annual joint sector reviews
conducted on schedule.

 C. Projectcomponents

 14.     The proposed project will provide complementary analytical, advisory and technical
 assistance to the health sector program in three key areas, hereafter referred to as the Project
 Components. These project components are integrated among each other and within the overall
health sector program. The components deal with improving public expenditure management,
performance monitoring, and provincial health service implementation and management
capacity.

Component1:PublicExpenditureManagement(US$545,000)

 15.     This project component will support strengthening o f national M H M S and provincial
health planning and budgeting systems and procedures, building on work done during
preparation so that priorities are set within a known resource envelope and linked to expected
results. The project will provide technical specialists on provincial health planning and public



                                                 6

expenditure management, who will provide specific inputs to the M H M S and strengthen
development o f the institutional capacity in the areas o f their expertise. Informed by World
Bank knowledge, analysis and complementary economic and sector work products such as
public expenditure reviews (PERs), the component will bring about improvements in public
health sector expenditure management, from planning to budget execution, linking available
resources to priorities for achieving the improved health outcomes. Component 1i s linked to the
component 2 below in that sector performance monitoring will provide feedback mechanism to
improve the public expenditure management.

16.       More specifically, this component will focus support infollowing key areas:

(i)      Completing and then annually updating the health sector MTEF, which aligns SIG and
development partner finances with stated NHSP priorities.

(ii) Strengtheningplanningandbudgetingproceduresintheprovinces,includingexpenditure
monitoring to provide feedback on subsequent planning. For both (i)    and(ii), IDA grant will
                                                                               the
be used to finance and oversee the provision o f local and international technical specialists to
advise on this process. These specialists will build upon existing SIG systems and procedures,
thereby strengthening institutional capacity within the MHMS.

(iii) Improvingunderstanding ofthe costsandefficiencyofhealthfacilityperformance, as
well as the effectiveness o f the deployment o f human resources and other inputs to health
facilities. The project will support assistance by an external specialist agency to work with the
M H M S Policy and Planning Division to design, implement and analyze a health facility
efficiency study.

 (iv) Increasing community and household engagement in health care. The IDA grant will
finance a short-term consultancy to develop operational models for effective engagement o f
communities and households in efforts at positively modifying household health seeking
behaviors. This will be in line with the SIG's Bottom-Up Approach to development.              It is
expected that such operational models for community engagement inhealth will subsequently be
implementedwithin the wider healthprogram.

17.       While the project-will not directly finance programmatic expenditures, it will contribute
by guidingwhere the sector program resources are channeled, takinginto account identified gaps
in areas such as pharmaceuticals, infrastructure, referral system, human resources and people-
focus.

Component 2: Sector Performance Monitoring (US$382,000)

18.       This project component will support the M H M S in developing a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) framework for the HSSP covering the key dimensions o f sector performance
(effectiveness, quality, efficiency, equity, sustainability) and integrating M&E into sector
management. It will enable the M H M S to track achievement o f NHSP objectives, providing
feedback through the annual budget planning and review processes so that adjustments in
resource allocation are made to address the priorities. The component support provision o f
technical specialist assistance to the M H M S to focus the existing draft M&E framework on a


                                                  7

selected set o f measurable, actionable indicators, to define data needs and sources, and to
develop baselines for these core indicators to allow the tracking o f sector progress. The aim i s to
have sector policy and management decisions based on better information and also to facilitate
the sector's review process by collecting and analyzing indicators ahead o f the annual joint
sector review meetings. A balanced scorecard will be developed for the provinces to assess
progress in meeting the strategic objectives o f the NHSP. The work under this component will
be coordinated with and complement the MHMS' existing Health Information System. Under
this component, the IDA grant will finance short-term intermittent international technical
assistance as well as the provision o f qualified national consultants to assist the M H M S in
carrying out its performancemonitoring fbnction for the overall program.

Component3: TrainingandCapacityBuilding(US$523,000)

19.      This component will strengthen the management capacity o f senior managers and
provincial health directors to be more effective in strategic planning and execution.        More
specifically, the IDA grant will:

(i) Financethecontinuingmanagementeducationforofficerstargetedatsolvingimmediate
program challenges, such as dealing with community participation in health, streamlining
referrals system between health centers and provincial hospitals and the National Referral
Hospital.

(ii) Financeselectedtrainingactivitiesidentifiedwithinthesector's strategic trainingplan,
which will annually update the MHMS' training needs in response to the priorities and will
specify criteria for selecting trainees.   Support for training under this window will include
leadership skills for senior managers, such as negotiation and conflict resolution, in addition to
technical subjects related to health service management.

(iii)   Support learningevents as part o f ongoing dialogue and supervision o f the operation.

D. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

20.      The project design builds on key lessons learned from analytical work carried out during
preparation, experience gained during program preparation, the recently closed World Bank-
supported Health Sector Development Project in the Solomon Islands, and extensive Bank-
financed health sector projects throughout the EAPregion. Specifically:

21.       Government Ownership - As the proposed TA will be providing an important support
framework for the wider HSSP by aiming to improve public expenditure management and health
sector performance - key elements for the overall success o f the HSSP - government
commitment to develop its ability to analyze and effectively use TA advice i s even more critical.
Therefore, it was important that the TA provided reflected the priorities identifiedby the MHMS.


22.      Institutional capacity - Greater attention needs to be paid to building institutional
capacity to plan, develop, manage, and administer the delivery o f health care services at both the
national and provincial levels. Alternative mechanisms will be explored in order to


                                                  8

institutionalizecapacity as effectively as possible. Providing continuous support inthe context of
a LICUS/fiagile state i s essential and Bank supervision has to be more intensive than normal in
the LICUS context.

23.      Knowledge transfer - The selection o f technical assistance should emphasize capacity
building to ensure that knowledge is passed from the TA advisors/consultants to the beneficiary
staff. This i s especially important given the high staff turnover. Also, it i s important to partner
external technical advisors with national staff, who will own and champion the course o f the
program. While external advisors bring external knowledge, national staff is a substantial
repository o f country local knowledge that external advisors do not have. Therefore, selection o f
technical assistance should be cognizant o f the local knowledge that already exists.

24.      Monitoring and evaluation - For improved sector performance, provincial level
planningand supervision must be strengthened to effectively analyze and use the data and other
information collected for the HMIS system.         Roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities o f
provincial staff should be defined and clarified to ensure the systematic collection o f data and
improvement inits quality while the role o f central staff should be one o f oversight and analysis.

25.       Coordination - Close coordination with development partners to ensure coherence and
complementary partnership i s critical. The Bank and development partners must work closely
and seek to establish and maintain trust o f each other and the Government o f Solomon Islands.

E. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection

26.      Stand-alone Specific Investment Loan (SIL):           Given the very modest financing
contribution o f IDA in the program, a stand-alone S I L was considered inappropriate. The SIL
would have resulted inthe World Bank and AusAID having two separate investment operations
supporting the same health sector inparallel. This was rejected given Government's expressed
interest in following/moving towards a SWAp-type operation; the interest in building
Government systems, and the opportunity costs associated with having to manage multiple
donors inthe same sector, each with its own requirements.

27.       TAL versusAusAID-IDA pooledfinancing model of SWAP - The full SWAPmodel was
considered at the initial stages o f project preparation. It was subsequently acknowledged that in
the Solomon Islands context, the institutional and political environment made the transaction
costs associated with such a pooled fundingmodel onerous and inefficient at this time. The full
SWAP approach then evolved to where the SIG and the key development partners adapted to the
current model of complementary (parallel) financing o f a single sector program led by the
Government and incoordination with several other partners including AUSAID, WHO, UNFPA,
UNICEF, SPC, IDA and The Global Fund. This approach offered a way for the Bank to more
effectively leverage its strengths to make constructive contributions through TA to the overall
sector program largely financed by the Government and AusAID, and allow for the partnership
arrangements to be stronger so that in subsequent phases external assistance may take the form
o f pooled financing.




                                                  9

111.    IMPLEMENTATION

 A. Partnershiparrangements

 28.      The overall health sector program was designed in partnership by a team comprising
 representatives from the World Bank and AusAID working with a SIG preparation team. WHO,
 UNICEF, UNFPA, SPC and the Global Fund representatives participated in various stages
 during the preparation.     While a formal MOU has not been signed by the partners, an
 understanding has been reached by all partners on the need to work together collaboratively in
 the program, consistent with the Rome and Paris Declarations on Donor Harmonization. There
 will be two semi-annual joint development partner missions, with every alternate mission
 designated as the Annual Joint Review. The project will be implemented within the context o f
 this sector-wide partnership framework.

 B. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

 29.      Project implementation, management and coordination - The institutional home for the
 project will be the Department for Policy and Planning inthe MHMS. The Department will be
 responsible for coordinating the implementation o f the Project at the national and provincial
 levels, preparing and submitting quarterly progress reports, and coordinating with the M H M S
 Executive on implementation and progress reviews. With the MHMS's newly appointed Chief
 Accountant, the Department will be responsible financial management o f the Project and will
 also handle procurement through the MHMS's newly created Procurement Unit. The Policy and
 Planning Division will lead administration o f the Project, reporting to the Permanent Secretary.
 Responsibilities for health service programming and delivery are shared between the central and
 provincial levels (Annex 6). Project implementation will be guided by work plans that will
 define the activity budget, deliverables and links to the HSSP. The work plans will be developed
 by the MHMS and agreed with the World Bank. Supervision andreviews o f the work plan will
 be carried out inconcert with the healthreview missions.

 30.      Project oversight - The M H M S executive will be responsible for strategic guidance and
 management oversight o f the Project, consistent with the oversight arrangements for the overall
 sector program.     The MHMS Executive, headed by the Permanent Secretary, will provide
 guidance to the Policy and Planning Division on Project implementation and sector program
 strategy through its weekly and forthnightly Special Sessions, as may be needed. Participants in
 the Special Sessions include other key Departments and Ministries, i.e., the Department o f
 Finance & Treasury, the Department o f National Planning and Aid Coordination, and the
 Ministry of Education. Other key stakeholders within the health sector, such as development
 partners, NGOs, CBOs and churches may also be represented during the M H M S Executive
 Special Sessions.

 C. Monitoringandevaluationof outcomedresults

 31.      Project monitoring will be carried out within the framework o f the overall health sector
 program. Achievement o f objectives will be measured against a specified list o f indicators
 which aim to measure availability and use o f resources, effectiveness o f processes and outputs
 resulting fkom the specific technical assistance supported by the project (see Annex 3). While


                                                  10

supervision missions will review these indicators, the outcomes improvement aimed for in the
overall health sector program will be jointly monitored by the partners-SIG,           AusAID, World
Bank and others-based      on agreed output and intermediate outcome indicators specified in the
core indicators for the sector monitoring and evaluation framework. The program indicators will
include health sector effectiveness, equity, efficiency, quality and sustainability. There will not
be separate M&E systems or reports prepared for each partner; instead, a joint review and
reporting arrangement, based on existing health information system, will be developed to provide
information needed for the respective partners, including SIG, AusAID andthe World Bank.

D. Sustainability

32.       The process o f developing a sector-wide program inthe health sector is evolving around
the SIG's NHSP for 2006-2010 and the medium-term expenditure program that will be
developed to align the resources with stated priorities.             Mechanisms for joint planning,
implementation, review and evaluation will be made operational as part o f the program. The use,
to the extent possible, o f existing Government systems, and the provision of support to
strengthen Government systems will assist in ensuring sustainability o f the investments in the
program.

33.       The sustainability o f the proposed project will depend critically on the extent to which
local capacity i s enhanced and government takes ownership o f the reforms to resource planning
and management. It is acknowledged that strengthening local capacity to effectively allocate and
manage resources and monitor sector performance i s a challenging task, and likely to be
constrained by a lack o f skilled personnel. Institutionalizing budget planning and management
tools such as the MTEF and PER require identifying local personnel and making significant
investments intheir skills and capacity to continue these activities within the M H M S long after
technical assistance has ended. This project's strategy o f partnering international consultants
with local consultants will contribute to this process. Government ownership o f the proposed
reforms will ensure that the local capacity that i s created i s utilized effectively. Furthermore, the
proposed project has a longer term outlook in that it will likely pave the way for more
substantive additional contribution to the health program by IDA. Thus, the programmatic
sustainability o f IDA'Scontribution i s likely in the medium- to long-term.            However, it i s
important to note that the goal o f achieving sustainability in health financing may be threatened
by current and future fiscal constraints faced by SIG. The growth rate o f both GDP and
government revenues i s expected to level o f f after 2008, particularly as a consequence of
declining outputs from the timber industry. Recent improvements in GDP growth have largely
been drivenby growth inthe forestry, sawmilling and loggingindustries. The growth rate o f this
industryis expected to decline substantially after 2008. Given fiscal constraints, it maybeharder
for SIG to hold on to its commitments to substantially increase its share o f health financing
relative to the donors.

E. Critical risksandpossible controversial aspects

34.       Detailed risk assessment and mitigation measures are provided in the risk assessment
framework that was discussed at the Decision Meeting and subsequently reviewed during the
appraisal mission. The overall project risk i s rated high, given the country and sector contexts.
Despite the mitigation measures in place, it i s likely that some o f the risks would be filly


                                                 11

understood during implementation. Therefore, the project leaves open scope for flexibility to
adapt to additional project risks that may emerge during implementation. The following table
summarizes some o fthe key project risks.

Potential risk                     Mitigation measures                          Risksratings after mitigation
                                                                                measures
Political instability inthe        1 RAMS1support i s expected to               1 Moderaternigh
SolomonIslands affects program       continue for at least the duration o f the
implementation.                      implementation period; AusAID
                                     programhas been de-linked from
                                     RAMSI.
                                   1 The supervision team will continue to
                                     work closely with central government
                                     agencies inadditionto political leaders
                                     to ensure continuity o f technical
                                     counterparts.
Fiscal crisis leads MOFT to        1 The Sector Strategy is based o n           1 High
reduce M H M S budget allocation.    priorities and focuses on medium-term
                                     sustainability o f expenditures which
                                     should assist M H M S to maintain
                                     priorities.
M H M S neglects                   1 Supervision missions will indicate that    1 High
recommendations arising from         further IDA assistance will be
technical assistance and analysis.   consideredinlight o f responsiveness
                                     to recommendations from the TA.
                                   1  Supervision missions will ensure that
                                     the TA provided continues to be
                                     complementary to the HSSP and is
                                     discussed with AusAID and various
                                     UNagencies involved inthe sector.
Weak capacity at central and       1   Inthe short-term key TA willbe           1  Moderate
Provincial levels impedes              provided to buildlocal capacity.
implementation and inability to        Givenhighdonor dependence (60
finance recommendations.               percent o f sector), donors have
                                       committed to support through the
                                       medium-term.
Weak fiduciary capacity inthe      1 TA is beingprovided throughparallel        1 Moderaternigh
center and the Provinces slows        support. While this riski s highfor the
implementation and leads to           overall program, the focus o f this
irregularities.                      particular project is to improve the
                                      institutional capacity.
                                   1 The M H M S has establisheda
                                     procurement unit and training has been
                                     provided to selected M H M S officials;
                                      a procurement adviser and a
                                     procurement officer are on board and
                                     they shall be maintained throughout
                                     project implementation.
Disagreement between HSSP          1  Collaboration during preparation, with    1 Substantial
donor partners slows                 joint missions and use o f similar
implementation.                      program documents to guide
                                     implementation as much as feasible.




                                                        12

 F. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

 35.      In addition to the standard conditions and covenants, the following conditions and
 covenants are proposed:

 Conditions of Effectiveness
        None.

 Legal Covenants
     0  Complete the first sector medium-term expenditure framework by December 31,2009.
     0  Prepare and carry out annualjoint health sector reviews satisfactory to the Association by
        December 31o f each year.
     0  Prepare on annual basis a strategic training planthat includes training activities to be
         financedby the Project by June 30 o f each year.
     0  Maintain the procurement officer inthe M H M S on terms and conditions satisfactory to
        the Association for the duration o fproject implementation.

IV.     APPRAISAL SUMMARY:

 A. Economic and financial analyses

 36.       A traditional cost-benefit analysis is not undertaken as this is a technical assistance
 project that has only an indirect impact on actual health outcomes. However, it i s possible set out
 three mechanisms through which the economic benefits of this project are attained.


 37.       First, the project will increase the allocative efficiency o f public health expenditure by
 aligning resource allocations with priority needs. Second, the project will improve the technical
 efficiency o f public health expenditure by providing the tools and information needed to utilize
 given inputs optimally so as to maximise outcomes. In particular, the project will increase the
 capacity o f national and provincial healthplanners to generate and use information on unit costs,
 service indicators, and the deployment o f staff and other inputs across the country. Third, the
 project will improve equity inresource use by increasing the capacity o f national and provincial
 health planners to redistribute resources so as to alleviate inequalities across regions and income
 groups.

 38.       Under this grant, project financing will be allocated for technical assistance, training and
 the efforts to set up a monitoring and evaluation system. Project costs were estimated by
 comparing similar consultancy and other assignments supported by IDA and AUSAID in S I and
 elsewhere inthe region.

 39.       The design o f this TAL recognises that a longer term challenge for the health sector i s to
 improve the sustainability o f health financing. Although SIG has made real progress in this
 regard in recent years by increasing government allocations to the health sectbr, substantial
 increases inSIG share o f health fundingrelative to donors are unlikely.




                                                   13

40.      The fiscal context in which the project i s being implemented i s not highly favourable
with GDP growth expected to decline and recent increases in total revenues stabilising during
2008-2011. An important contributing factor to this i s the decline in outputs from the timber
industry, a major source o f export income for the SI economy. These constraints are taken into
account in the design o f HSSP which assumes a 5% nominal increase in the MHMS budget
during 2008-2011. Moreover, the technical assistance and capacity buildingprovided through
the TAL should leadto efficiency savings andpotentially contribute to reducing the fiscal burden
associated with the health sector.

B. Technical

41.      The components o f the Health Sector Support Program are technically sound and outline
a credible and appropriate health sector strategy, which will be supported through the technical
assistance provided by the proposed project. The design o f the project builds on analytical and
policy research into how best to improve the efficiency and equity (refer to Annex 12 for
background documents). It identifies the leading causes o f mortality and morbidity in the
population and seeks to reorient the health system to giving priority to these.        The three
components selected for the Technical Assistance Project are consistent with the goals o f HSSP.
Strengthening public expenditure management capacity will be critical for ensuring that
managers align resource allocations with the needs o f the population. Improving sector
perfonnance monitoring will be vital for improving the efficiency and equity o f resource use.
Training and capacity buildingare needed to ensure that investments inthe first two components
are sustained beyond the timeline o fthis project.

C. Fiduciary

42.      Financial management. The financial management systems to be used under the HSSP
have been evaluated by the Bank financial management specialist for compliance with the
Bank's financial management policies and procedures. The M H M S finance division will have
responsibility for overall financial management and will be assisted through the appointment o f
international Technical Assistance (financed through the HSSP). Given the low volume o f
transactions andnature o fprocurement disbursement methods will be limitedto Direct Payments
and reimbursement -this will simplify FM arrangements considerably. Bank Financed activities
will be reported on.as part o f HSSP and no separate reports will be required, again simplifying
implementation for the recipient. Financial management risks have been assessed as low (see
Annex 7 for details).

43.      Procurement. Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreements. The
general description o f various items under different expenditure categories are described in
Annex 8. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank project team inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity. The


                                                14

procurement assessment o f the Recipient's capacity revealed a high procurement risk.
Implementationo f the agreed action plan(outlined inAnnex 8) will provide sufficient mitigation
to proceed with project implementation.

D. Social

44.      The positive social impact o fHSSP, which will be supported by this technical assistance
project, is enhanced by its (i)   focus on communities, (ii) to reorient the public health
                                                                goal
resources away from the centre and to the provinces and lower levels o f government, and (iii)
emphasis on improving the equity o f health outcomes. The IDA grant will strengthen the focus
on communities by exploring options to link the supply side with the needs o f specific
communities and to positively influence communities' demand for health care. Efforts to
improve public expenditure management capacity and performance monitoring will help achieve
the goal o f reallocating resources to the lower levels and improving equity.

45.      The project will not be financing any large civil works, so no resettlement or adverse
social impacts are anticipated. In addition, the entire S I population i s considered "indigenous",
and no adverse impacts are expected for indigenous groups.

E. Environment

46.      Given the focused nature o f this operation, there are no environmental issues o f
relevance to the project design.

F. Safeguardpolicies

47.      The project is Safeguards Category C. There are no safeguards policies triggered by the
project.


  Safeguard Policies Tripgered by the Project                           Yes              N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                  [I               [XI
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           [I               [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                              [I               [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                 [I               [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                  [I               [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)                                         [I               [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                   [I               [XI
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                            [I               [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                 [I               [XI
 Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         [I               [XI


G. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

48.      The Project complies with all applicable World Bank policies. Program documents and
implementation arrangements are satisfactory; the Project i s ready for implementation.           A



                                                  15

satisfactory procurement plan i s in place and draft terms o f references for technical assistance
andthe healthfacility surveywere developed andreviewed duringproject appraisal.




                                               16

                     Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background
             SOLOMONISLANDS: Health Sector Support ProgramTA Project

Health Outcomes

49.       Health outcomes in the Solomon Islands are amongst the poorest in the Pacific. The
Solomon Islands i s one o f two Pacific Island countries that still has endemic malaria and has to
deal with both an unfinished communicable disease and child & maternal health agenda whilst
non-communicable diseases take hold inthe adult population. Malaria and ARI account for over
50% o fprimary care consultations and 77 percent o f consultations inchildren under one. A high
rate o f childhood illnesses overall contributes to the highest reported IMR inthe Pacific (66 per
1,000 live births in 1999). Similarly, gains inreproductive health outcomes are proving difficult,
with a persistentlyhightotal fertility rate (4.8 in 1999), low contraceptive prevalence (around 20
percent in the HIES, lower in the M H M S annual reports), and episodes o f high maternal
mortality (estimated MMR o f 142/100,000 in 2004). However, there are recent preliminary
indications that some o fthese outcomes may have started to improve. Findings from the recently
conducted DHS when finalized would be informative on recent health outcomes.

50.       HIV is an increasingly important concern for the sector. Although prevalence in the
general population appears to be very low (0% in a recent antenatal survey), rates in at-risk
groups are unknown. Evidence o f highbehavioralrisk factors inthese groups, highrates o f STIs
-eveninthegeneralpopulation- andtheexperienceofneighboringPapuaNewGuineamake
controlling HIV risk a priority.     Increasing rates o f tuberculosis, which reached its highest
incidence for ten years in2005 (93/100,000), pose an additional public health threat should HIV
infections increase.

51.       Non-communicable diseases are the other major, emerging challenge for the sector.
Staff reports, likely to be confirmed by the recent.STEPSsurvey, suggest that diabetes mellitus
and hypertension are increasing and so cardiovascular disease i s likely to be a major problem in
coming years. Diagnosis o f these NCDs i s late; complications are common; and therefore the
impact on quality o f life and cost of care i s high. In2004, 14 percent o f surgical admissions in
the National Referral Hospital were diabetes related and lower limb amputations for diabetic
ulcers are common.

52.       The extent to which equity is a major issue inhealth inthe Solomon Islands is not yet
clear. Differences appear to exist from province to province in some access indicators, with the
lowest utilization o f health care when sick in Makira o f 82% compared with the highest in
Western o f 94%. Differences are more marked in the proximity o f closest health facility, with
the proportion o f the population living within one hour lowest inMalaita (52%), Makira (65%),
and Choiseul (65%) provinces compared with Western Province (93%), the highest. There i s
also some evidence o f provincial differences in other outcomes, such as modem contraceptive
prevalence rate (lowest in Guadalcanal 11%, highest in Temotu 38%).          However, the critical
analysis o f indicators by household wealth quintile and by urban vs. rural categories is not yet
available.




                                                  17

53.      Although the health system suffered significantly during the civil conflict, the
government has had considerable success inreestablishing services once the turmoil ceased. The
tensions saw sector outcomes deteriorate owing to declining service quality, recurrent shortages
o f drugs and equipment, unreliable public funds flows, and weakened support from the center to
the provincial health authorities.    However, efforts by government-with       significant support
from AusAID and other donors-have         made considerable progress in rebuilding the system in
recent years. Today, some o f the noteworthy achievements o fthe sector include:

    0   Strong geographical coverage o f health facilities, particularly primary care services,
        which is significant given the scattered island geography o f the country. The recent
        HIESreportedthat 74percent o fthe population lives within one hour o fahealth facility;

        Seemingly few financial barriers to care, since public health services are provided
        essentially free o f charge and there i s no evidence o f significant informal payments.
        Although indirect costs are not yet known, access overall appears good with 89 percent o f
        people reporting illness in the last month in the recent HIES stating that they received
        care;


    0   Minimum staffing levels inmost health facilities. Overall, the nurse per capita ratio is
        higher than in similar countries (although the midwife and doctor per capita ratios are
        relatively low);

        Good intermediate outcomes in some key service areas, such as vaccination coverage
        (ranging from 67 to 93 percent full DTP immunization throughout the country according
        to a recent survey), antenatal attendance (reported at over 90 percent), and increasing
        utilization rates o f primary care facilities overall. Recent estimates suggest that annual
        outpatient contacts per capitahave returned to pre-conflict levels; and


    0   Relatively high annual public expenditure per capita on health, at about US$43. This i s
        higher than in other countries o f comparable national income, but should be seen inthe
        context o f the Solomon Islands' geography as it is also the lowest o f the Pacific Island
        countries.

Health system constraints

54.      With the essential elements o f the health system in place, the government has
recognized the need to focus on selected key constraints to sector performance if it is to bring
about further improvements in health and disease outcomes. These constraints, which relate to
both the technical quality o f services and the capacity o f the system to deliver these services
effectively and efficiently, include:

    0   Health service quality is undermined by run down facilities and recurrent shortages of
        drugs and equipment. Sustained under-investment in the maintenance o f clinics and
        hospitals has eroded infrastructure and equipment and compromised the quality o f health
        care services. Also, despite improvements in recent years, stock-outs o f drugs in the




                                                   18

       provincial clinics and the hospitals still occur. Concerns about drug storage and the cold
       chain raise questions about the effectiveness o fvaccines anddrugs even when available.

       Resource allocations in the sector do not align with sector priorities. Public expenditure
       favors the centre at the expense of the provinces, where service delivery takes place. The
       HER showed that provincial expenditures were only 32% o f total expenditure, although
       85% o f the population lives in the provinces. Public expenditure also favors hospital
       services (estimated at 17% o f total) at the expense o f preventive and primary health care
       services, which does not match the primary-health care focus demanded by the country's
       priority healthproblems.

       Weak capacity and inadequate planning, budgeting, and monitoring systems undermine
       theprovincial authorities ' ability to deliver services. The operational plans of the health
       sector are not developed within an overall budget envelope to allow prioritization and
       costing, and monitoring o f plan execution and expenditures i s incomplete. Inparticular,
       the reporting system currently does not separate provincial hospital and primary health
       care expenditures. In addition, the capacity o f management teams in many provinces i s
       weak owing to inadequate skills and training, a shortage o f basic equipment, and a
       shortage o f some staffpositions.

       Staff capacity and performance to deliver priority programs effectively               needs
       improvement. Although minimumstaffing i s largely inplace, staff does not always have
       up-to-date technical skills, guidelines, and training to deliver priority programs. Sporadic
       supervision from the centre to the provinces and from the provincial capital to the
       primary health care level contributes to this problem, as does the lack of an institutional
       performancemanagement system.

       The health sector is not effectively influencing households to reduce unhealthy behaviors
       or to use health services appropriately. Households appear to exercise considerable
       choice on when to use health care. An example i s the 20% drop o f f between attendance
       for antenatal care and delivering in health facilities in some provinces (UNICEF
       vaccination coverage survey).      Related to this is that patients appear to mix between
       "kastom" and Western medicine for the diagnosis and treatment o f certain diseases and
       for obstetric care, without any systematic attempts to bring the two areas together.
       Community understanding o f health issues and involvement in health services are also
       weak, and community health committees, once functioning in some areas, have now
       largely disappeared.

55.      Another longer-term challenge is improving the sustainability o f sector financing.
Donors finance about 50% o f total sector expenditure, including approximately 40% by AusAID
alone, and also cover about 50% o f recurrent expenditures. Although the major donors appear to
be committed to supporting the sector inthe Solomon Islands for some time, this unusually high
donor dependence for recurrent cost financing challenges the government and donors to start to
address sustainability o f sector financing. This will require government to take on an increasing
share of recurrent expenditures over time.




                                                  19

Recent government policy and the National Health Strategic Plan 2006-2010

56.      The government has laid out its priorities and approach to addressing these constraints
inits National Health Strategic Plan 2006-2010. The NHSP replacedthe earlier sector strategic
plan, which dealt with the immediate post-conflict period and focused on restoring health
services and finctioning o f the system in response to the impact o f the civil conflict on the
sector.   The NHSP was prepared through a consultative process involving the provincial
authorities and the central divisions and drew from new analyses o f epidemiological and service
utilization trends over recent years. The NHSP was endorsed by Cabinet inNovember 2006 and
formed the basis for the MHMS's Corporate Plan, consistent with the broad policy directions for
the sector laid out by the GrandCoalition for Change government elected inApril 2006.

57.      The NHSP identifies eight areas as sector priorities and highlights the importance o f a
combination o f demand- and supply-side interventions in addressing these. Its priority areas
include six programmatic areas and two cross-cutting areas. The programmatic priorities are
malaria, childhood diseases, reproductive health, HIV and STIs, essential public health
programs, and NCDs. These reflect the disease and health outcomes on which the MHMS
intends to focus over the next five years and will guide the technical packages o f care. The
cross-cutting areas are "people focus", which addresses demand-side factors such as behavior
change and community participation inhealth issues, and health systems strengthening measures.
The core systems measures relate to human resource development and management; planning,
budgeting, and financial management; infrastructure and maintenance; and organizational
reforms.

58.      As inmost Pacific countries, the public sector finances andprovides almost all curative,
preventive, and health promotion services in the Solomon Islands. The backbone o f the public
system is a network o f nurses' aide posts, rural health clinics, and area health centers which
provide primary health care and outreach services for communities. This system i s backed up by
one public provincial hospital in each province, aiming to ensure secondary level medical care
and basic surgical capacity, and, at the highest level in the country, by the National Referral
Hospital inHoniarawhich provides specialist medical and surgical services.

59.      Management and operation o f the public health sector is separated into central divisions,
based inHoniara, and provincial health departments. The central units are responsible for policy
development and monitoring o f sector performance; human resource planning; technical support
and supervision to the provinces; procurement o f drugs, goods, and other key service inputs; and
operation o f selected programs, such as health promotion and disease surveillance.            The
provincial departments are responsible for health service delivery by managing the primary care
clinic system and the secondary level hospitals, planningand budgeting o f activities, overseeing
implementation, monitoring progress andresults, and managing humanand financial resources.

60.      The non-public sector i s very small. The country has a few Church-operated clinics and
two Church-run hospitals, in the Western and Malaita Provinces, whose operating costs are
nonetheless heavily subsidized by government. The private sector proper consists only of three
clinics and two pharmacies in Honiara. Some non-governmental organizations provide health




                                                20

promotion services for specific areas, such as behavior change messages for HIV/AIDS, but the
NGO sector is active inonly a few areas inthe country.




                                               21

         Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies

                SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector Support ProgramTA Project

 61.        Significant donors to the health sector include Australia and the Republic of China,
 which provides on-demand support. Financing of health activities is also being provided by
 UNDP, UNICEF, UNIFEM, and WHO. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is supporting
 regional technical assistance (RETA) which aims to move forward the pro-poor policy and
 capacity development agenda in members of the Pacific development countries, including the
 Solomon Islands. A wide range o f NGOs and CBOs are also active inthe health sector, focusing
 primarily on HIV/AJDS, reproductive health in defined locations. The table below provides a
 snapshot ofthis support.


             Sector Issue                        Project             I           LATEST   SUPERVISION
                                                                                      (ISR) Ratings
                                                                             (Bank-financec projects only)
                                                                         Implementation      Development
                                                                           Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)

 Other communicable diseases (P);      Health Sector Development       M S
 Healthsystemperformance(S);           Project                                               M S
 Populationandreproductivehealth(P);
 Rural services and infrastructure(S)
 Other development agencies


I
 AusAID                                HealthInstitutional Strengthening Project

 WHO

 UNICEF

 Global Fundfor AIDS,
 Tuberculosis, and Malaria

 JICA

 Republic of China                     On demand basis

 NGOs




                                                        22

                               Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                SOLOMON ISLANDS: Health Sector Support ProgramTA Project



The Project's development            The key indicators will include:
objective i s to improve the         (i) Completion o f the first rolling medium   Outcome information will inform
institutional capacity o f M H M S in term sector expenditure program linking      M H M S management and
the areas o f public expenditure      resources with priorities; criteria to       development partners supporting the
management and sector                indicate successful completion are: the       HSSP on the effectiveness,
performance monitoring.              activities are aligned with clear objectives, efficiency and equity o f resource
                                     the activities are budgeted ina realistic     allocation inthe sector program.
                                     manner and the MTEF is indeed used and
                                      reflected inthe budget discussion, as
                                      evidenced by the reallocation o f resources
                                      towards priority areas from year to the
                                      next;
                                      (ii)Increasedfrom 17%the proportion o f
                                      health sector expenditures on primary
                                      health services andprovincial health
                                      programs;
                                      (iii) ofcompletedhealthfacility
                                           Results
                                      survey used inhealthplanning;
                                      inefficiencies arising from inappropriate
                                      mix o f inputs would be identified and
                                      corrected by reallocation o f inputs;
                                      variations inunit costs and occupancy rates
                                      used to identify inefficiencies inproduction
                                      and reallocate resources appropriately; and
                                       (iv) Participatory annualjoint reviews are
                                       conducted on schedule and clearly identify
                                       the main issues and formulate actionable
                                       recommendations



Component 1: Public Expei liture Management
     Improve resource allocation           Percentage o f planned activities that  Intermediate outcomes will enable
     and expenditure management            are completed increased from 60% to     M H M S Executive to monitor
     reflecting sector priorities.         75%.                                    institutional changes as a result o f
                                           Increased community participationin     technical assistance and capacity
                                           health services planning at provincial  development contributions.
                                           level
                                           Health facility survey completed and
                                           analyzed
Component 2: Sector Perf01 nanceMonitoring
     Improved performance                   Comprehensive sector performance       M H M S Executive and development
     monitoring system.                     indicators and monitoring system       partners will use M&E information
                                            developed                              to assess status o f the health
                                            M H M S Executive malung decisions     program and make adjustments
                                            based on M&Ereports                    during programimplementation.
                                            Balanced score cards for Provinces
                                            and National Program




                                                           23

inthe sector throughtraining,   implemented,                          human capacity development
systems andbetter             0 Self-assessment by trained provincial approach, by linking training
procedures.                     health directors 3 months after       activities and changes o f people's
                                completion of management training.    behavior w i t h institutional context.




                                               24

E


      0
      c-4




e4
E

             4-




r(
E

                   M

                   0
                   2
                   3

     3
     0

     m
     g E  3




          0
          v,

                        13
                        N




I             0

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project

A. ProgramDescription:The HealthSector SupportProgram(HSSP)

62.      The HSSP was designed to support the implementation o f the government's NHSP
(described inAnnex 1) inpartnership with internal and external stakeholders, including AusAID,
the World Bank, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO, SPC and the Global Fund. It represents the SIG's
shift from urgent reestablishment o f health services following the end of the civil conflict to a
phase looking towards medium-term objectives and sector reforms.           It is a comprehensive
program, identifying a full range o f priority technical areas and acknowledging the service
delivery and resource allocation issues in moving the sector into this next phase. The key
documents o f this sector program include (i)  the National Health Strategic Plan 2006-2010, (ii)
its accompanying monitoring and evaluation framework, and (iii) draft health sector Medium
                                                                   the
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).           These have all been prepared by the MHMS and
undergonereview andagreement within the sector.

63.      The NHSP has been approved by the Cabinet and lays out the government's priority
reforms and actions for the health sector over the next five years. The table below summarizes
the linkages between the NHSP and the HSSP. The monitoring and evaluation framework for
the sector is a comprehensive document which contains a.range o f outcome, output, and process
indicators for the NHSP's priority areas.      Given the scope o f the sector's monitoring and
evaluation framework, the results framework for the HSSP - to be used to evaluate progress in
implementing the HSSP - i s a subset o f these indicators agreed between the M H M S and donor
partners. The important next steps infinalizing the results framework i s to develop a focused set
o f core sector indicators which represent the main elements of sector performance that are
measurable on an annual basis and that can be used in management decisions and the joint
annual review process. The expenditure side o f the government's health strategy i s laid out in
the draft sectoral MTEF, developed during HSSP preparation. The MTEF aims to provide the
overall picture o f sector financing and will be the basis for the medium-term budget allocations
andprogram planning inthe sector. It includes government funds as well as all donor financing,
to the extent that donor flows can be predicted. AusAID and World Bank financing through the
HSSP, which together account for about 42% o f sector resource flows, are agreed for the period.
The MTEF, which will be updatedon an annual rolling basis, will allow all the HSSP partnersto
review and agree on the sector's overall expenditure and on allocations, using the alignment with
the NHSP's priority areas as the basis. A key element o f efforts to improve alignment o f
expenditures with priorities is the revised provincial resource allocation formula, which the
MOHrevived andupdatedduringprogram preparation.




                                                 27

                      NHSP priority areas                   HSSP Area
                          People focus                      Area 1: Community Focus
                          Public healthprograms             Area 2: Priority HealthPrograms
                          Malaria
                      0   Common childhood diseases
                          Non-communicable diseases
                          HIV/AIDS and STIs
                          Family planning and reproductive
                          health
                          Health system strengthening       Area 3: Health Systems
                                                            Strengthening



64.      Although the three HSSP focus areas are structured to be consistent with the NHSP's
priority areas, the MOH i s broadly organized along the lines o f provincial and national levels.
Departments, budget codes, and management and reporting responsibilities all align with this
division. Therefore, each HSSP focus area will be implemented and monitored at the provincial
level, national level, or both depending on the level o f the health system at which activities are
implemented. The three HSSP focus areas are described infurther detail below.

Area 1: CommunityFocus

65.      This program area aims to improve individuals' and households' understanding o f
health issues and improve health-promoting behaviors as well as to strengthen community
participation in the health system, consistent with first focus area o f the NHSP. As the area
addressing the demand side of the sector, it will focus on: (i)health promotion and behavior
change communication by reorienting and enabling the M O H staff at both central and provincial
levels to design, develop and implement targeted programs. The program will strengthen the
health promotion unit to develop policy and program guidelines, train staff and implement
community-oriented activities such as the "healthy settings", social marketing, stepping stones
approaches, socio-behavioral research on behavior change for NCDs, community empowerment
for health, and the promotion o f awareness o f gender issues and their mainstreaming; and (ii)
empowering communities to appropriately use the health services, through inter-sector
collaboration,   involving community-based organizations, non-governmental organizations,
churches and other entities.     This part o f the program area will also use competitive grants
process, and the "healthy settings" approach, to engage with communities and improve health
services utilization and outcomes. Other demand-side interventions such as community health
transport grants could be tested for their effectiveness and efficiency.

 Area 2: Priority Health Programs

66.      This area of the program aims to improve the technical quality o f delivery o f priority
health programs responsive to the needs o f the population. Support will be provided through
combination of inputs that are needed to implement the programs at the central and provincial
levels. The following sub-areas are identified, derived from the NHSP priority program areas:




                                                   28

    Childhealthprogrums-Support        development o f guidelines, training and implementation in
    all provinces o f integrated management o f childhood illnesses, including immunization
    against preventable childhood illnesses andnutritional programs.
    Reproductive health programs-Provide         targeted support to improve reproductive health
    services and increase uptake o f family planningservices through: skilled birth attendance by
    increasing pre-, in-, and post-service training o f nurses and mid-wives; delivery o f essential
    packages o f care; strengthening the referral systems; youth-friendly reproductive health
    services; and complementing the supply side with demand-side incentives to increase
    community involvement and linkages, including partnerships between traditional birth
    attendants andmid-wives.
    Malaria program-Support         for epidemiologically sound approaches to reduce malaria
    transmission, such as treated bed nets, environmental measures, pyrethroid-based vector
    control measures, early clinical diagnosis and effective treatments.          This will involve
    development o f guidelines, training o f staff, and provision o f vital inputs such as bed-nets,
    rapid-diagnosis, laboratory reagents, anti-malaria drugs and other supplies. Inter-sector
    collaboration with NGOs, CBOs, and Churches will be fostered.
    Sexually Transmitted Infections       and HIV/AIDS programs-Support            to develop and
    implement well-targeted awareness, prevention and advocacy campaigns at all levels;
    strengthening o f STI treatment, universal precautions and blood safety; strengthening the
    national HIV unit, capacity buildingfor implementation at provincial and lower levels; sero-
    surveillance and operational research; and cross-border initiatives with PNG.
    Tuberculosis controlprogrum-Support         for finalization and implementation o f the TB/HIV
    collaboratiordco-infection policy; strengthening the DOTS service delivery through training,
    monitoring and supervision; provide equipped TB laboratory and diagnostic facilities in all
    provinces; strengthen external quality assurance and quality control capacity for sputum
    smear microscopy and culture at the national laboratory and in all provinces; improve
    surveillance and recording system for TB and TB-HIV co-infection; and community
    collaboration.
    Non-communicable diseases control-this        sub-component will support the development and
    implementation of primary and secondary prevention programs to address N C D risk factors
    (tobacco use, physical inactivity and nutrition); expand clinical services for diabetes and
    hypertension through development and deployment o f clinical protocols, training and
    supervisory support; and improved surveillance.

Area 3: Health Systems Strengthening

67.      This program area aims to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f the health system
by improving its capacity to deliver priority programs. It focuses on the underlying and cross-
cutting health system issues that are critical to translating the key inputs into service delivery for
clients at all levels. Accordingly, there will be two sub-areas:

        Provincial health systems-this     sub-area will support the operational management o f
        national health policies at the provincial levels, through improving operational planning
        and budgeting, capacity building, implementation o f priority activities, supervision,
        monitoring and evaluation, and complementary outreach to communities and non-
        governmental entities. Key to the success o f this sub-area is the provincial sub-grant



                                                  29

        mechanism for channeling finds to enable provincial health teams to deliver the key
        services with the inputs provided by the central level and improving the information
        systems in the provinces so that expenditures on hospital vs. primary health care
        expenditures can be reported regularly. The program will support the development o f
        provincial capacity to improve health services operations and outreach activities through
        humanresource development, including training, systems improvement and provision o f
        equipment andneeded infrastructure.
    0   Nationalhealth systems-this    sub-area will focus on overall policy management, central
        level budget planning, regulation, monitoring and evaluation,           human resource
        development,    pharmaceuticals,    infrastructure   planning,   financial  management,
        procurement and supply chain management. These areas o f support are consistent with
        the essential public health functions, but will be prioritized based on availability o f
        resources.

B. ProjectDescription:IDA'STechnicalAssistance Grant

68.      The proposed Bank project i s a technical assistance operation within the SIG health
sector support program (HSSP).        The component design reflects key areas the SIG and
development partners have identified for firther development o f the HSSP. For instance, the
government has yet to revise the MTEF to allocate resources across the sector in alignment with
its strategy.  Also, the possibilities for efficiency gains, equity concerns, the realignment of
expenditures with priorities, and the sustainability o f sector financing need to be explored. In
addition, the monitoring and evaluation framework needs to identify a core set o f key
performance indicators to measure the effectiveness, efficiency, equity, and sustainability
dimensions o f sector performance. It is with this in mind that the Bank proposes its support to
the HSSP and the SIG through a Technical Assistance Grant that will provide complementary
analytical, advisory and technical assistance to the health sector program in three key areas,
outlined below. To this end, the project's development objective is to improve the institutional
capacity o f M H M S in the areas o f public expenditure management and sector Performance
monitoring. Such capacity development would be critical to the overall success o f the HSSP in
improving health services andoutcomes.

Component1:PublicExpenditureManagement

69.      This project component will support the M H M S inimproving resource allocation inthe
sector, with a focus on ensuring financing aligns with the sector's priority areas and reaches the
provincial health authorities. It will improve national and provincial planning and budgeting
systems to ensure that sector priorities are addressed within a fixed, known resource envelope
and linked tq expected results. To achieve this, the component will provide technical assistance
to the MHMS inthe following areas:

    0   Health sector MTEF - The MHMS made significant progress inpreparing its first health
        sector MTEF during project preparation, with support from the World Bank.             The
        component will support a Sector MTEF Advisor to complete this MTEF, which will
        provide realistic cost estimates for the sector, link these to available financing, and
        demonstrate shifts in resource allocations towards priority health services and the
        provinces.


                                                 30

    0   Planning and budgeting procedures in the provinces - The NHSP's priority health
        services are largely delivered by the provincial health authorities, but planning and
        budgeting procedures in the provinces are particularly weak.            The component will
        support (i) o f the province's planning andbudgetingsystems, based on an annual
                    revision
        stocktaking exercise; (ii)improving financial management processes so that the
        provincial authorities can monitor expenditures by level (e.g. primary health care,
        hospital services) and function (e.g. preventive services, curative care); and (iii)    linking
        provincial budgeting with the rolling MTEF, ensuring that program priorities are
        reflected at the provincial level and adjusted through the joint annual reviews.


    0   Health facility distribution and effectiveness - The M H M S knows little about the
        efficiency o f its current distribution o f resources across primary health care facilities and
        hospitals. The component will therefore support a one-off health facility survey to look
        at facilities distribution, staffing, supplies, and equipment. It will compare these findings
        with demand for services at different levels and provide recommendations for
        deployment o f the health workforce to improve effectiveness o f service delivery.


    0   Community and household engagement in health care - The health system in the
        Solomon Islands does not have established mechanisms for linking the sector's supply
        side with community and household needs for modifyinghousehold's health-care seeking
        practices. The component will finance a review o f options to address this, with the goal
        o f developing operational models to involve communities and households in health care
        services andpositively influence behaviors inusing health care. Models arising from this
        review would thenbe piloted andimplementedwithinthe wider health sector program.

Component2: Sector PerformanceMonitoring

70.      This project component will support the M H M S in developing a monitoring and
evaluation framework for the HSSP covering the key dimensions o f sector performance
(effectiveness, quality, efficiency, equity, sustainability) and in integrating monitoring and
evaluation into sector management. It will provide technical assistance to focus the existing
draft monitoring and evaluation framework on a selected set o f measurable, actionable
indicators, to define data needs and sources, and to develop baselines for these core indicators to
allow the tracking o f sector progress. This aims to result in sector policy and management
decisions based on better information and also to facilitate the sector's review process by
collecting and analyzing indicators ahead o f the joint sector review meetings.           A balanced
scorecard will be developed for the provinces to assess progress in meeting the strategic
objectives o f the NHSP.        The work under this component will be coordinated with and
complement the MHMS's existing Health Information System.

Component3: Trainingand CapacityBuilding

71.      The component will strengthen the management capacity o f senior national program
managers and provincial health directors so as to increase effectiveness at the central and
provincial levels in strategic planning and execution.           The project will primarily finance



                                                    31

continuing management education for these officers targeted at solving immediate program
challenges, such as dealing with referrals betweenhealth centers andprovincial hospitals and the
National Referral Hospital. The project will finance training activities identified within the
sector's strategic training plan. Support for training under this window will include leadership
skills for senior managers, such as negotiation and conflict resolution, in addition to technical
subjects related to health service management. The project will support learning events as part
o f ongoing dialogue and supervision o fthe operation.




                                               32

                        Annex 5: ProjectCosts
SOLOMONISLANDS: Health Sector Support ProgramTA Project

                           PROJECTBUDGET
                                (INus$)


                                         CostEstimate
       ProjectComponent                (IDA Grant) US$
Public Expenditure Management              545,000
Sector Performance Monitoring              382,000
Training. and CaDacitv Building:           523.000
         Unallocated                        50,000




                                   33

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
            SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project

MHMSNationalandProvinciallevels

72.      The project will be embedded within the wider Health Sector Support Program. There
will be no separate management unit as the MHMS Executive is expected to be the custodian o f
the HSSP. Inthis instance the institutional home for the Project for administrative purposes will
be inthe Policy and Planning Division, reporting to the Permanent Secretary. The Division will
be responsible for coordinating the implementation o f the Project at the national and provincial
levels, preparing and submitting quarterly progress reports, and coordinating with the M H M S
Executive on implementation and progress reviews. With the MHMS's newly appointed Chief
Accountant, the Department will be responsible financial management o f the Project and will
also handle procurement through the MHMS's newly created Procurement Unit. Project
activities and outputs will be coordinatedwith those inthe wider program.

73.      Institutional arrangements for support to the health sector program have been definedby
the MHMS, andthe proposed project will be aligned to these. The MHMS Executive will be the
key management body o f the Program and the Project; the MHMS executive is responsible for
management oversight o f expenditures and service delivery in the health sector. The Program
direction will be guided through weekly MHMS Executive meetings, while strategic guidance
and oversight will be provided by the semi-monthly MHMS Executive Special Sessions.
Participants in the Special Sessions include other key Departments and Ministries, Le., the
Department o f Finance & Treasury, the Department o f National Planning and Aid Coordination,
and the Ministry o f Education. Other key stakeholders within the health sector, such as
development partners, NGOs, CBOs and churches may also be represented at the M H M S
Executive Special Sessions.

Operationalplanning,budgetingandprogramimplementation

74.      Implementation o f the        Health  Sector     Support   Program will be      through
operationalization o f the National Health Strategic Plan 2006-2010 (NHSP). M H M S has been
successfully utilizing operational planning in recent years, with support from the Health
Institutional Strengthening Program (HISP). National Divisions and Provincial Health Services
are now familiar with the process, and there is universal acknowledgement that the system is a
major step forward from previous approaches to planning.

75.      The M H M S has started revising the operational planning and budgeting system
processes, in response to the environment inwhich planning i s undertaken (Le., adoption o f the
NHSP, the shift towards a SWAP versus a projects approach), as well as the achievements to
date. The modifications are expected to:

        -- buildup operationalplans instages to allow for progressive approval by management;
        -- streamline the amount o f information that is sent up to MHMSmanagement;
        -- enable budget preparation to flow more smoothly from operational plans; and
        -- strengthen capacity to monitor andreport on implementationo f operational plans.


                                                34

76.      The revised template for operational planning was presented to the National Health
Conference inNovember 2006, and workshops to familiarize National and Provincial level staff
with the new template, and to commence preparation of the 2008 plans, took place starting in
February 2007, inorder to closely align with the budget preparationprocess.

ProjectImplementationArrangements

77.      As indicated above, implementation of activities supported through the Project rests
with the Policy and Planning Division, which reports to the Permanent Secretary. The Division
will also be supported by the newly established Procurement Unit within MHMS which will be
responsible for contracting the technical assistance, as well as the goods. The newly appointed
ChiefAccountant inM H M S will be responsible for financial management aspects.

SupervisionArrangements

78.      Supervision o f the Project i s expected to be undertaken on a semi-annual basis, with one
such review to coincide with Annual Joint Reviews which will be conducted to assess overall
implementationprogress o fthe NHSP.




                                                  35

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
             SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project

79.      The desired outcome/result o f project financial management (FM) arrangements is that
project funds, including counterpart funds where applicable, will be used for the purposes
intended. The identified financial management risk is o f the grant proceeds not being used for
the purposes intended, and is a result o f a combination o f country, sector andproject specific risk
factors. The Financial Management risk rating for this project is low due to the relatively small
number o f transactions envisaged and the capacity building measures in place for the
implementing agency.

80.      The Financial Management Assessment was undertaken according to Financial
Management Practices in World Bank Investment Operations (Guidelines to staff) issuedby the
Financial Management Sector Board in November 2005. The proposed financial management
arrangements would meet the minimumrequirements as stipulated inOP/BP 10.02.

ImplementingAgency
81.      The implementing agency will be the Ministry o f Health and Medical Services which i s
subject to the Solomon Islands Government legislation on Public Financial Management. SIG
operates a centralized environment with the MOFT being actively involved inthe processing o f
budget, expenditure approvals, andtreasury (payment) functions.

82.      The MOFT i s the Ministry authorizedto request and receive funds from the World Bank
andwill retainthis role underthis project.

83.      MHMS, through the Permanent Secretary, i s responsible for authorization and control o f
expenditure. As part o f the preparation process for the HSSP joint missions were fielded from
the Bank and AusAID which provided guidance to the M H M S in the preparation o f a Financial
Management Manual - the current version o f the manual deals specifically with the flow o f
AusAID funds but has been written in such a way that other development partners funds can be
incorporated-the manual can be applied to the Bank funded activities (all be it that the intention
is to rely on direct payment requests). The manual / PIP identifies a number o f capacity building
and risk mitigation measures, many o f which are now inplace, which address weaknesses within
the MHMS. These include:

        Appointment o fUnder- Secretary for Administration & Finance
        Appointment o f ChiefAccountant
        Appointment o f Procurement Officer
        "Audit Action Plan" (August 2006 updated April 2007) inresponse to audit findings
        which aims for significant improvement inlevels o f compliance by M H M S with SIG
        Financial Instructions inorder to ensure future audits are satisfactory.
        Provision under the HSSP for the engagement o f a financial adviser for an initial period
        o f twenty four months to assist with the implementation o f the HSSP andprovide
        transitional support to the ChiefAccountant.
        Agreement with the M H M S to recruit an Internal Audit officer
        Implementation o f Parallel Accounting System pending SIG wide improvements to FMIS


                                                 36

  ProjectComponents andDisbursementCategory
  84.       The project will h d USD 1.5 million of technical assistance in a) Public Expenditure
  Management b) Sector Performance Monitoring and c) Training and Capacity Building. It is
  proposed that a single disbursement category (i.e. "Goods, Consultants' Services, Training and
  Incremental Operating Costs) be used for the project since there i s no operational requirement to
  monitor disbursements against components or expenditure type; control of activities across
  components will be through the AJR process rather than monitoring o f disbursements.
  "Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental expenses incurred on account o f Project
  implementation, support          and management and reasonably related thereto,          including
  communications, utilities, stationery, and transportation costs, but excluding salaries of the
  Recipient's civil servants.

  RiskAssessment
  85.       The table below summarizes the financial management risk assessment for the project.




 1.INHERENT RISKS

1.1CountryLevel

Country Public Financial Management          Modest Frequency o f supervision missions None
Systems                                             will reflect overall weak
Government capacity is dependent on                 environment
expatriate support - Accountant General and
Auditor General are increasingly effective
 Countrv Portfolio Indicators                High   Frequency o f supervision missions None
Solomon Islands has two portfolio indicators        will reflect overall weak
flagged, country environment and country             environment
record.
1.2.Entity Level                             Low    None                               None
The MHMS is familiar with implementation
of donor fundedprojects and is currently
supported through the HSSP - this provides
adequate FMcapacity.
1.3. Project Level
Project Sue                                  Low    None                               None
The total investment is 1.5 millionUSD
Project Comulexitv                           Low    None                               None
The project consists of a small numbero f
TA inputs
0VERALLINHERENTRISK                          Low
2. CONTROL RISKS
Budget                                       Low                                       None
SIG operates a recurrent and development
budget, bothsubject to annual Parliamentary
approval -the TAL will form part o fthe
development budget and i s already reflected
inforwardestimates.



                                                    37

Capacity o f Proiect Management and FM                M H M S has now commenced             Annual joint review o f
staff                                          Modest
                                                      recruitment o f qualified staff and   FMimplementation
Capacity i s generally weak with key                  through the AusAID funded             arrangements
positions being left unfilled - financial              activities permanent FMTA i s in
management has not been a key priority in             place for the M H M S
the MHMS. The skills requiredto serve the
FMneeds o fthe Bank financed activities are
modest.
Accounting Svstems                             Low    None                                  None
MHMS, with assistance from AusAID, has
developed an accounting system for the
HSSP, this would serve the needs o f the
bank financed activities. Giventhe very low
volume o ftransactions expected alternates,
such as simple cashbooks, would also be
acceptable.
Internal Controls                              Low     None                                 None
The arrangements detailed inthe FMmanual
for HSSP are satisfactory.
 FundsFlow                                     Low     None                                 None
The arrangements are simple and follow
those o f other bank financed activities
FinancialReporting                             Low     Developmentpartner consensus on      Annual joint review o f
The requirements are simple but there i s a            reporting on the whole o f HSSP      FMimplementation
riskthat reportingonbank financed                      regardless o f source o f financing - arrangements
activities will become a low priority for the          reports should clearly identify bank
MHMS.                                                  financed activities.                  Interimunaudited
                                                                                             financial statements
                                                        Rigorous adherence to Bank policy    can be part o f overall
                                                       o n compliance with legal covenants  HSSP report
                                                       related to provision o f interim
                                                       unaudited financial statements
Auditing                                       Low                                          Audit opinion on
The office o f the Auditor General has agreed                                               HSSP financial
to audit HSSP -provided that the Bank                                                        statement acceptable
financed activities are clearly identified in                                               providedbank
the HSSP financial statement (including a                                                    financed activities are
summary o f the designated account) there i s                                                clearly indicated
no merit inseeking a specific audit opinion
o n a statement o fbank financed activities
(which inanv event carrv a l o w risk).
OVERALL CONTROLRISK                            Low
OVERALLRISKRATING                              Low

  DisbursementandFundsFlow Arrangements
  86.        The nature o f the activities envisaged and the low volume o f transactions expected
  negate the need for the operation o f a Designated Account. The disbursement arrangements will
  allow the project to use all of the following methods: (a) direct payment from the grant account
  and(b) reimbursement. MHMS will be responsible for preparationo f all WA and the Ministryo f



                                                      38

Finance and Treasury will be the authorized signatories. The minimum application size will be
USD 15,000. Although the need for costs such as training, printing, communications has been
identifiedit is intendedthat these costs are incorporated into the contracts for consulting services
as a reimbursable expense wherever this makes sense.

87.       Country Financing Parameters for Solomon Islands allow for the Bank to finance up to
100% o f costs. It is recommended that the disbursement percentage be set at 100% as it is not
expected that taxes will be financed and SIG i s providing its contribution through its overall
support to the Health Sector Strategic Plan.

Budgeting
88.       The budget cycle formally commences with the launch o f the Budget guidelines to
Ministries inabout May o f each year. The process o f the budget then follows the following steps.

     Calculation and circulation by the MOFT o f each ministry's baseline budget envelope.
     Ministries submit their estimates o fhow their Draft Baseline Budgets should bebroken up
     across their divisions and line items for MOFT agreement.
     Revenue Estimates for the forthcoming year are calculatedby MOFT
     Permanent Secretaries submit SummaryPlans for their ministryto MOFT for inclusion inthe
     Recurrent Estimates.
     MOFT inconsultationwith Ministries prepares options for the modification o fthe Baseline
     Budgetto ensure that it isbalanced and affordable.
     Cabinet considers the options presented anddecides upon the final makeup o f the Budget.
     The Budget and associated documents are presented to Cabinet for final approval.
     The Budget and associated documents are presented to the Public Accounts Committee for
     consideration.
     The Budget Appropriation Bills andchanges to the BaselineBudget are presented to
     Parliament.
     Bills get royalassent andrelatedwarrants are signed to implement the Budget.

89.       An important feature o f the HSSP is an Annual Joint Review (AJR) process between
SIG and development partners during which annual work programs would be agreed and which
would be linked to eligibility o f expenditures (since the annual budgets would be included as part
o f the financial monitoring reports). Timing o f the AJR needs to take into account the above
budget preparation timetable and respect the final approval o f budgets through Cabinet and
Parliament.

AccountingSystems
90.       As part o f the preparation for the HSSP a thorough review of the SIG accounting
systems was made. The broad conclusion was that whilst the basic structures were sound
problems were evident in compliance with regulations and lack of management information due
to rigidity in the chart o f accounts. The HSSP includes measures to counter these problems
through the building of internal audit capacity in the MHMS (primarily to oversee provincial
operations and the national Referral Hospital) and implementation o f a parallel accounting
system pending improvements to the SIG government wide FMIS. It i s fair to say that the



                                                 39

measures adopted are largely envisaged as a mechanism to provide assurance that HSSP fbnds
for provincial activities can be properly accounted for and reportedon - a major risk area for the
HSSP. Never the less the Bank financed activities (centrally procured technical assistance) will
benefit from the increased capacity in the MHMS as a result o f the capacity building measures
built into the HSSPprogram.

ReportingandMonitoring
91.      Under the HSSP it is a requirement that Interim un-audited financial reports [IFRs] be
prepared every quarter and be submitted to development partners within 45 days (this i s in
addition to a monthly cycle o f internal reporting). It has been agreed that the Bank financed
activities will be separately identified in the financial report and that therefore the Bank will
utilize the HSSP reports to satisfy reporting requirements under bank policies.

ExternalAudit
92.       The HSSPwill be audited under the supervision o fthe Auditor Generals office (which is
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank). The FMmanual for the HSSP provides for the
audit arrangements and includes a timetable for the submission o f annual audited financial
statements to development partners(the manual refers to a two month deadline after the year end
which is likely to be challenging, therefore the Bank will use the standard 6 monthperiod within
which to provide the audit opinion). The Audit will be conducted in accordance with acceptable
standards and the scope o f the audit has been agreed (based on guidance included in the FM
manual). It has been agreed that the Bank Financed activities will be included as part o f the
HSSP annual financial statements and be separately identified, on this basis the audit o f the
HSSP annual financial statements will satisfy Bank audit requirements.

SupervisionPlan
93.       This is a low risk project requiring supervision o f bank financed activities at most on
annual basis - however it i s likely that the Bank will be asked to provide inputs into the
supervision o f the overall HSSP program which may result in additional supervision missions
beingrequired.




                                                 40

                            Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
           SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project


A.     General

94.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreements. The general description of
various items under different expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be
financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the
needfor prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Recipient and the Association project team in the Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

95.      Total project cost is estimated to be US$ 1.5 million over five years and would be
financed by an IDA Grant.

    I.ProcurementofGoods(US$O.l million,Grant):Goodsrequiredfortheprojectwould
    comprise o f IT equipment and office equipment
      a.    Shopping:Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may beprocuredthrough
            Shopping.

   11. Selectionof Consultants(US$1.1 million,Grant): The mainconsultants' services
    would consist o f international technical assistance to support the Recipient inimproving
    priority health outcomes through effective, efficient, and equitable services responsive to the
    population's healthneeds. The ceiling for short-lists o f consultants composed entirely o f
    national consultants would be $100,000. Inthe event that sufficient numbers o f qualified
    national firms are not available for effective competition, then the short-list would consist o f
    bothnational and internationalconsultants.

      a.    QualityCost BasedSelection(QCBS): With regards to the assignments where the
            scope o fwork o f the assignment can be precisely defined andthe TOR are clear and
            well specified the recommended method i s QCBS. This would be the case for the
            following assignments: ProvincialManagement Capacity Improvement and Health
            Facility Survey (US$0.25 million and US$0.2 million respectively).
      b.    SelectionBasedon Consultants'Qualifications(CQS): Regardingsmall
            assignments (below US$lOO,OOO) o f a routine nature, such as training, a qualified
            consultant firm may be selected through CQS method.
      c.    IndividualConsultants: International consultants, as well as local ones, maybe
            appointedby M H M S to provide technical assistance. They shouldbe selected
            through a comparison o f qualifications o f at least three qualified consultants among
            those who have expressed interest inthe assignments or have been approached
            directly byMHMS. Inaddition, with appropriate justifications and after concurrence
           bythe Association, individual consultants maybe selected on a sole-source basis in



                                                 41

            exceptional cases, such as: tasks that are continuation o fprevious work that the
            consultants have carried out and for which the consultants were selected
            competitively; assignments lasting less than six months; andwhen the individual
            consultant is the only consultant qualified for the assignment. A total o fUS$0.6
            million i s estimated to beprocured under this selection method. MHMS has
            expressed the wish to proceed with the selection o f key individual assignments on
            advance contracting basis and those have been indicated inthe Procurement Plan.

  111. IncrementalOperationalCosts (US$O.lS million, Grant): This itemwould include
    communications, utilities, stationary, andtransportation. The procurement o f such items
    would follow implementing agency's administrative procedures.

   IV. Others (US$O.lS million,Grant): Training (domestic andoverseas) will be necessary to
    strength the capacity o f MHMS's staff on technical areas, andpersonal effectiveness skills,
    including negotiation.

B.      Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

96.      An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency (MHMS) to implement
procurement actions for the Project was carried out by Cristiano Nunes in September 2007. The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the Project and the
interactionbetween the Program's staff responsible for procurement and other national agencies.
The overall Programrisk for procurement is "high".

97.      The main reasons for this rating are: (a) the legal and regulatory framework lacks the
operational detail necessary for efficient procurement implementation; (b) the organization
structure and capacity i s insufficient, and expenditure control takes place in a fragmented
arrangement; (c) there is an absence o f procurement planning and procedural tools; (d) a
perception of widespread corruption; and (e) the limited number o f local contractors increases
the possibility o f saturation, collusion and nepotism. The following action planhas been adopted:




                                                 42

     Perceived Risk                          Action                              Timeframe
Project implementation  Preparation o f a Procurement Plan              Completed
delays as Procurement
Planning i s not fully
adopted by MHMS.

MHMS's procurement      Procurement Training                           Continuous and already under
capacity is weak.                                                      way.

                        Consultant to assist M H M S on procurement    Throughout implementation
                                                                       (to be caveat inthe Grant
                                                                       Agreement)
Widespread perception   M H M S to establish inthe Procurement Manual   Completed
o f cormption and weak  steps o f the membership selection process and
capacity o f oversight  minimumqualifications for members
agencies constraints to
carry their mandate.
Specific risks:



(i) selectionof
    Weak                M H M S to establish inthe Procurement Manual   Completed
the tenderlevaluation   steps o f the membership selection process and
committees and other    minimumqualifications for members
teams responsible for
decision making; and




                                                  43

     Perceived Risk                             Action                                Timeframe
(ii)Inadequate            Establish guidelines for the preparation o f        Completed
preparation o f estimates owner estimates and other costing estimates in
for procurement           the Procurement Manual
packages
                          Frequently review estimates for (standard) costs
                          for similar activities across the different project Duringimplementation
                          components and locations.

                          Require clear breakdowno f items,
                          specifications and prices
                                                                              During implementation

(iii)BidProposal          Strong verification procedures, particularly in     Duringimplementation
evaluation: collusion     the prior review o fpackages.
between tender
committee and bidders;    Appropriate sanctions against tender
delay inevaluation        committees and others who have failed intheir
process that would        duties or deliberately abused their powers          Duringimplementation
benefit certain
bidder(s)/consultant(s);
proposals are rejected
for reasons unrelated to
the capacity o f the
bidders incarrying out
of the
contracts/services;
False information about
the information
providedby the bidders




                                                      44

 (iv) Payment: fictitious  Provide guidelines (as part o f the Procurement     Completed
 report'supporting         Manual) for monitoring claims of expenditures
 documents                 supportedby relevant documentation, including
                           reports on activities, evidence o f participation,
                           ticket, receipts, etc.

                           Compare price reports indifferent locations
                           giving due attention to actual variations caused
                           byproblems o f access, scope o f activities, etc.
                                                                               Duringimplementation

 (v) Filing: Project       Establish clear guidelines inthe Procurement        Completed
 documents are             Manual on filing and remedies for failure to
 intentionally not made    maintain the records
 available

 Limited number o f        M H M S to conduct detailed market research,        Duringimplementation
 local contractors         which would provide the basis for better
 increases the possibility contract packaging, oversight thresholds,
-oand
   f saturation, collusion qualificationrequirements etc.
      nepotism




                                                       45

C. ProcurementPlan

   98.      The Recipient, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation
   which provides the basis for the procurement methods. The draft plan plan has been agreed
  between the Recipient and the Project Team on September 2007. It has been finalized and agreed
   with the Association duringnegotiations and it will be available at MHMS'shead office. It will
   also be available in the Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement
   Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the
   actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.


D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

   99.      In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
   capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended once a year supervision
   missions. The rationale for this i s the limitednumber o f contracts.


E. Prior Review Thresholds

            0 Goods: (a) the first three contracts procured on the basis o f Shopping;
              Consultants (Firms): (a) all contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more;
              Consultants (Individuals): any sole-source and selected contracts for individual
               consultants (on an exceptional basis and based on a specific request from the TTL
               and indicated inthe Procurement Plan).
              All the prior review contracts will be statedinthe Procurement Plan
              All other contracts will be subject to post review on a sample basis.




                                                     46

1. ATTACHMENT 1            - DETAILS OFTHE PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENT
INVOLVING INTERNATIONAL COMPETITION.

GoodsandWorks.

(a) List o f contract Packages which will be procured following ICB:

None.

ConsultingServices.

(a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.


                                                                              Bank's    Expected
 Ref*                                                         Selection       Review    Date for
  No.       Descriptionof Assignment   EstimatedCost          Method           (Prior   Contract
                                                                               /Post)   Signature
CF1      ProvincialManagement         $250,000            QCBS              Prior      June 09
         Capacity Improvement                                                        1
CF2      Health Facility Survey       $200,000            QCBS              Prior    -IJune 09




                                                47

                           Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
             SOLOMONISLANDS: Health Sector Support ProgramTA Project

A. Economic analysis

100.     A traditional cost-benefit analysis is not undertaken as this is a technical assistance
project that has only an indirect impact on actual health outcomes. However, a brief assessment
o f how the project's outcomes will enhance the effectiveness o f the overall health programme is
provided below.

101.     The total cost of the project over the five-year period i s US$1.5 million. The economic
benefits o f the project are expected to be achieved in three ways: First, the project will increase
the allocative efficiency o f public health expenditure by aligning resource allocations with
priority needs. Second, the project will improve the technical efficiency o f public health
expenditure by providing the tools and information needed to utilize given inputs more optimally
so as to maximise outcomes. Inparticular, the project will increase the capacity o f national and
provincial health planners to generate and use information on unit costs, service indicators, and
the deployment o f staff and other inputs across the country. Third, the project will improve
equity in resource use by increasing the capacity o f national and provincial health planners to
redistribute resources so as to alleviate inequalities across regions andincome groups..

B. Financial analysis

102.     The objective o f the TAL i s to help SIG develop the institutional capacity to plan,
implement and monitor the wider health sector programme, HSSP. As such, this financial
analysis takes into account the sustainability o f funding available for HSSP.

103.      The fiscal context inwhich the project i s being implemented i s not entirely favourable.
GDP growth is expected to slow down from 6.1% in 2006 to an average o f 4.1% per annum
during2007-2010. A major contributing factor is the projected decline inoutputs from the timber
industry, a major source o f export income for the Solomon Islands economy. Between 2003 and
2007, the forestry, logging and sawmilling industries combined had a real rate o f growth o f 23%
per year on average. Between 2007 and 2010, the projected real rate o f growth o f incomes from
the same i s projectedto be -5% per year3.

104.     It is also likely that strong revenue growth experienced in recent years, thanks to
improved revenue administration and some recovery in the economy will level out. Total
revenues rose from 16.1% o f GDP in 2002 to 31.4% in 2007, but are projected to stabilise
around 34% during 2008-20114. The decline in timber industry outputs will affect revenue
growth because taxes on timber exports represent a major revenue stream for the S I economy.
Growth in fisheries exports i s expected to make up for some o f the decline in revenues from
timber exports, butmaynotbe sufficient.




 IMFestimates
4IMFestimates


                                                  48

105.     The design o fthis TAL recognises that a longer term challenge for the health sector is to
improve the sustainability o f health financing. SIGhas made realprogress inthis regardinrecent
years by increasing the share o f government resources allocated to health, partly due to the
increase in revenues. MHMS's recurrent budget increased from SI$87.1 million in 2005 to
SI$114.3 million in 2007, representing a growth of 31% over the two year period. Yet, donors
finance about 50% o f total health expenditures, with AUSAID alone responsible for about 40%.

106.     The decline in GDP and revenues is likely to have implications for budgetary
allocations to the health sector and the goal o f increasing the sustainability o f health financing.
With the fiscal constraints that SIG is likely to face in 2007-2010, the planned increase in the
government's share o f total health spending from 52% in 2007 to 58% in 2010 may represent a
challenge. Part o f the assistance to be provided by the project will be to hrther develop the
medium term expenditure framework takinginto account realistic estimates o f the SIG allocation
to the sector.

107.     Nevertheless, the assumptions made under HSSP with regard to the increase in
government spending are justifiable in this fiscal context. The Programme Implementation Plan
for HSSP considers a 5% increase per annum a reasonable rate o f increase inthe M H M S budget
during the period 2008-2011. Discussions with the Budget Section o f MOFT confirmed that
there were no objections on the government side to this assumption.


108.     Inaddition, it ishopedthat thisTA projectwillleadto the design andimplementationof
reforms that will increase health system efficiency. The associated resource savings will reduce
the level o f government spending required to meet given objectives, and thus reduce the fiscal
burden from health to the government.




                                                 49

                              Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
             SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project

Project i s Category C. No safeguards related issues are triggered.




                                                50

                          Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
              SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector SupportProgramTA Project

                                                           Planned                           Actual
PCNreview                                                May 9,2006                       May 9,2006
InitialPID to PIC
Initial ISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                            November 1,2007                   November 1,2007
Negotiations                                         November 6,2007                    February 12,2008
Board/RVP approval                                   February21,2008                     March20,2008
Planned date of effectiveness                           May 30,2008
Planned date o fmid-termreview
Planned closing date                                   March 31,201 1
Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
MinistryofHealth, Honiara, Solomon Islands

Bank staffand consultants who worked onthe project included:
Name                                                  Title                                  Unit
Muhammad Ali Pate                            Task Team Leader                              EASHD
David Evans                                   HealthSpecialist                             EASHD
David MichaelChandler                 Senior Financial Management                          EAPCO
                                                   Specialist
Cristiano Costa e SilvaNunes              Procurement Specialist                           EAPCO
Apamaa Somanathan                            HealthEconomist                               EASHD
ReemHafez                             Junior Professional Associate                        EASHD
LingzhiXu                             Senior Procurement Specialist                        EASHD
Sheila Braka Musiime                            Legal Counsel                              LEGES
Edward Daoud                              Senior Finance Officer                           LOAFC
IanMorris                                    Consultant, Public                            EASHD
                                        Expenditure Management
A1Picardi                                Consultant, Environment                           EASHD
Hope C. Phillips Volker                 Senior Operations Officer                          EASHD
Juliana Williams                         Senior Program Assistant                          EASHD

Bank funds expendedto date on programpreparation5:
    1. Bankresources:            US$343,293
    2. Trust hnds:               US$313,150
    3. Total:                    US$656,443

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval:                  $15,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:             US$90,000



5The Bank assisted inconception, design and preparation of the overall sector-wide program, even though the IDA
TA project is only complementary and small relative to the size ofthe program.


                                                        51

                           Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
            SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector Support ProgramTA Project


Draft MTEFreport by David Hamilton
Draft Health Expenditure Review by M H M S andAusAID
Report on M H M S annual planning andbudgeting system by David Hamilton
Guidelines for operational planning andbudgetingbyM H M S
Health Status Assessment Report by JTA for AusAID (2005)
Note on Health Sector Strategy: Solomon Islands by James C. Knowles
Making HealthCare Decisions inthe SI: A Qualitative Study
Hospital Services inthe S I- Commentary on management and development issues - draft
Project Concept Note
Update note changingthe approach o f the original PCN
Report from Quality Enhancement Review
RiskAssessment Template
Mission documents (BTOs and Aide memoires)




                                              52

                                       Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
                      SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector Support ProgramTA Project

                                                                                                                    Differencebetween
                                                                                                                    expectedand actual
                                                              OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                             disbursements

Project ID  FY     Purpose                                IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.    Frm.Rev'd

PO89297     2008   SB-RuralDevelopmentProgram                 0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     3.38      0.00        0.00

                                                   Total:     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     3.38      0.00        0.00




                                                      SOLOMON ISLANDS
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                              Committed                                Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                     IFC

        FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity      Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.




                                Total portfolio:  0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment

                      FY Approval    Company                           Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                          Total pendingcommitment:     0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                   53

                                        Annex 14: Country at a Glance
        SOLOMONISLANDS: Health Sector Support ProgramTA Project
                                                                  East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Solomon     Asia 8        Low-        Development diamond'
                                                       Islands  Paclflc     Income
2006
Population, mid-year(millions)                             0.49    1900        2,403                   Lifeexpectancy
GNlpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                           660     1663         650
GNi(Atlas method, US$billions)                             0.33    3,539       1562

Average annual growth, 2000-06
Population("/d                                              2.6      0.9          19
Laborforce (%)                                              3.1       13         2.3      GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                          per                                primary
M o s t recent estlmate (latest year avallable, 2000-06)                                  capita                          enrollment

Poverty (%ofpopulation belownational PO verlyline)
Urbanpopulation (%oftotalpopulation)                         n       42          30
Lifeexpectancyat birth(pars)                                63        71          59
Infantmortality(per t0001ivebirlhs)                         24       26          75
Childmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                                15                      Access to improvedwtersource
Access to an improvedwter source (%ofpopulation)             70       79          75
Literacy(%ofpopulation age 59                                         91          61
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)           97       114         n 2            ---Solomon       Islands
  Male                                                       99      115         l36                   Loilncomagrouo
  Female                                                     94       ID          96

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1986      1996    2005        2006        Economic ratlos.
GDP (US$ billlons)                                0.14     0.36     0.30        0.34
Gross capitalformation/GDP                        26.9
Exports of goods andServiceslGDP                  57.9     59.4                                            Trade

Gross domestic savings1GDP                        -0.6
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                         2to

Currentaccount baiance1GDP                        -2.0      3.3    -24.0       -26.4
interestpaynents1GDP                                                                      Domestic                        Capital
                                                   12       0.6       13                  savings                         formation
Total debt/GDP                                    53.0     414      56.6
Total debt servicelexports                         5.6      4.0      9.5
Present value of debt1GDP                                           44.0
Present valueof debtlexports                                        89.5
                                                                                                        Indebtedness
                                                                                         1
                                   1986.96 1996.06        2005    2006 2006-10
(averageannualgrorulh)
GDP                                     4.6        -1.1     5.0       6.1         4.1            --Solomon        Islands
GDP percapita                            19       -3.6      2.4      3.6          11                     Lomncomeamuo
Exports of goods andservices



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY



                                                I986      1996    2005        2006
(%of GDP)                                                                               (Growtho f capital and GDP ('A)

Agriculture
industry
 Manufacturing
Services

Household final consumption expenditure           67.3
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure          33.3
Imports of goods andservices                      85.5     69.6                                    -GCF             -GDP


                                            1986-96 1996-06       2005        2000
(averageannualgrorulh)                                                                    Growth o f exports and imports ('A)

Agriculture
Industry
 Manufacturing
Services

Householdfinal consumption expenditure
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                                                       01     02    03      W    05     OB
Gross capitalformation                                                                         -Exports          -Imports
Imports of goods andservices


Note 2006data are preliminaryestimates
This tablews producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database
'Thediamonds showfour keyindicatom inthe countfy(in bold) cornparedmth its income-groupaverage if data are mtssing,the diamondmll
  beincomplete




                                                                 54

                                                                                                            Solomon Islands
                                                                           ~




PRICES andGOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                         I
                                             I986    1996      2005     2006        lnflatlon (Oh)
Domestlc prlces
                                                                                  1                                                  I
(%change)
Consumerprices                                 13.6    118        7.2
ImplicitGDP deflator                          -110     0.1        8.3         6.8

Government flnance
(%of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                       39.9       30.3        34.9
Current budgetbalance                                  0.0        3.5         6.8
                                                                                               -GDPdeflator          -CPI
Overallsurplusldeficit                                 4.5        14          4.2


TRADE
                                             I986    1996      2005        2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                              66     6 2        a 3         PO
 Fish                                           19     0 3        66          85    300   T
 Timber                                         30      44         P           19
 Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                     151       185         251
 Food                                                             20
 Fuelandenergy                                                    43
 Capital goods                                                      8                                                            "I
                                                                                             00  01           03
Exportprice index(2000=WO)                             0 2                                             02            04   05

Import price index(2000=WO)                             PI                                     8iEXports        mlnvorts
Terms of trade (200O=WO)                                85




BALANCE of PAYMENTS                                                               T
                                             1986    1996      2005         2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP (Oh]

Eqorts of goods and services                    81     2 0        139         ff4
Imports of goods andsewices                     Iff    238        215         281
Resource balance                               -37     -29        -76        -07        0

Net income                                      -6      -7          0           2
Net curent transfers                            40      48          3          6      .IO

Currentaccount balance                          -3       P        -72         -89
                                                                                    -20
Financingitems (net)                            -6      -2         94         PI
Changesin net reserves                            9     -a        -22         -32

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           30      33         95         0 4
Conversion rate (DEC,loca//US$)                 17      3.6       7.5         7.6


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             I986    I996      2005         2006
(US$ millions)                                                                     jComposltlon of 2005 debt (US$ mlll.]
                                                                                    I
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            77      147       ff0
  IBRD                                            0       0         0           0
  IDA                                             7     29         43          45                    G15

Total debtservice.                                5       8        14
  IBRD                                            0       0         0           0
  IDA                                             0       0         1            1

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                P       19        54
  Official creditors                              7       3         2
  Privatecreditors                                7      -4        -6
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)         3       6         1
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                   0       0         0                                            D:64
Wolld Bank program
 Commitments                                      5      0          0           0
  Disbursements                                                                        A . IBRD                          E- Bllatral
                                                  1       4         1           0      B IDA
                                                                                         -       D. Other nultils+erd    F Private
                                                                                                                          -
  Principalrepayments                             0       0         1            1     C-IMF                            G - Short-ler
  Net flows                                       1       4         0           -1
- Interestpayments                                0       0         0           0
  Net transfers                                   1      4          0            1

                            ec           - = = . - _ e _

Note.This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LOB database.                                                      9/28/07




                                                              55


            Annex 15: Map IBRD 35742
SOLOMONISLANDS: HealthSector Support ProgramTA Project


                156E                              158E                              160E                                         162E                     164E              166E                     168E                170E


                    PAPUA                                                      Ontong Java Atoll

            NEW GUINEA

            6S                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6S

                                                                              Roncador Reef

                               CHOISEUL
                            Taro Island
                                      Choiseul                                                                                                            SOUTH        PACIFIC
                        Sasamungga                                                                                                                                                                              SOLOMON
            Shortland  Is.                                                                                                                                         OCEAN
                                      Luti                                                        M A L A I TA                                                                                                  ISLANDS
             Mono            N e w                                     ISABEL
                Vella Lavella   SosoloG e o r g iVaghena     Kia


                                                 a                       Santa Isabel
                                  Kolombangara
            8S                                      S o u n d                                          Dai
                      Kundu                                                                                                                                                                                                         8S
                  Ranongga                                                        Buala
                                Gizo      New Georgia           Dadale
                                                Hapai
             New Georgia                                                              Tatamba
                                                        Vangunu        San Jorge                               Daringali
                 Group          Rendova       Seghe

                                       Tetepare          Nggatokae                                       Auki
                                                                           CENTRAL                                Malaita
                                                                                             Florida Is.
                              W E S T E R N                   Russell Is.           Tulagi
                                                                                                        Su'u
                                                                        Maravova
                                                                                                 Tutumu                   Tarapaina
                                                                     Guadalcanal           HONIARA                            Maramasike
                                       Solomon                     Mt. Makarakomburu
                                                                             (2,447 m)                                                    Ulawa
                                                                                                            Paruru                                                                                Duff Is.
            10S                                                                           Avu Avu                                                                                                                                 10S
                                            Sea                              GUADALCANAL                                 Heuru               M A K I R A                               Reef Is.
                                                                                                                                      Kirakira                          Tinakula
                                                                                                                 Apaora                      San Cristobal                        Noka
                                                                                                                                                                           Lata     Nendo
                                                                                                                            Mwaniwowo
                                                                                                                                                                             Santa Cruz Islands    T E M O T U
               0       50     100     150 Kilometers
                                                                            Bellona           RENNELL AND                                                                                 Utupua
                                                                                           Tigoa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Anuta
               0            50         100          150 Miles                                        BELLONA                                                                             Vana   Vanikolo
                                                                                      Rennell          Tinggoa                                                                                                                Fatutaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12S
                156E                              158E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tikopia

                                                                                                      Indespensable
                                                                                                      Reefs
                       SOLOMON ISLANDS
           HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT
                               PROJECT                                                                           Coral                          Sea

                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                   VANUATU
                                                                           14S                                                                                                                                                    14S
                               PROVINCE CAPITALS

                               NATIONAL CAPITAL

OCTOBER                        MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD
                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                 35742
       2007                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                    164E              166E                     168E                170E

