Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20237-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
FOR THE BENEFIT OF KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
(SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO) (KOSOVO)
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FARM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 5, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2000)
Currency Unit = Deutsche Mark
DM 1.0  US$0.49
US$1.0 = DM 2.1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAH - Action Against Hunger
EFRP - Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
FAO - Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/ECU - FAO Emergency Coordination Unit in Kosovo
MCI - Mercy Corps Intemational
MTS - Mother Theresa Society
NGO - Non Governmental Organization
PIP - Project Implementation Plan
PMT - Project Management Team
SDC - Swiss Development Corporation
SOE - Statement of Expenditures
UNMIK - United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
TSS - Transitional Support Strategy
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:   Laura Tuck, Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Severin Kodderitzsch



Kosovo
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo)
Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective ................................................................2
1. Project development objective ................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ................................................................2
B Strategic Context ................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........2
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ...............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ..............................5
C  Project Description Summary ................................................................6
1. Project components ................................................................6
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................9
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................9
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .......................................................... 10
D  Project Rationale ...............................................................                                                                14
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ................................. .......... 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .................................................... 17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ..........................                                  ....................... 17
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project .............................................................. 18
E  Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                                          18
1. Economic ..............................................................                                                             18
2. Financial ..............................................................                                                            20
3. Technical ..............................................................                                                            21
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                        24
5. Environmental ..............................................................                                                        24
6. Social ..............................................................                                                               25
7. Safeguard  policy ..............................................................                                                    29
F Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                          30
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                      30
2. Critical risks ..............................................................                                                       31
3. Possible controversial aspects ..............................................................                                       32



G Main Grant Conditions ..................................................                                                                         32
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................................................                                                        32
2. Other ..................................................                                                                            32
H  Readiness for Implementation ..................................................                                                                  32
I Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................                                                                  33
Annexes
Annex  1   Project Design  Summary ................................................ 34
Annex 2  Detailed Project Description ................................................                                                         40
Annex 3  Estimated Project Costs ................................................                                                              49
Annex 4    Cost Benefit Analysis Summary  ................................................ 50
Annex 5  Financial Summary ................................................                                                                    53
Annex 6   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................   55
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................  56
Table Al   Consultant Selection Arrangements ......................                                        .......................... 57
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ........................                                       ............ 60
Table C    Allocation  of Grant Proceeds ................................................ 61
Annex 7  Project Processing Schedule ................................................                                                          63
Annex 8  Documents in Project File ................................................                                                            65



Kosovo
Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
ECSSD
Date: June 5, 2000                                  Team Leader: Severin Kodderitzsch
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman    Sector Manager/Director: Laura Tuck, Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: P069325                                  Sector: AL- Livestock, AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Grant from Trust Fund for Kosovo    Theme(s): Rural Development, Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [] Credit    [X] Grant         [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed terms:               N/A
Grace period (years):         N/A
Years to maturity:            N/A
Commitment fee:               N/A
a Nt  L 1L- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
GOVERNMENT                                                0.00              0.00              0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                          1.30             8.70             10.00
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                             0.00               1.80             1.80
BIILATEA  AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                         2.40              10.80            13.20
Total:                                                    37                 13               50
Recipient: UTNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (UNMIK)
Responsible agency: UNMIK THROUGH FAO/UN
Department of Agriculture under the Joint Interim Administration Structure (JIAS)
Address: Government Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Mr. M. Farinelli, Co-Head of the JIAS Department of Agriculture
Tel: 1-212-963.84.42, ext5671              Fax: 1-212-963-8603                Email: farinelliaun.org
Other Agency(ies):
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO/UN)
Address: Viale delle Terme di Caracalla 00100 Rome, Italy
Contact Person: Mr. L. Thomas, Sr. Operations Officer, Special Relief Operations Service, Technical Cooperation
Department, FAO
Tel: 39-06-557.55.042            Fax: 39-06-57.05.31.52            Email: 1aurentjacques.thomas(ifao.or=
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual        8.2          1.8
Cumulative        8.2         10.0
Project implementation period: 18 months (1.5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000              Expected closing date: 12/31/2001



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project (EFRP) has the objective of helping jumpstart agricultural
production over the next two to three cropping seasons and to support re-launching of the rural economy by
investing in key farm assets (cattle and farm mechanization) and key agricultural services (veterinary
services, and policy analysis and formulation capacity). In doing so the project would support vulnerable
households in targeted villages and municipalities in attaining minimum levels of agriculture production and
food security through replaced farm assets and improved veterinary services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators of the development objective would include the following:
*      Increase of share of land cultivated for agricultural production in targeted villages.
*     Increase of yield levels for crop and livestock production in targeted villages.
Increase in number of vulnerable households in targeted villages consuming adequate amount of
milk and bread according to dietary standards.
*     High share of distributed anirnals and their offspring still in beneficiary households and used for
restocking purposes at project end.
Number of veterinarians operating in Kosovo (ratio per animal and area); increased use of, and satisfaction
with, veterinary services; reduction in number of animal death resulting from unavailability of veterinary
services or required veterinary equipment; increase in artificial insemination (AI) services provided and
used.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: not applicable           Date of latest CAS discussion: not applicable
The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS, document number: R99-178, which substitutes for the CAS in the
case of Kosovo) was endorsed by the Board on October 7, 1999. The TSS identifies an emergency
agriculture restart operation as part of the Bank's financial assistance program for FY00 in the area of
economic restart and private sector development (one of four key strategic areas of Bank support in
Kosovo).
-2-



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Conflict Damages. As a direct consequence of the conflict in Kosovo between March and June 1999, some
75 percent of the rural population was subject to mass migration: some 43 percent of the rural population
took refuge abroad and a further 32 percent became internally displaced. By September 1999, around 85
percent of families that had previously left their homes had already retumed to their village of origin. As a
result of this disruption (and prior months of rising and often violent tensions in 1998) agricultural
production as well as related processing industries almost came to a standstill in 1999: the spring cropping
season of 1999 was largely forgone and the 1999 wheat harvest was a fraction of normal levels (45 percent
of 1997 production). Kosovo currently relies on commercial imports (mainly from Macedonia, Albania,
Montenegro and Greece) and large-scale donor relief aid to meet its food demands.
Farm assets were damaged on a systematic and massive scale in the course of the conflict. The replacement
value of losses of animals, destroyed farm buildings, and agricultural machinery is conservatively estimated
between US$750 and 800 million. The majority of livestock (cattle: 50 percent, small ruminants: 65
percent, poultry: 85 percent) which contributed around half of the value of agriculture production has been
lost or killed. Over half of the agriculture mechanization (tractors: 55 percent, combine harvesters: 75
percent ) are lost or need repair. Many farm buildings (stables, sheds and storage space) have been
destroyed, as have the dwellings of many rural families. While fallow land and the loss of cattle can be
observed throughout Kosovo, the loss of agriculture mechanization and farm buildings is more
concentrated in the western municipalities. Results from a farm damage assessment commissioned by the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the World Bank suggests that the
following group of eight municipalities has been the most severely damaged : Skenderaj/Srbica,
Gllogoc/Glogovac,  Decan/Decani,  Vushtrri/Vucitm,  Kline/Klina,  Peje/Pec,  Istog/Istok   and
Gjakove/Djakovica.
Past Legacies. Beyond the immediate damages of the conflict, Kosovo is also struggling to address past
legacies. The first relates to a backlog on the economic transition agenda. Prior to the severe curtailment of
Kosovo's autonomy status within FRY in 1989, the agriculture sector was subject to numerous economic
distortions over a long period of socialist planning. A system of (partly implicit) subsidies and taxes on
various economic activities resulted in inefficient farm structures by 1989. A majority of small family
farms (limited by law to 10 hectares) were integrated by contractual arrangements with the large-scale
agrokombinat and cooperative sector which provided subsidized farm inputs and protected markets for
primary produce. These arrangements have ceased since the early 1990s. Though many instruments of the
past economic regime have been largely abolished (for instance, high levels of trade protection and active
price policies, input subsidies and subsidized credit), structural issues persist. At the farm level this is
reflected in the continued prevalence of small farm size, little marketed surplus, and low labor productivity;
and on the part of the processing industries in terms of a pending privatization process for the
socially-owned agrokombinats, and often outdated and uncompetitive technologies. Secondly, a 'decade of
neglect' has severely compounded conflict damages to the sector. The near standstill in the agriculture
sector is compounded by some 10 years of neglect. Around the early 1990s, experienced staff in key
managerial and technical positions in the processing industries but also the agriculture administration were
replaced. The new cadre managed and maintained the enterprises poorly. Almost no formal services (such
as veterinary and advisory services) were provided to the pre-dominantly privately owned farms. Access to
farm inputs (such as fertilizers and agro-chemicals) was severely limited. Investments into farm and
processing equipment were curtailed during that period resulting in an aging of farm machinery assets and
the obsolescence of processing technologies. Land markets slid into infornality because of high transaction
costs, compounded by laws that prevented ethnic groups from selling land to each other and poor
performance by land agencies. Two major irrigation schemes constructed in the late 1970s with Bank
-3 -



funding have fallen into disrepair since 1990.
Opportunities. Kosovo has shown impressive resilience based on private sector initiatives in the face of
adversity. Kosovars developed informal parallel structures of considerable extent covering a wide range of
agriculture services such as input and mechanization supply, veterinary services, and processing facilities.
These parallel structures, mnarked by an impressive capacity for private initiative and which were able to
address some though certainly not all constraints during the 1990s, are now coming into the open and will
be a key factor driving the recovery of the rural economy and the agriculture sector. A tradition of private
family-based agriculture, the presence of an emerging dynamic private sector associated with processing
and input supply, and limited reliance on public sector support, all augur well for the re-launching of a
rural economy.
Government Strategy.  Further to UN Security Council Resolution 1244, Kosovo is currently
administered by a UN-managed civil administration, the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
(UJNMK). To assist UNMIK in re-launching civil and economic life in Kosovo, the Bank and the
European Union Commission have jointly prepared a medium tern program for the economic
reconstruction of Kosovo ("Towards Stability and Prosperity - A Program for Reconstruction and
Recovery in Kosovo", November 3, 1999), which highlights as a high priority the jump-starting of the rural
economy. This medium term program became the basis of donor aid mobilization and coordination in
November of 1999.
As an input to this medium term reconstruction and recovery program in support of UNMIK, the Bank in
collaboration with FAO, prepared an agriculture and rural sector note which provides a detailed analysis of
the constraints and opportunities facing the rural economy and the agriculture sector in Kosovo in the
aftermath of the conflict waged in 1999, and suggests a medium-term (four year) program of policy actions
and public investments to re-launch the rural economy on a path of sustainable and widespread growth ("
Kosovo: Re-launching the Rural Economy. A Medium Term Reconstruction and Recovery Program."
ECSSD Working Paper No. 19. November 5, 1999). Based on this note, UNMIK has adopted its own
agriculture strategy based in key components on the recommendations provided by FAO and the Bank.
Objectives. The overall objective of the medium term program for agriculture and the rural economy is to
support major structural changes in the rural economy over a phased transition. The goal here is not to
restore agriculture to its pre-conflict state, nor to return to the pre-1989 conditions. The scope of damages
are too large, and potentially available resources insufficient to allow for a replacement of assets on a large
scale. More importantly, farm structures and agriculture production have, as the result of long term
economic policies, by the end of 1997 shown inefficiencies that should not be restored in aggregate to their
previous state. Rather the objective is in the first instance to support the re-emergence of agriculture
production to ensure minimum levels of income and food security to the rural community at large. The
number of people affected in rural areas are well beyond what can be sustainably supported by a social
welfare program. As consequently altemative, non-agriculture employment becomes increasingly available
again (in particular for those individuals that were forced into agriculture during the 1990s for lack of
altemative employment possibilities) and factor markets (labor, land, capital) restart functioning, the
medium term objective is to reach for productivity gains and structural changes in agriculture and the rural
economy.
The medium term rural and agriculture program envisages four sets of objectives - ranging from immediate
to long term - that would contribute to reaching the above goal. In the immediate term (late-1999 to
mid-2000) the aim is to assist the farming community at large (which represent the vast majority of the
-4 -



rural population) to re-start agriculture production in particular during the spring season of 2000 through
relief operations ensuring access, in particular, to farm inputs. In the short run (mid-2000 to mid-2001) the
objectives of public support (both policies and investment) consist of assisting the re-launching of
agriculture production on a broader scale with the aim of replacing some of the conflict damaged assets
(livestock, farm mechanization, farm buildings, irrigation). This would also contribute to the
re-establishment of non-agriculture employment in the food processing industries which (amongst others)
require raw materials to restart operations, as well as the upstream farm input services. The aim is to assist
those farm households least able to recover from the conflict to reconstitute part of their assets, income
base and food security. Support would hence be targeted to those heavily damaged farm households which
are without remittances, and so lack the resources to re-establish their core farm assets themselves. Partial
cost recovery, mostly of an in-kind nature through sharing of donor-funded farm assets within rural
communities, would be introduced. The support provided would be of a one-time nature with a defined
sunset clause. Establishing key agricultural services, such as veterinary services, and core elements of an
agricultural administration able to analyze and address Kosovo-wide policy issues, also fall under the short
run objectives.
In the medium term (2001 to 2004) the objective of the rural program is to establish the economic
framework and instruments which would support employment creation and income generation for a large
share of the population in Kosovo through agriculture and non-agricultural investments. This would include
the provision of a broad range of rural financial services on a commercial and sustainable basis to support
economically and financially viable investments in agriculture, agro-processing and other economic
activities in the rural economy. It would also include the registration and protection of private property
rights in land and real estate. In the longer term (up to 2010), the aim would be to support the development
of the rural economy towards activities in which agriculture has a comparative advantage and can compete
intemationally as well as the establishment of a broad set of non-agriculture economic activities in rural
areas. Mobility of key production factors (labor, land, capital) and associated factor markets would be such
as to allow for allocation of resources to their most efficient use, resulting in a likely lower share of the
active population engaged in agriculture, and probably larger average farm size. Non-farm employment
both in rural and urban areas would provide altemative income opportunities thus absorbing excess labor
in the agriculture sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Program  Priorities for Agriculture and Rural Development.  Based on the above objectives,
Re-launching the Rural Economy" envisages a four year program (from 2000 to 2004) of policies and
public investments grouped around three themes: (a) partial reconstruction aimed at jump-starting
agriculture and the rural economy; (b) support to private sector development in rural areas; and (c) support
to agriculture institution capacity building. Activities need to be launched and implemented from the onset
across all three themes and hence the themes do not imply a sequencing; rather, the emphasis is anticipated
to shift over time. The program aims to be selective, by postponing public investments that are not essential
to the re-launching of the rural economy to a later stage, such as the establishment of a comprehensive
agricultural administration, a complete public extension service, or land consolidation activities. Also
activities that are incompatible with the sustained development (including fiscal sustainability) of the sector
have been excluded, such as financing of socially-owned enterprises or the pursuing of an active
agricultural price policy.
In line with the above objectives and program priorities for agriculture and rural development and to
address key sector issues (conflict damages, past legacies) outlined above, the Emergency Farm
Reconstruction Project (EFRP) envisages to implement the following activities: (a) support to
re-establishing the national cattle herd; (b) establishment of private and public veterinary services; (c) farm
- 5-



machinery repair and replacement; and (d) agriculture policy capacity building. The cattle restocking and
farm mechanization activities would be implemented in eight highly damaged municipalities (as a function
of donor funding becoming available). The veterinary services component would be implemented on a
Kosovo-wide basis; while the policy capacity building component would be carried out mainly through the
Department of Agriculture, UNMIK in Pristina. Project activities build on the numerous agriculture relief
initiatives in the area of farm input distribution (such as for seeds and fertilizer) currently being undertaken
by Non Governmental Organizations (NGO) in coordination with the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit
in Kosovo and funded by the European Union and bilateral donors. Project activities will complement
on-going farm machinery repairs also implemented by NGOs. Given the experience on the ground acquired
by NGOs and the FAO over the past months, the EFRP will be implemented in close partnership with FAO
and selected NGOs. To ensure allocation of farm assets in line with project objectives, and to minimize
conflicts between recipients and non-recipients in selected municipalities, a systematic approach to
beneficiary selection and consultation will be carried out at the municipality and community level.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project comprises the following five components: (a) support to re-establishing the national cattle herd;
(b) rehabilitation of veterinary services; (c) farm machinery repair and replacement; (d) agriculture policy
capacity building; and (e) project management. Total project costs are estimated at US$25.0 million, of
which financing has been secured to date for US$11.8 million (US$10.0 million from the Bank's Trust
Fund for Kosovo, and US$1.8 million from the Netherlands). The Bank is currently aiming to mobilize
bilateral and multilateral resources to address the funding gap of US$13.2 million. Project implementation
can go ahead in a meaningful way on the basis of the US$11.8 million currently available (the Initial
Phase), as this funding will allow for the cattle restocking and new farm mechanization investments in the
first three most damaged municipalities out of a total of eight envisaged municipalities  (i.e.
Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac, Decan/Decane); as well as to carry out tractor and combine repairs in
some six other municipalities. The available funding will also allow to fully finance the rehabilitation of
core veterinary services (both veterinary practices and public animal health services) throughout Kosovo;
and the agriculture policy capacity building program under UNMIK's Department of Agriculture.
Resources provided from The Netherlands (US$1.8 million) will be allocated to finance the Capacity
Support Component in full (US$0.9 million) and to finance a major share of the Rehabilitation of
Veterinary Services Component (US$0.9 million out of US$1.3 million). All incremental funding made
available over and above the first US$11.8 million would be invested in re-establishing the national cattle
herd as well as in farm mechanization repair and replacement in five additional municipalities (i.e.
Vushtrri/Vucitm, Kline/Klina, Peje/Pec, Istog/Istok and Gjakove/Djakovica).
While the project is designed to address agriculture reconstruction in eight municipalities, detailed project
preparation - in the absence of the full required funding - has focused on implementation arrangements on
the basis of US$11.8 million available to date. The focus on this first phase of project implementation is
reflected fiurther in the subject Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Project Implementation Document
(PIP), in particular with regard to procurement and disbursement arrangements. In addition, PAD Section
C: Project Component Description Summary (see below) provides summary information on expanding
project activities to the remaining five out of eight municipalities, if and when additional resources become
available; it is anticipated that the project activities in these five municipalities would be carried out along
the same guiding principles as in the first three municipalities, either under co- or parallel financing
arrangements. Project preparation activities are being funded through a grant (US$565,000) out of IDA's
Trust Fund for Kosovo, under a seperate Project Preparation Agreement signed on April 18, 2000.
-6 -



1.1 Project Components (Total Cost - US$25.0 million / Initial Phase - US$11.8 million)
Support to Re-establishing the Cattle Herd (US$11.8 million / US$4.4 million). Under the initial phase
and to assist in the restoration of food security of vulnerable farn families and in the rebuilding of the
cattle herd, the project would finance the purchase of around 2,300 heads of imported cattle (this compares
with a cattle loss of some 200,000 animals). Animals would be distributed to families who have lost all
their cattle during the conflict and have experience in caring for livestock, within three municipalities with
the highest incidence of agriculture damages (Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac, Decan/Decane).
Recipient farn families would be provided with after-delivery services (veterinary services, feed
concentrate, artificial insemination) to ensure proper care of animals.
Rehabilitation of Veterinarv Services (US$1.3 million / US$3.3 million). To rapidly restore critical animal
health services in Kosovo, the project would provide basic kits of veterinary equipment to de facto private
veterinarians throughout Kosovo operating out of municipal veterinary stations. On the side of public
veterinary services, the project would equip a central diagnostic laboratory and rehabilitate some three
regional public animal heath centers. The project would also provide equipment to support artificial
insemination services, and a limited number of bulls to ensure natural regeneration in remote locations.
Farm Machinery Repair and Replacement (US$7.9 million / US$3.7 million). Roughly 50 percent of
tractors have been lost or damaged throughout the province. Under the initial phase, repairs of more lightly
damaged tractors (some estimated 1,600 tractors), and combine harvesters would be carried out in five
municipalities (Prizren/Prizren, Rahovec/Orahovac, Gjakove/Djakovica; and two furither municipalities to
be determined). Some 120 new tractors would be provided under the initial phase in the three previously
specified municipalities, as would critical farm implements (ploughs, harrows, etc.) to ensure land
cultivation, in villages where critical tractor deficits persist (taking into account potential repairs provided).
Capacity Building Support (US$0.9 million / US$0.9 million). To support UNMIK in analyzing and
formulating a broad range of agriculture policy issues and responses, the project would provide
international and national expertise to work within the UNMIK structures in the newly established
Agricultural Department of the Joint Interim Administration. Capacity building would include training to
Kosovar professionals. It would also provide UNMIK with limited consultant staff (both international and
local) to cooperate with key minorities. These institution building activities would establish key capacities
in collecting and maintaining agriculture statistics and databases. The premises of the new UNMIK
Department of Agriculture which were damaged during the conflict would also be refurbished.
Project Management Component (US$3.1 million / US$1.9 million). Implementing the above activities in
the current environment in Kosovo to acceptable technical and fiduciary standards poses considerable
management challenges. To meet these challenges, a Project Management Team (PMT) made up of a blend
of local and intemational staff will be established and placed under the umbrella of the FAO Emergency
Coordination Unit in Pristina. The PMT will be supported by technical expertise, and will implement
activities in close collaboration with selected intemational and local NGOs.
Project Preparation. A project preparation grant (US$565,000) has recently been provided by IDA prior to
project approval to expedite preparation and initial start-up of project activities thus ensuring an effective
subsequent implementation. The preparation grant is being used for the following purposes: (i) to set up
and initiate the operations of a Project Management Team (PMT); (ii) to prepare procurement documents
for goods and services, and to launch tenders; (iii) to select project beneficiaries in association with
intemational and local NGOs through a consultative process in three municipalities agreed with UNMIK;
(iv) to equip the quarantine station nearby Fushe Kosova/Kosovo Polje with the necessary installations to
- 7 -



ensure safe holding of animals to be supplied under the project; (v) to define, in collaboration with
UNMK, veterinary laboratory requirements to establish a central diagnostic laboratory and three regional
laboratories; (vi) to design and prepare a Request for Proposals to recruit consulting and technical services
in cooperation with UNM[K's Department of Agriculture under the institution building component; (vii) to
carry out a baseline survey and establish a project monitoring and evaluation system to be applied in the
course of project implementation; (viii) to make logistical and organizational arrangements to manage
deliveries within relevant areas of the province for goods and services envisaged in the course of the project
implementation; (ix) to finalize contractual arrangements with relevant non-governmental organizations to
support the subsequent implementation of the Cattle Restocking Component and the Farm Mechanization
Component; and (x) to provide mentoring and on-the-job training of Kosovar experts, recruited during the
initial start-up phase to contribute to the preparation and implementation of this operation.
1.2 Expansion of Project Activities to Five Additional Municipalities (US$13.2 miDion)
Subject to additional funding becoming available, activities under (a) the Support to Re-establishing the
National Cattle Herd, and (b) Farm Mechanization Repair and Replacement would be expanded in the
following five municipalities: Vushtrri/ucitm, Kline/Klina, Peje/Pec, Istog/Istok and Gjakove/Djakovica.
In each municipality, a beneficiary consultation and selection process would be carried out as will be the
case in the first three municipalities (see Section E7). Estimated costs to carry out these activities
(including associated beneficiary selection and project management) amount to around US$2.6 million per
municipality, of which (i) cattle restocking comprises US$1.5 million per municipality; (ii) tractor repairs
US$200,000; (iii) new farm machinery US$700,000; and (iv) management US$240,000. The same
implementation arrangements carried out in the first three municipalities are envisaged for these additional
five municipalities.
The table below provides a cost breakdown on the basis of full project costs. See Annex 3 for details,
including on costs of the initial project phase.
....*.*.             LI$$M~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .~4Q ....  fn...
1. Support to Re-establishing the  Livestock           11.80       47.2      4.40       44.0
Cattle Herd
2. Rehabilitation of Veterinary     Livestock            1.30       5.2       0.40       4.0
Services
3. Farm Machinery Repair and       Annual Crops         0.00        0.0       0.00       0.0
Replacement: of which
a) Tractor and Combine Repairs      Annual Crops        2.40        9.6       1.30       13.0
b) Replacements of Tractors and     Annual Crops        5.50       22.0       2.00      20.0
Implements
4. Agriculture Policy Capacity     Institutional        0.90        3.6       0.00       0.0
Building                            Development
5. Project Management               Institutional       3.10       12.4       1.90       19.0
Development
Total Project Costs                    25.00      100.0      10.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     25.00      100.0     10.00      100.0
-8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
One of the key challenges of re-launching the agriculture sector in Kosovo is achieving a balance between
rapid physical reconstruction of farm assets and initiating institution capacity building early in the process.
A second challenge consists in correctly assessing the current scope of private sector initiatives (and hence
supply side constraints) in order to complement rather than substitute for private sector activities. These
two challenges are reflected in the project design as follows:
*   Project support aims at re-launching agriculture production at the level of the private farming
community, both for crop as well as livestock production. Support services (i.e. veterinary services) are
designed to directly contribute to farmn production. Publicly-owned agriculture production is not
supported under this operation.
* Service delivery through the private sector will be emphasized. For instance, tractor repairs will be
undertaken by local repair shops and spare part dealers. By supporting municipality-based, veterinary
practitioners animal health services would be mainstreamed in the private sector. While the provision
of new tractors and imported cattle will require public tendering, the contracts with intemational
suppliers will require a high degree of collaboration between supplier and local service providers in
terms of delivery up to farmn gate and after-sale services.
While agriculture is an inherently private sector activity, in most countries, nevertheless, agriculture takes
place in a regulatory and services framework provided by the public sector. Core elements of such a public
regulatory framework will be established under the project. This would include support to the Department
of Agriculture, agriculture statistics, and policy formulation capacities. It would also, critically, consist in
establishing limited public animal quarantine as well as animal diagnosis facilities.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project Benefits. The following project benefits are expected from this project.
(a)    Increased agricultural production. As a result of gradually reaching restored agriculture
mechanization capacity, crop production is expected to restart after the forgone 1999 season. Combined
with providing dairy cattle and improved private and public veterinary services this will lead to increased
livestock production (milk and food). To the extent that higher crop and livestock production translate into
a higher marketable surplus, increased agriculture production will provide the food industries with raw
materials to re-launch processing activities in the course of 2000 and 2001.
(b)    Employment generation. As increased agriculture production will take place on private farms, the
project will contribute to creating on farm employment opportunities in rural areas, providing farm income
(either in-kind, or cash through sales of marketable surplus) and improved food security at the household
level.
(c)     Reconstruction of dwellings and rural infrastructure. By contributing to farm household liquidity
and through improved means of transportation (i.e. tractors to haul debris and construction materials) the
project would contribute to reconstruction of rural dwellings and rural infrastructure.
(d     Improved institutional frameworkl Improved capacity to analyze and formulate agriculture policy
will allow UNMIK to address many sector issues, in particular at the sub-sectoral level (including
-9-



livestock, natural resource management, agrochemical regulations etc.). Project benefits would also consist
in an improved delivery of agricultural support services through the private sector, in particular veterinary
services and local farm mechanization workshops, which should be capable of effectively meeting further
demand from the farming community funded, for instance, from remittances or farm incomes.
eo    Reduced dependency on food aid and less propensity for rural-urban migration. Helping that the
vast majority of the rural population to sustainably earn family income (either in kind or cash) will reduce
the demands on food aid programs and hence support the phasing out of donor-funded food assistance, and
contribute to reducing rural out-migration.
Target Population. The main target population will be farm households which have particularly suffered
from conflict damage and will not recover without extemal support to re-invest in their farm assets. As it is
both undesirable and unfeasible to compensate for all conflict damages (the project will replace only a
small fraction of aggregate assets damaged), a targeting mechanism will be carried out to identify and
support the most needy communities and farm households in those communities. First, geographic targeting
will aim at defining the villages in which the project will concentrate its assistance, then, followed by
household targeting within the pTe-selected communities identifying farm recipients of the assets within
these villages. The main objective of this targeting process is to identify those villages and households on
the basis of their unmet needs, to allocate resources along project objectives, and minimize conflict amongst
potential recipients (see Section E. 7 Participatory Approach).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Responsibility
UNMIK  As the recipient of IDA and other donor co-financing under this project, UNMIK will have
overall responsibility for the implementation of this operation. In the light of UNMIK's limited
implementation capacity, the EFRP will be executed by the FAQ through the FAQ Emergency
Coordination Unit (FAO/ECU) in Pristina with support from FAQ Headquarters. Implementation will be
carried out within the framework of a Project Service Agreement entered into by UNMIK and FAO and
procedures satisfactory to IDA - as is now the case during the on-going project preparation and start-up
phase. While implementation and administrative arrangements (in particular with regard to procurement,
financial management and disbursements) have been designed to make little if any demands on UNMIK's
stretched capacities for on-going project management, UNMIK through its Department of Agriculture will
remain involved throughout project execution. This involvement will take place through regular briefings
and consultations between UNMIK Department of Agriculture and the FAQ/ECU on project progress and
strategic project decisions, and the approval of key project staff and NGOs, as well as on the technical
specifications for goods procured under the project. UNMIK Departnent of Agriculture will also be closely
involved in the design, tender and selection of consultant services aiming to support agriculture policy
capacity building within the UNMILK structures. UNMIvK has also been closely involved in the selection of
municipalities to be supported under this operation. In addition, UNMIK's Department of Agriculture will
be responsible for selecting beneficiaries who will receive up to ten percent of cattle and new farm
mechanization equipment financed under the project.  These beneficiaries will be selected from
municipalities in addition to those already identified, and based on the same selection criteria to be used in
selecting beneficiaries from the identified municipalities, as described in Section E6 of the PAD.
FAQ and FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. FAQ will be responsible for implementing and managing
this operation. FAQ, supported through the FAQ/ECU in Pristina, will implement all project components in
coordination with UNMIK, and be responsible for procurement, financial management and disbursements.
- 10 -



The FAO/ECU was established in Pristina shortly after the end of the conflict in Kosovo during July 1999,
and has since had an impressive track record in executing FAO relief operations as well as in coordinating
numerous NGOs implementing agriculture relief activities during the Summer and Fall of 1999. FAO is
currently implementing key preparation and project-start-up activities for the EFRP under a service
agreement between UNMIK and FAO, funded by IDA under a project preparation grant. As a result, the
FAO/ECU will be considerably strengthened under the EFRP in terms of staff and office infrastructure
over the coming months to ensure efficient implementation in a challenging post-conflict environment.
UNMIK and FAO will enter a second service agreement for the implementation of this project (or agree to
amendments to the service agreement covering the preparation and start-up phase).
Project Management Teamn. To strengthen the FAO/ECU to implement and manage the project, FAO is
establishing a Project Management Team (PMT) during the on-going preparation and initial start-up phase.
The PMT will carry out implementation and project management under the responsibility of the FAO
Emergency Coordinator in Pristina (who is the Head of the Kosovo-based FAO/ECUJ) and relevant
technical departments at FAO Headquarters. The PMT will be managed by an international team leader
and a Kosovar deputy team leader, and provide for procurement and financial management expertise, as
well as support staff. To carry out technical implementation, FAO will recruit international and local
expertise in the following areas: (i) veterinary and livestock expertise, (ii) farm mechanization, (iii)
monitoring and evaluation, and (iv) rural sociology.
To support building of Kosovar management capacity, the PMT under the FAO/ECU will provide, to the
extent possible, for joint appointments of project management positions (with the exception of support
staff) each comprising one international and one local Kosovar expert. The PMT will also be provided with
office equipment and vehicles. PMT staff and of other technical expertise, including NGOs, will be
recruited under the responsibility of FAO.
Implementation Partners
Beyond the partnership with FAO, a number of NGOs will be involved in carrying out the beneficiary
selection process (see Section E7) and in implementing the cattle restocking and the farm mechanization
components at the municipality and village level. NGOs have played a key role in recent agriculture relief
efforts in designated geographical areas of responsibility (jointly agreed upon by the NGOs and the
FAO/ECU) to ensure a coordinated approach in providing relief services. To build on the expertise gained
on the ground by NGOs over the past months, FAO will contract services with a number of international
and local NGOs. During the on-going preparation and initial start-up phase funded by IDA under a project
preparation grant, FAO will contract services with Action Against Hunger to undertake the selection of
villages and beneficiaries in the municipalities of Skenderaj/Srbica and Gllogoc/Glogovac, with Mercy
Corps International in the municipality of Decan/Decane, and with Mother Theresa Society to carry out an
information campaign as part of the consultation process associated with beneficiary selection. This
beneficiary selection process would be carried out under the supervision of a rural sociologist at the PMT.
During implementation it is envisaged that FAO will enter into agreements with four international NGOs
who are on the one hand working in the respective municipality already as it is their designated area of
responsibility or on the other hand have established a track record of the respective tasks as follows: (a)
with Action Against Hunger in the municipalities of Skenderaj and Gllogoc, and (b) with Mercy Corps
International in Decan, to implement project activities which involve training of beneficiaries prior to
distribution of cattle and farm machinery, the organization of the distribution of livestock and farm
machinery, follow-up on asset use subsequent to delivery, and monitoring of cost recovery features of the
farm machinery component as well as performance of the veterinary component; (c) with the Swiss
- 11 -



Agency for Development (SDC), an organization registered as NGO in Kosovo, to handle cattle from their
arrival in the province until their final distribution in rural areas, which would include taking receipt of
heifers and bulls at the airport, transporting them to the holding station, providing maintenance in the
holding station and transporting of cattle to the municipalities to distribution to final beneficiaries; and (d)
with an NGO specialized in farm machinery repairs, such as GOAL to implement the tractor repair
program in the three municipalities of Prizren/Prizren, Rahovec/Orahovac and Gjakove/Djakovica,
including a survey based assessment of damaged tractors and combines, the supply of spare parts and the
management of the payment of local suppliers and repair workshops through the issuance and monitoring
of a simple voucher scheme.
Procurement
Procurement arrangements are described in detail in Annex 6.
Sole Source of FAO Management and Implementation Services in Kosovo. The decision to prepare and
implement this project through the FAO/ECU, based on a consensus agreement among all of the key
players, is likely to ensure efficient coordination between the various agriculture relief and reconstruction
initiatives being undertaken. This approach would also assist UNMIK in effectively addressing agriculture
reconstruction in Kosovo. In addition, a UNMIK - FAO partnership to implementation of activities will
provide donors with a coordinated framework in which to support re-launching of the agriculture sector in
this province. Several options for the implementation of the project were considered, including (a) the
establishment of a stand-alone PmU; (b) implementation through a major NGO active in Kosovo and (c)
implementation through the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit (FAO/ECU). The establishment of a
stand-alone PIU (or of an "umbrella" PIU managing a portfolio of projects) would have required
considerable time (and costs) before becoming operational. A number of NGOs in Kosovo have done
impressive work carrying out agricultural related activities, however, none of them are currently in a
position to manage the proposed project based on procedures satisfactory to the Bank (including
disbursements, procurement and financial management). Thus, FAO/ECU is seen as the most suitable
agency to implement the project. The FAO/ECU was established in Pristina in July 1999 in the direct
aftermnath of the conflict and has since successfully implemented a number of agriculture relief operations
in association with NGOs, and funded by bilateral donors. It has also provided coordination and technical
assistance to NGOs active in the agriculture sector. The FAO/ECU is associated with the World Food
Program (WFP) in establishing an agriculture and food security data and surveillance system. FAO/EMU's
track record to date in terms of its implementation results and the quality interaction with NGOs and
UNMIK has been impressive.
Financial management
Financial Management Assessment. The overall responsibility for the financial management of the project
will rest with the FAO, with primary responsibility at its headquarters in Rome and secondary
responsibility at its Emergency Co-ordination Unit (FAO/ECU) in Pristina . The FAO already has various
teams of accountants to support the needs of the other projects being implemented by the FAO, and this
complement has been increased for the project, particularly with the recruitment of additional accounting
staff into the FAO/ECU. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of the FAO and
concluded that the FAO's financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements
and is capable of producing the Bank's Project Management Reports.
Project Management Report (PMRs). The agreed indicative formats for the PMRs are included in the
Minutes of Negotiations and the FAO will produce these PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the
- 12 -



life of the project. No move to PMR-based disbursements is envisaged due to the relatively short duration
of the project.
Audit Arrangements. Agreement has been reached with UNIIK and FAO that FAQ's External Auditor
(i.e. currently the Cour des Comptes) will carry out annual audits for the project, on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, as presented within the Minutes of Negotiations. The receipt by the Bank through
FAO of the Cour des Comptes' formal confirmation to this effect is included as a Grant effectiveness
condition. The project's audited financial statements will be submitted within six months of the end of every
fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the Grant funds.
Cost Recovery
While a partial grant element is foreseen in providing farm assets to beneficiaries, cost recovery of a
significant share of the asset value is nevertheless envisaged, depending on the type of asset provided. The
administrative and financial sector infrastructure currently available in Kosovo is not conducive to
cash-based cost recovery. Hence an in-kind approach to cost recovery aiming at sharing of assets within the
local community is envisaged. Recipients of project goods would enter into a contract upon selection with
their local community to provide a predetermined scope of use of received assets to community members in
lieu of repayment of the asset received. The community would receive the asset on a full grant basis. Three
different approaches would be introduced, (i) for cattle recipients, (ii) for beneficiaries from farm
machinery repair or distribution, and (iii) for the private veterinarians receiving veterinary packs
respectively. The FAO/ECU together with NGOs working in municipalities will monitor and enforce - to
the extent possible - compliance with cost recovery. The envisaged approaches are believed to be the best
possible compromise between conceptually providing for cost recovery with ensuring that private benefits
are shared within a given community; and pragmatically ensuring feasibility of these concepts in the
challenging environment of Kosovo.
(i) For cattle recipients, field research indicates that in food and milk deficit areas targeted under the
project, the traditional solidarity would lead to a voluntary sharing by cattle recipients of benefits either by
distributing some of the milk to relatives or neighbors, or in some instances providing a new-bom calf to a
neighbor. The often large family size is also likely to consume the milk produced by a single cow with only
little market surplus being generated. Families receiving cattle under the project and their respective
community will be informed that the second off-spring is expected to be made available by the recipient
family to the community for allocation to other families in need within the community. The described
approach of sharing of asset within a larger family and community context is an acceptable mechanism of
partial in-kind cost recovery based on social cohesion within the community. It is recognized, however, that
this type of cost recovery is clearly not enforceable from outside the local community and relies on social
control.
(ii) In the case of farm machinery, a 50% in-kind cost recovery is expected from the beneficiary (which is
equivalent to 100% cost recovery of the currently used 'IMT'-type tractors). Cost recovery on the asset
value of the new tractor and set of implements will be provided by the primary beneficiary (i.e. the actual
recipient of tractor and imnplements) carrying out cultivation operations for a group of secondary
beneficiaries within a given village. This cultivation will be carried out without payment, except that the
secondary beneficiaries will provide fuel for the tractor. It is important that the correct balance is struck
between the primary beneficiary's ability to earn an income from his machinery and his non-income
generating cost recovery obligations to the secondary beneficiaries. On the one hand, if the cost recovery
target is set too low, secondary beneficiaries will forgo the full potential benefit of the new machinery
supplied under the project. On the other hand, if the cost recovery target is set too high, the primary
- 13-



beneficiary may fail to voluntarily share assets because such sharing will unduly compete with income to
be earned from rental services to be potentially undertaken with the new equipment. The proposed level of
cost recovery is to ensure cultivation on 15 hectares of secondary beneficiary land per season (based on one
ploughing and two harrowing operations) for the first four cultivation seasons that is, 60 ha over the first
two years. Additional cost recovery is requested from the primary beneficiary in providing his tractor and
trailer for six days per year (for the first two years) for haulage tasks for the general benefit of the
community; details of these latter sharing obligations would be decided on by the village committee, while
fuel would be provided by the community for use of tractors).
(iii) Private veterinarians receiving basic veterinary equipment and drugs under the project would be
expected to partially reimburse in-kind the costs associated with this equipment. The capital contribution to
equipment, veterinary drugs, artificial insemnination equipment and bovine semen to private practices in all
municipalities will have a repayment in kind condition of 30% of the asset value through the provision of
free veterinary visits and artificial insemination to non-project farmers. This will provide an estimated 250
farmers per municipality with free veterinary visits and inseminations to non project cattle and general
livestock. Veterinary practices will be required to enter into formal contracts stipulating the above
aforementioned obligations upon delivery of the equipment and goods. Distribution of veterinary drugs to
veterinary practitioners will take place in two tranches; distribution of the second tranche of drugs is
conditional on the veterinarian demonstrating satisfactory performance, including provision of quality
service to remotely located and poor farmers. Compliance of these obligations will be monitored by NGOs
working in the project municipalities and by the FAO/ECU in municipalities in which NGOs do not
operate.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Replacement of confict-damaged assets. The following alternatives had been considered with regard to
repair and replacement of conflict-damaged assets: (a) line of credit to the farming community; (b) line of
credit to input suppliers; (c) cash transfers to farming population; (d) compensation for conflict damages;
and (e) voucher distribution to selected beneficiaries. In the absence of a functioning financial sector (i.e.
absence of financial intermediaries in rural areas, and a nascent financial sector regulatory framework) at
the time of project preparation and appraisal a line of credit operation either to the farming community or
to tractor or other farm dealers could not be implemented. In addition, the project aims to meet specific
criteria in the allocation of assets to selected beneficiaries which could not have been achieved using a
market based rationing mechanism (i.e. market interest rates). A line of credit to farm traders may have
relieved supply side constraints but would not have provided liquidity to farmers and associated purchasing
power to increase effective demand at the farm level. The latter would have been addressed with cash or
voucher transfers to farm households, however, accountability concerns on the part of donors for the use of
scarce funds and security issues in the absence of a payment system in Kosovo have excluded this
approach. Compensating all rural households along the lines of an insurance indemnity for conflict-related
damages to farm assets as a fixed percentage of aggregate donor resources over aggregate farm damages
was also considered. While such an approach would have provided all farmers with a uniform percentage
compensation (in the range of 5 - 15 percent of damages given limited donor resources anticipated and high
cumulative damages to the sector), it would have been highly inequitable as farmers with large amounts of
pre-conflict assets would have received higher absolute compensation (though they may well have sufficient
assets remaining to re-launch farming activities) than those with a smaller asset base (assuming the same
conflict-damage incidence). The outcome would have provided many smaller farm households with cash or
voucher-equivalents of a small fraction of a cow or a tractor. The latter, more of a one-time welfare nature,
-14-



would not have provided the resources required to re-start a livelihood to those who do not have the means
to otherwise do so.
Re-launching veterinary services. One option considered was to re-integrate the staff and the assets of
the 28 (dilapidated) veterinary stations into the public sector to ensure public provision of disease control
and curative veterinary services. By re-integrating this staff into formal public veterinary services, the
project would have put onto the public payroll activities that are now being provided privately. A small
core of public veterinary staff will be supported, however, to operate an animal disease diagnostic center
and administer public vaccination campaigns that will be contracted in the future to the network of private
veterinarians.
Vouchers. For the following goods a voucher-based svstem was considered for introduction under the
Emergency Farm Reconstruction project: (1) farm inputs; (2) cattle after-delivery services: veterinary
services and animal feed; (3) tractor spare parts and repair services; and (4) generic farm implements.
Vouchers are commonly used in social assistance programs, and have been successfully associated with
farm inputs (fertilizer, seeds, fuel) in Romania. In addition, many elements needed for a potential
introduction of a voucher based system seem to be in place in Kosovo. The printing, distribution and
redemption of vouchers may well have been feasible, and farmers and traders are not unfamiliar with the
concept of vouchers as they were used in earlier times in Kosovo for state enterprise workers. However, the
experience with vouchers in a post-conflict is very limnited. Moreover, in Kosovo this proposal has finally
been abandoned, because there was no assurance that goods would be available at competitive prices, as is
the case in an open, public bidding processes.
Input supplies and rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. At the project identification stage,
provision of farm inputs, as well as rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure was proposed. The former
option was discarded given the broad scope of NGO implemented activities in providing farm inputs in the
context of their relief operations, and concems associated with a possible growding out of local, private
sector initiatives in this field. The latter was rejected due to concerns associated with project complexity,
unclear priority for irrigation rehabilitation early during post-conflict reconstruction, and the considerable
institutional requirements in terms of reforming water enterprises and establishing water user associations
to ensure sustainability of irrigation investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bosnia and Herzegovina              S              S
Emergency Farn
Reconstruction Project
(1996-1998)
Yugoslavia Metohija I                              S
Multipurpose Project
Other development agencies.
See Table 3 below                                                            . . ..
- 15 -



IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Table 3: Major related projects financed by other development agencies
Activity            Funding   Status                   Donor
[USS M]
Agriculture Relief Operations    $23.4
Fertilizer Distribution           $2.1    on-going  Netherlands, Finland through FAO
$8.0   identified  EU
Seed Distribution and Multiplication  $3.5    on-going  Netherlands, Italy, Luxemburg through FAO
$1.2    on-going  Finland
Animal feed distribution          $2.9    on-going  EU through FAO
Farm Mechanization Repairs        $2.8    on-going  Sweden, Luxemburg through FAO
Livestock Vaccination             $1.0    on-going  USA through FAO
Cattle Supply                     $1.3   completed Switzerland
Food Safetey Surveillance         $0.6    on-going  USA through FAO/NFP
A&roenterprise SupPort            $8.8
TA to input dealers and professional    $0.8    on-going  USA through IFDC
associations                      $4.0   appraised USA through IFDC
Agroenterprise Restructuring      $4.0   identified EU
Rural Finance                     $2.0
Micro Credit Scheme               $2.0   appraised EU, France
Cooperative Develooment           $1.5   appraised France
Forest Manaaement                 $1.3    on-going  Norway through FAO
Note: While the above is not an exhaustive list, major donor supported operations are covered
as reported by UNMIK
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Many lessons of the successful Emergency Farrn Reconstruction Project in Bosnia (1997 - 1998) (Bosnia
and Herzegovina: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project. Implementation Completion Report. June 1998) are
reflected in this operation. Similar activities (livestock, farm mechanization, veterinary support activities)
were also undertaken under the agriculture component of the Emergency Reconstruction Project in Croatia
(1995 - 1997).  A first lesson is that simplicity of design is an important element in successful
implementation of an emergency reconstruction project. Second, if full cost recovery is not feasible partial
grant-based support explained up-front to recipients is preferable to the moral hazard created by
unenforceable credit arrangements. T     technical lessons have been learned from the Bosnia experience:
imported sheep and, in particular, goats experienced serious adaptation problems and are therefore
excluded from the operation in Kosovo. Similarly, smaller motorcultivators and associated attachments
distributed under the project in Bosnia proved to be in low demand; in addition an agriculture damage and
needs assessment survey confirmed little interest in motorcultivators; as a consequence, this type of
equipment will also not be provided under the EFRP in Kosovo. Fourth, compliance with beneficiary
selection criteria established under the mentioned project in Bosnia was poor as the selection process was
carried out by the regional public administration which tended to allocate on the basis of political rather
than technical/social criteria. In the case of the operation in Kosovo, a transparent and systematic
consultation process with community level participation and numerous checks and balances will help
contribute to minimizing errors of inclusion or exclusion. Beyond the immediate implementation lessons
associated with the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project in Bosnia, an overall retrospective of the
Bosnia post-conflict experience [Bosnia and Herzegovina: 1996 - 1998 Lessons and Accomplishments. World
Bank. 1999.] indicates that key for re-launching economic activities consists of addressing developmental
and institutional issues up front, beyond striving for mere and immediate physical reconstruction targets.
The Kosovo EFRP aims at doing so by including private sector (in particular veterinary services) and
capacity building elements (UNMIK Department of Agriculture) into the design.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UNMIK has repeatedly indicated that agriculture development is clearly a high priority on its post-conflict
reconstruction agenda in Kosovo. In the absence of sufficient capacity to implement projects of complexity
within UNMIK, the implementation of this operation through FAO and the FAO/Emergency Coordination
Unit finds broad acceptance at UNMIK. The technical assistance provided directly to UNMIK in support
of its newly established and co-administered agriculture department is very much welcomed. Project
ownership on the part of Kosovars is harder to gauge with certainty. During the course of Bank missions,
visits to various organizations (self-appointed shadow 'administration', the faculty of agriculture, etc.) and
an informal seminar gathering key Kosovar interests in the agriculture sector in September 1999 was
undertaken to exchange views between professionals associated with agriculture. Feedback during the
mentioned consultations have indicated broad support for the EFRP.
- 17-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank adds value to rural development and re-launching the agriculture sector by having prepared and
developed a comprehensive medium tern reconstruction framework which addresses policy as well as
public investment issues, together with a key partner in this field, the FAO. This proposed project prepared
jointly by FAO and the Bank, takes key elements of the mentioned medium-tenn reconstruction franework
and translates these elements into an operational concept. By providing a framework, together with the
required implementation arrangements, the Bank anticipates to leverage additional donor co-financing that
otherwise would not have been available. The Bank has also been instrumental in forging a partnership
between UNMINK and FAO under this operation. In addition, in the course of project implementation the
Bank will provide managerial and technical input during project implementation in its project supervisory
capacity - which has proven to be an irnportant element of project success in the case of the Emergency
Farm Reconstruction Project in Bosnia.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$3.6 million; ERR = 21 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
In the absence of detailed agronomic data that reflect current farming practices, cropping patterns, farm
asset use, etc. only a simple quantitative economic analysis has been carried out aiming to reflect main
costs and benefits associated with this project. The assumptions used for the analysis are presented in
Annex 4 and are considered to be conservative. The analysis is carried out on the basis of the initial project
phase implemented in the three most damaged municipalities (i.e. US$12.2 rnillion). Project activities in
these three municipalities (including province-wide rehabilitation of veterinary services, and capacity
building of the Agriculture Department) will benefit a estimated 12,000 families (refer to Table 4). Around
five-thousand households will directly benefit as primary or secondary beneficiaries from the cattle
restocking and farm mechanization activities. A further estimated 7,000 households will benefit from
improved veterinary services provided. Each additional municipality included under the EFRP would
increase the number of beneficiaries by a further estimated 1,700 families.
- 18 -



Table 4:      Number of Beneficiaries (based on three initial municipalities)
Project Activities              Number of Beneficiaries
I Livestock and New Machinery
Cattle Restocking                                         2,300
Tractors/ Implements (primary beneficiaries)                120
Tractor service recipients (15 per tractor - secondary    1,800
beneficiaries)
Subtotal                                                  4,220
11 Tractor Repairs
Repair Services                                             800
Subtotal                                                  5,020
III Veterinarians
Veterinarians receiving veterinary packs                     28
Beneficiaries of veterinary in-kind cost recovery         7,000
Total                                                    12,048
The main benefits and costs associated with the project have been considered in the economic analysis.
These are the benefits and costs associated to (a) increased crop production through the supply of new and
the repair of broken machinery and (b) increased milk production and production of offspring. However,
there are more benefits of the project which have not been included in the analysis as they are either very
limited in scope or difficult to quantify. These benefits are the veterinary component (the component is only
considered to the extent to which it provides services to the distributed cows), the capacity building
component and the conduction of community services as part of the cost recovery scheme of the machinery
component. In the following the assumption for the cost-benefit analysis are presented. the calculation
present a very conservative assumption on quantities and prices. The Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated
at around US$3.6 million (over a ten years period discounted at an opportunity cost of capital assumed at
10 percent), while the Intemal Rate of Retum is estimated at around 21 percent.
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Machinery Component:
*   The replaced assets will result in a one-time, incremental 5,400 ha being cultivated annually. An
additional 1,800 ha of cultivated land per year can be expected for every additional supported
municipality (45 ha per tractor per year).
* The machinery repair component is expected to repair around 800 tractors in three municipalities
resulting in a fiurther, one-time incremental 24,000 ha that can be cultivated annually (30 ha per tractor
- lower than for new machinery as productivity of machines is lower).
*   It is assumed that the additional area will be planted with winter and summer grains at an average yield
of 3 tons per hectare (average yield in Kosovo) at an average price of US$105 per ton. The price
represent a world market price forecast for the upcoming 2000 harvesting season adjusted for transport
- 19 -



and insurance.
* The production costs (including farm inputs, fuel and routine machinery maintenance, labor) for grain
have been assumed to be around 90% of their value of production.
Livestock Component:
* The livestock component will give direct benefits to 2,300 farm households who lost all their cattle.
The component has two benefits: (i) the availability of milk and (ii) the cow and its offspring. The
increased availability of milk will directly improve the diet of the more vulnerable households. The cow
and the calf enable households to restart livestock production who would not be able to do so
otherwise. Access milk, if marketed, creates an additional income source for the family.
* The reproductive rate of a cow has conservatively been assumed to be 1.3. This takes possible fertility
problems of cows living in a difficult environment into consideration. A (higher than anticipated)
mortality rate of 10% is assumed.
* It is assumed that 50% of the off-spring are female. The female calves give birth to their first calf and
provide milk at the age of around 24 months. Male calves are sold immediately upon birth - and hence
valued for the purpose of this analysis - at a price of US$200. Female calves are kept for re-breeding,
contributing to the build-up of the cattle herd.
*   The cows are assumed to produce 2,500 liters of milk on average per year. The economic value of milk
is estimated at around US$0.25 per liter.
* The off-spring is assumed to consume 1,000 liter per calf annually (5 liter over 200 days). Besides
rooming on pasture (no economic costs have been imputed), the cows are additionally fed with hey and
concentrate (US$150 annually).
* The investment costs consist of the cost of the farm machinery repairs and replacements, the cost of
providing livestock, and the cost of rehabilitating and providing veterinary services in three
municipalities (US$8.6 million)
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
In the absence of quantitative data reflecting agronomic practices, farm asset use, cropping pattern, etc. and
given the emergency nature of this operation, no quantitative financial analysis, based, for instance, on
farm models, is provided. Cost recovery levels have been established such that farm mechanization and
veterinary services will be provided to the community while at the same time allowing a reasonable return
to owners; see Annex 5 for details.
Fiscal Impact:
All costs associated with the implementation of the activities envisaged under this operation will be donor
financed, and as such UNMIIK will not contribute financially to this operation. Public recurrent costs after
the project are associated with operating (i) a small public veterinary service (diagnostic laboratory, three
regional centers) and (ii) the Agriculture Department (though no additional permanent staff will be
provided under the project over and above the personnel that UNMIK currently envisages. The former are
-20 -



incremental costs associated with this project, while the latter is already funded by UNMIK. Overall,
incremental public recurrent costs associated with this operation are low and sustainable.
3. Technical:
The technical approaches suggested under the project are robust and proven, and take technical experience
- some of which has been negative - from similar post-conflict projects implemented in Bosnia and Croatia
explicitly into account (see Section D.3 above). The import of livestock will be limited to cattle since sheep
and, in particular, goats experienced serious transport and adaptation problems in the case of projects in
Bosnia and Croatia. Farm mechanization will be limited to the repair of tractors and combine-harvesters
and replacement of tractors and implements, without providing new, smaller motorcultivators as the latter
proved to be in low demand in Bosnia and this appears to be equally the case in Kosovo. To ensure that
technical specifications for farm machinery and cattle meet the requirements of farmers in Kosovo, in depth
discussions between FAO technical experts were conducted with Kosovar professionals but also with
numerous farmers, farm machinery dealers and NGOs in the field prior to finalizing the documentation. A
first cattle distribution program is currently being implemented in Kosovo through the Swiss Development
Corporation which will also be involved in carrying out the cattle restocking component under the EFRP.
One intemational NGO (GOAL) has acquired significant experience in repairing tractors over the past
months and will equally participate in the tractor and combine harvester repair program under the EFRP.
Cattle Restocking. Based on experience in Bosnia and Croatia, and technical discussions held in Kosovo,
in-calf pregnant heifers as well as a limited number of bulls of the Simmental Fleckvieh (70% of total) and
Brown Swiss (30%) breeds will be imported and delivered to selected farm families. In addition, straws of
bovine semen will be imported to re-breed some of the animals and enhance Al in the rest of the province.
Initially envisaged and demanded by a proportion of farmers, the Holstein Friesian and Jersey dairy breeds
were considered unsuitable for import and distribution under the difficult management conditions prevailing
in the province.
While the project will provide after-delivery services to distributed cattle (veterinary follow-up, artificial
and natural insemination, nutrition support), the environment in which imported cattle is to perform in
Kosovo is relatively challenging compared to the conditions typically provided for animals in Western
Europe. This is compounded by the selection criteria which aims to support vulnerable families that have
lost all cattle during the conflict, yet met minimum technical standards of ability to care for the cattle in
terms of experience and infrastructure - while the animals will in all likelihood survive and reproduce - the
conditions for these animals will not be easy. Recipients will be operating in subsistence level farm
conditions where forage quality is poor (i.e. low nutrient hay during the winter feeding period), and minimal
concentrates are available in Kosovo at present. These conditions are similar to the Bosnian alpine areas
with extensive pastures, and where dual purpose breeds such as the Simmental and Brown Swiss have
survived and produced under adverse management conditions. Holstein Friesian, overall, are typically high
perforning single purpose milk producing animals that perform very well in a conducive environment but
often experience dramatic drops of productivity once such an environment cannot be assured. While a
number of farmers have expressed a preference for Holstein Friesian, overall farmers are less aware of the
technical suitability characteristics of these potentially new breeds in their farming conditions. Holstein
Friesian are in the mind of many farmers associated with high milk performance and hence seen as
desirable as reflected in a farm survey commissioned by FAO and the Bank. Holstein Friesian cattle may
well be suitable for a select group of better endowed farmers in Kosovo that are truly in a position to
provide the necessary conditions for these animals to produce. As mentioned above, this group of farmers
is, however, not envisaged to be part of the targeted beneficiaries, i.e. the farmers interviewed under the
survey are not fully representative of the envisaged group of beneficiaries to receive cattle under the
-21 -



project.
To ensure sustainability of distributed livestock under the EFRP, the following measures will be introduced
(a) distribution of animals to farm families with past experience in animal husbandry; (b) logistical
arrangements including transporting cattle by air to Pristina airport; recovery period (including
vaccination) at an animal holding station nearby Pristina operated by the Swiss Development Cooperation;
transport of animals to municipal distribution centers by local distributors having previously worked with
the SDC and under the supervision of the SDC (including insurance coverage up to point of delivery);
allocation of animals in the municipalities to selected farners under the supervision of the above NGOs; (c)
training of recipient farmers before and after distribution of cattle provided by NGOs supported by FAO;
(d) training of veterinary practitioners in the three recipient municipalities; (e) supply of bovine semen as
well as equipment for artificial insemination (Al) as well as organizational arrangements to ensure core Al
services in the project municipalities and provision of some 45 bulls in more remote areas for natural
servicing; (f) provision of veterinary follow-up financed under the project to distributed cattle (i.e. six visits
per animal, including two for artificial insemination); (g) provision of supplementary concentrate feeding to
ensure reproductive performance; (h) tagging and record cards for imported animals and off-spring; and (i)
NGO follow-up and monitoring of animal performance with recipient farmers for 6 to 12 months after
delivery; and (j) overall implementation by FAO supported technical specialists in Kosovo with back-up of
relevant technical departments at FAO Headquarters.
Tihe animals will be ear-tagged. The aim is to provide a central, traceable system of animal recording which
can benefit animal health, livestock movement, slaughter record, milk and meat recording and future
national genetic selection for improved breeding and export opportunities.
Roughly 20 - 25 percent of the costs associated with the cattle import and distribution are for after-delivery
services to ensure reproduction of cows provided. Contrary to Bosnia (where animals often were distributed
by the municipal authorities to demobilized soldiers without previous experience in animal husbandry),
imported cattle would be distributed to farmers who have had past experience in raising animals. In the
case of cattle no formal cost recovery is envisaged - though it is anticipated that there is sharing of milk and
off-spring amongst the extended family or within a given community will take place - thus avoiding some of
the problems experienced in Bosnia with early slaughtering of animals to provide cash for cost recovery or
to avoid project foreclosing on the distributed animals.  Clearly, handling cattle in a post-conflict
environment is not totally risk free and it cannot be guaranteed that each and every animal distributed will
lead the productive life that is hoped for. However, the major risks have been adequately contained without
making the cost per animal prohibitively expensive and thus uneconomnical.
Rehabilitation of Veterinary Services. A list of basic veterinary equipment to support the work of
veterinary practitioners throughout the municipalities has been drawn up by FAO animal health specialists
in consultation with Kosovar veterinarians, including practitioners from the municipalities as well as
academics from the University of Pristina. A list of basic animal drugs for curative purposes will be
established during the project preparation and start-up phase with the assistance of FAO technical
specialists (with support from technical departments at FAO Headquarters), as well as the equipment
required for the central diagnostic laboratory and three regional public animal health control centers. To
avoid monopolizing veterinary services associated with the municipality-based, veterinary group practices,
qualified individual veterinarians within a municipality are eligible to receive equipment and drugs and/or
allowed to leave the group practice with a pro-rated share of the equipment and drugs provided by the
project to the group practice.
The limited amount of equipment provided to ensure basic artificial insemination services do not constitute
- 22 -



a barrier of entry for others to supply Al services in the future. The urgent need for providing AI services in
the province as envisaged under the project is commensurate with the relatively small risk of contributing to
monopolizing theses services. To date no regulations exist that limit the rendering of Al services, including
the importation of semen by the private sector and the rendering of Al services by non-veterinarians. Also,
UNMIK does not intent to promulgate regulations restricting the provision of Al services. In addition, Al
training envisaged under the project is open to non-veterinarians and will seek to include women as
participants.
Overall, no major technical problems are anticipated for this component, though distribution of veterinary
equipment and drugs in minority areas may prove to be a challenge and will need to be carried out in close
consultation with minority leaders. The FAO/ECU is currently carrying out an emergency livestock
vaccination campaign in Kosovo implemented together with Kosovar veterinarians and is thus developing
significant expertise in the animal health sector in Kosovo.
Farm Mechanization. Detailed implementation arrangements have also been made for the farm
mechanization component, including cost recovery through sharing of farm mechanization assets within a
community. While tractors and irnplements are not as fragile as cattle, intemational NGOs together with
FAO support and supervision will provide follow-up to tractor recipients and their communities, including
monitoring of tractor use and compliance with cost recovery provisions. For the implementation of farm
mechanization repairs, the project will contract one or two intemational NGOs operating in Kosovo to
date and which are already now in the process of carrying out such repair activities in Kosovo. Technically
repairs envisaged under this approach are relatively straight forward (by extending on-going activities by
NGOs into more villages), relatively cheap (as overhead costs are fairly low) and will contribute to
developing the local private repair capacity since the repair works as well as the supply of spare parts will
be contracted to local entrepreneurs and repair workshops. The owner of the tractor will be required to sign
a contract with his/her community whereby he would commit himself to undertake specific activities for
some neighbors as a form of benefit sharing so that the entire community would benefit from the
component. With regard to farm mechanization replacements, the tractors would be distributed in
communities selected as the result of an open and widely shared consultation process which would result in:
(i) agreeing upon the most urgent needs; (ii) designing the final recipients of the tractors; (iii) deciding on
the ownership of the tractor (private or shared property, leasing, etc.), and; (iv) agreeing upon the contract
linking the recipients with the rest of the community in terms of work free of charge to be undertaken for
the other members of the community (nature and quantities of work, deadlines, eventually names of
persons, duration of the contract, etc.).
Department of Agriculture Capacity Building. The provision of technical assistance and training to the
newly established Agriculture Department under UNMIK's Joint Interim Administration is relatively
straightforward. The Agriculture Department is currently co-headed by one UNMIK staff and one Kosovar
individual. Several units under the Agriculture Department are being established along sub-sector lines
(crop production, livestock, marketing, veterinary services, extension services and forestry services) and
will be managed by Kosovar staff. The scope of technical assistance to be provided will be established
during the preparation and start-up phase by an FAO agriculture policy and administration expert
(supported by FAO Headquarters) in close consultation with UNMIK. During the preparation phase a
detailed training program for the Kosovar staff of the Department of Agriculture will be developed,
including overseas training and in-country courses to be carried out by intemational experts. Priority policy
areas to be supported by the technical assistance under the project will include, inter alia, (a) agriculture
trade policies; (b) measures required to pave the way for investments in irrigation rehabilitation in the near
term; (c) measures required to enable autonomous farm associations to thrive, and (d) measures required to
permit the development of micro-finance, and possibly, commercial non-bank credit. The activities
- 23 -



envisaged under this component, once adequately prepared and agreed with UNMIK, are technically
straightforward. The same applies for minor civil works associated with the basic refurbishing of the
premises of the Agriculture Department.
4. Institutional:
Clearly, the institutional environment in which this project will be implemented is challenging and in some
respects differs from that encountered in many other post-crisis situation in other locations. Only a limited
Kosovar representation is currently available through UNMWK/JIAS at the technical and administrative
levels, both in municipalities and the central administration in Pristina. While first promising steps have
been undertaken to ensure Kosovar institutional representation, UNNIK continues to be responsible for
goveming most of the administrative and political life in the province. At the same time UNMIK is faced
with numerous political and policy challenges and has only limited capacity to follow-up, manage and
implement the many technical and administrative aspects associated with the EFRP. FAO together with
many NGOs active since nearly 10 months in carrying out agriculture relief initiatives have the experience
and expertise to assist UNMIK on many of the implementation and fiduciary aspects of the subject
operation. On the other hand, UNMIK has demonstrated growing institutional support for this operation
and a willingness to work with FAO and NGOs. While certainly challenging, the existing institutional
framework is considered adequate to mitigate against most of the institution-related risks associated with
this operation. While the Project Management Team will involve many Kosovar professionals in the course
of implementation, the PMT will be established for a limited time period, only, after which this team will
cease to operate.
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Section C.4
4.2 Project management:
See Section C.4
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement will be carried out through FAO. No procurement issues are anticipated. See Annex 6 for
details.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management capacity within Kosovo has not been assessed, however, primarily because of
other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist have been mitigated by the use of the
FAO for project implementation, including financial management, drawing upon their experience of
operations of this nature, and by the use of the FAO's External Auditor for the audit of the project. In
addition, the risks in the developing Kosovo banking sector have been mitigated by the use by the FAO of
the UNDP's cash facilities in Pristina.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No major environmental issues are foreseen for the project. The limited scope, relative to conflict damages,
of new cattle, new farm mechanization and veterinary equipment provided does not raise environmental
concems. Animals will only be given to farmers with experience of rearing livestock and who lost all their
cattle in the conflict. The number of cattle being provided and the geographically wide-spread distribution
across many communities will not put pressure on pasture and grazing resources. This farm mechanization
-24 -



replacement and repair scheme does not entail environmental issues. The imnported tractors will be as close
as possible to existing mechanization levels. No environmental issues are envisaged under the capacity
building component. Minor civil works associated with the refurbishing of three veterinary stations and of
the premises of the UNMIK Department of Agriculture will be carried out under conditions such that they
are acceptable to neighboring communities and with materials not presenting any currently foreseeable
harm to health and the environment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
As this project falls under the Environmental Category C, no Environmental Mitigation Plan is required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable.
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specif-y the project's social
development outcomes.
There are many rural households that are in a position to rebuild their farm assets and re-launch economic
activities on their own either because damages to their assets have been limited and/or these families have
access to remittances from family members living abroad or otherwise have access to financial means. The
priority need for family shelter has led to a remarkable speed in reconstructing housing. While casual
observation seems to confirm that many households have been able to reconstruct their dwellings on a
priority basis, cash income of many of these families will not permit further reconstruction of economic
assets. There is also a significant share of the farming families that have lost most or all of their farm assets
(in particular in the westem municipalities of the province) and do not have access to remittances or
altemative, non-agriculture means of income. This is the group of families that is most vulnerable to sliding
into poverty or migrating out of rural areas. It is also this vulnerable strata of rural society that the project
envisages to support to avoid a further sliding into poverty of rural families.
Minorities. The project is designed to support farm reconstruction in Kosovo, irrespective of ethnicity of
beneficiaries. Therefore the proposed beneficiary selection criteria will, in principle, allow for minorities to
be included under the project, provided minority families meet the selection criteria which are geared
towards high on-farm damage incidence and social vulnerability. This is likely to address agriculture
reconstruction efforts in municipalities serviced by the project with a high incidence of Albanian Kosovar
population in a first instance, but also of Romas and other minorities. Similarly, as the rehabilitation of
veterinary services will be supported throughout Kosovo, in principle, the delivery of veterinary care should
improve irrespective of ethnicity. Also, the project will provide technical support to the Agriculture
Department under UNMIK to carry out activities in cooperation with minorities, in particular, Serb
Kosovars.
-25 -



In addition, the Department of Agriculture under UNMK's Joint Interim Administration Structure will be
responsible for selecting beneficiaries who will receive up to ten percent of cattle and new farm
mechanization equipment financed under the Project. These beneficiaries will be selected from
municipalities in addition to those already identified, and based on the same selection criteria to be used in
selecting beneficiaries from the identified municipalities, as described in Section E6. FAO will be
responsible for the distribution and monitoring of assets to such beneficiaries.
Gender Aspects. While the conflict in Kosovo resulted in the deaths of a number of men, the incidence of
female headed households is apparently low. An extended family situation is an integral part of Kosovo
society, particularly in rural areas. Many farms do not operate now, nor did they in the past, in a nuclear
family sense. Farms often feature walled compounds and consist of a number of household units - parents,
sons and daughters in law, and grandchildren - living in several large houses within the compound. A farm
may support more than 50 individuals. Farming systems are traditional, with mainly male management.
However, benefits from the livestock component of the project are skewed towards women. Provision of a
cow will be targeted to needy households with relatively high numbers of children. Given the traditional
society and extended family situations which incorporate widows, female headed households are more
likely to qualify to receive a cow under the project beneficiary selection criteria. Women also process
livestock products such as milk, yogurt, and cheese and thus cows will provide an income earning source
for female headed households with the surplus milk production to family requirements. Cows given to
female headed households will also provide critical nutrient and protein dense inputs to children at risk of
malnutrition. Caring for cattle also has a high female labor input in male headed households. Management
of the cow in terns of breeding and growing forage may be done by males but rearing calves and milking
are primarily female activities. This means that often women are most closely involved with the cow in
terms of time commitment and most sensitive to changes in a cow's well-being. As the cows delivered to
beneficiary households will be in-calf, women will be involved in raising the progeny. Both men and
women, in male headed households, will be encouraged to attend the training sessions organized by NGOs
prior to receipt of the cow.
Municipality-based veterinary practices will provide services to the fanning community as part of their
cost-recovery obligations under the project. Female headed households who own cattle are therefore more
likely to qualify for free veterinary services. The project will also encourage the participation of women in
Al training.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Beneficiary Selection. A beneficiary selection methodology to be applied in municipalities selected under
the project and which aims at minimizing errors of inclusion and exclusion yet is sufficiently flexible to
allow for effective implementation within the framework of an emergency-type operation is a key feature of
this project. The methodology will be implemented by (two) intemational NGOs, Action against Hunger
and Mercy Corps, and one national NGO, the Mother Theresa Society (MTS) under the supervision of an
intemational rural sociologist with the FAO Project Management Team.
The following steps will be carried out to select beneficiaries associated with the cattle restocking and the
distribution of new farm machinery components: (a) selection of municipalities; (b) data collection on
economic assets in each village of the selected municipalities; (c) preparing a preliminary list of possible
beneficiary villages; (d) consultation at municipality level to finalize the list of beneficiary villages; (e)
information campaign in the selected villages; (f) meetings and consultation at village level to select
beneficiary farmers; (g) finalize the list of beneficiary farmers receiving a cow and those receiving a
tractor; and (h) one day training course for farmers receiving cattle and one for those receiving a tractor.
- 26 -



The process is anticipated to require roughly three months to carry out. As the project expands into
additional municipalities in the future, the experience gained from carrying out the beneficiary selection in
the first municipalities - which is being implemented during the on-going project preparation and
initial-start-up phase - would be used to improve and possibly stream-line the above steps. These steps are
sunmnarized in the following.
Criteria for selecting municipalities. Municipalities have been selected considering an indicator that
combines damages on houses, cattle and farm machinery in agreement with UNINK. The project will be
initially implemented in the first three most severely damaged municipalities according to the ranking
criteria: Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac and Decan/Decani.
Data collection on economic assets in each village of the selected municipalities. The following
information will be collected at village level: population, nurnber of households, arable land, existing
number of tractors in working conditions, current number of cows; current number of damaged tractors,
number of households having lost all their cows. A list of villages belonging to minority groups in the
municipality will also be prepared.
Preparing a preliminary list of possible beneficiary villages. On the basis of the collected data a
preliminary list of villages within the municipality will be prepared where the need for cattle and
agricultural machinery is most urgent. The number of cattle and agricultural machinery to be distributed
per municipality will be based on the size of the rural population in the municipality and will be decided up
front by the Project Management Team (PMT). The pre-selection of villages will be done by the NGO on
the basis of the collected data. The general criteria for this pre-selection will be:
1.    for cattle: by village, the average number of cows per household. The preparation of the list of
pre-selected villages to receive cattle would be undertaken in the following iterative process: (i) ranking the
villages according to the cow per household ratio; (ii) pre-select villages with a ratio equal or lower to. 1
(number of cows: number of households); (iii) pre-allocate a number of cows per pre-selected village in
order to reach the 1:1 ratio (with a minimum of 10 cows per village). If this ratio does not allow the
distribution of the predetermined number of cows for the municipality, the ratio will be adjusted. (iv)
subsequently, establish the final threshold of the above ratio and thus pre-select villages; (v) adjust the
village pre-list to take account of the specific conditions of villages with a low calculated ratio but with a
traditional livestock vocation not related to cattle (e.g. sheep); (vi) finally, adjust the list of villages in a
municipal consultation processes to assure the inclusion of the villages perceived as most vulnerable by the
community;
2.     for tractors: the number of usable tractors-arable land ratio. More precisely, usable tractor is
defined as the number of tractors in working condition plus the number of tractors that could be repaired at
reasonable cost. The latter should be worked out in conjunction with the organizations implementing tractor
repair programs in the municipalities or, in the absence of such available information, by assuming that a
certain proportion (half of the tractors that need repair) of broken tractors could be repaired before bringing
in new ones. The first pre-selection criteria would, therefore, be one usable tractor per 20 ha of arable land.
The same iterative process as described for the livestock component above should then be undertaken to
finalize the pre-selection of the villages.
Consultation at municipality level to finalize the list of beneficiary villages. Once the preliminary list of
possible selected villages is ready, the international NGO in cooperation with Mother Theresa Society
(MTS) will launch and organize a number of consultations at municipality level to discuss and eventually
-27 -



finalize the list of villages. This will include meetings with (a) UNMIK representatives; (b) municipal
leaders and concerned technical specialists; (c) international and local NGOs active in the municipality; (d)
women's organizations; (e) all village leaders of the municipality. The goal is to achieve a general
consensus on the final list of villages where the distribution of cattle and new farm machinery will take
place. The following aspects should be considered: (i) special attention given to minorities and enclaves; (ii)
the willingness to avoid concentration of aid in specific villages; (iii) particular local conditions of
vulnerability of villages, not included in the pre-selection proposed by the international NGO; (iv) specific
conditions of some villages such as the presence of mines or unavailability of pastures.
Information campaign. An inforrnation campaign in the selected villages will be implemented by the
Mother Theresa Society. The international rural sociologist under the PMT- together with the international
NGO will supervise step by step this information campaign. The following steps will be undertaken:
*   Preparation of posters, leaflets and booklets explaining, among other: - the aim of the project, the
criteria used for selecting possible beneficiaries or groups of beneficiaries; - the modalities used to
attain the final list of beneficiaries; - the rules associated with cost recovery which future beneficiaries
are expected to follow;
*   Distribution of posters and leaflets in all the selected villages and in all the administrative bureau of the
municipality;
* Organization of a one day training course, prepared and conducted by the international sociologist, to
train 12 facilitators selected at municipality level by MTS. These facilitators will be eventually
responsible for the dissemination campaign held at village level;
*   Organization of one meeting in each of the selected villages in order to explain directly to farmers the
rules of the project and to answer their questions;
* Identify and train a skilled person (resource farmer) in each village that can act as a furither point of
dissemination of information related to cattle and tractor allocation.
Meetings and consultation at village level to select beneficiary farmers. This will be done essentially
through a participatory method that will make the best use of intimate knowledge on household
characteristics shared within the community. Villages are often rather large units and in such cases it may
be better to consider neighbor units, the lagies, as a starting point of this process of decision making. At
least three meetings will be organized in each of the selected villages. The major aims of these meetings will
be to foster villagers participation and to foster consensus in order to increase the level of acceptance of the
final decision.
The criteria for the selection of beneficiaries will be discussed, amended and improved during these
meetings. The starting point for establishing the criteria for families selection will be proposed by the NGO
and include the following elements. For cattle: (a) families that have lost all cattle; (b) families with a
relevant number of vulnerable members (children, old persons, pregnant women or widows, disabled); (c)
limited ability to purchase milk due to lack of income. For tractors the procedure will be different as a cost
recovery plan is foreseen. A group of farmers with little access to tractor power will be selected (secondary
beneficiaries). This group will select a farmer as the future owner of the tractor. The criteria for the
selection of the primary beneficiary (the tractor owner) will be: (a) a farmer who used to operate a tractor
before the war; (b) a farmer that receive the consensus of all the members of the group of secondary
beneficiaries. The criteria for the selection of the secondary beneficiaries will be that this group: (a) should
- 28 -



not have functioning tractors or repairable ones; (b) should have limited access to land preparation services
by others; (c) should have lack of income opportunities.
Finalize the list of beneficiary farmers receiving cattle and those receiving tractors. This exercise will
include the public announcement of the final list of beneficiaries in the selected villages and grievance
hearings. By end of July 2000 these lists will be submitted to the PMT for final approval.
One day training course for farmers receiving cattle and one for those receiving a tractor. These
training seminars will be held in each of the selected villages in order to brief all the primary and secondary
beneficiaries on technical issues and on the commitment they will undertake by receiving project support. In
the case of tractors a specific training course will be held on a municipality wide basis, gathering all the
primary beneficiaries in the municipality town. This course will deal only with technical specificity of the
tractor and of its utilization in the field. The training for secondary tractor beneficiaries will be divided into
two parts. A first very short part will introduce and explain technical specificity of the tractors to be
delivered. The second part will explain in details the contract that the group of farmers will sign; the
obligation of the farmer to which the tractor will eventually belong and the penalties in case of breaking the
rules. In case of cattle the training courses will explain all the specific requirements the breed delivered will
need, focusing on shelter, nutrition, health, AI, delivery and how to take advantage from the veterinary
service and other specific services the project will provide.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See Section 6.2 above
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Section 6.2 above
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See Section 6.2 above
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
El Envoluntar Resetlment       _0BP  _OP41E Yes E No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.043 BP 4.37 P 4.04El ]Yes 1 No
O Forestry (OP 4.3ta GPo4.36) W                                      Yes O No
El Pest Management (IQ  4.09)                                     LI Yes O No
ElCultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 El Yes (9 No
LIIndigernous Peoples LOD 4.20)                                 El Yes 12 No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD4.301                              O Yes 12 No
CG Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP L.371                              El Yes 1S No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50.OP7.5~0     LI Yes 12 No
O Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          El Yes O No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
No specific safeguard policy applies to this project.
-29 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
While work on this project was initiated by the Bank in conjunction with FAO in mid-July 1999 (i.e. some
four weeks after the end of the armed conflict in Kosovo), project preparation has taken longer than
anticipated, resulting in largely forgoing the 2000 Spring/Summer crop season with respect to delivering
the farm reconstruction support envisaged under the project. The delays have been caused by: (a)
considerable effort on the part of the Bank to prepare adequate sector work in Fall 1999; (b) extended
discussions between the Bank and UNMIK (and other major partners, such as the European Union) on
priority activities to be undertaken in the agriculture sector; (c) uncertainty of project financing; and (d)
protracted discussions, in the absence of a pre-agreed framework, between the Bank, UNMIK and FAO on
detailed fiduciary procedures associated with project management (including, inter alia, financial
management, disbursements and procurement). While these factors have resulted in delays for
implementation, they have also contributed to enhancing the quality of project design and of management
and implementation arrangements. Given the scope of damages incurred farm reconstruction will take
several cropping seasons to carry out. As such, the project objectives, design and component will remain
highly relevant to the agriculture sector in Kosovo over the coming 18 months.
Technical sustainability of delivered assets will be achieved through a careful selection of the types of
animals and tractors which are suitable to local conditions and requirements of farmers: (i) cattle breeds
combining adequate milk production and rusticity are known and appreciated by local farmers; and (ii) one
standard type of tractors and three types of implements which correspond to those mostly used and
appreciated by farmers. In addition, the related services (veterinary services, artificial insemination,
quarantine, diagnosis laboratory, repair services for machinery, private dealers of spare parts) will be
supported by the project to ensure continued service of imported assets.
The social consultation process is designed to enhance cohesiveness at municipality and village level and
once established could be used for other types of support interventions either from donors or from future
administrations. Local public and private institutions are strengthened through technical assistance,
participation in project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and on the job training. This will
contribute to improving the technical and managerial capacity of Kosovar professionals.
The types of assets being distributed by the project and associated follow-up activities suggest eminent
sustainability. The project is making considerable provisions to provide after-delivery services to recipients
in terms of veterinary and nutritional follow-up for cattle, and monitoring of tractor use and sharing. The
distributed cows will be pregnant heifers which will calf in 2 - 4 months. The received heifer will then
produce milk for the family and calf until weaning. A bull heifer will provide natural servicing of heifers in
the community between 12 and 14 months after birth. A heifer calf will provide additional milk, for
household consumption or sale, around 2 years after birth assuming first calving at this time. So one
pregnant heifer will provide the catalyst for a farmer to restock lost cattle. The life span of a tractor extends
well beyond the life of the project. The communrity involvement in the distribution and use of the tractor
should also ensure that it continues to be used as a community asset beyond the project cycle.
Re-establishing veterinary services will also contribute to safeguarding the existing animal stock in the
province and is likely to become an institutionally sustainable service.
- 30 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
The distributed livestock and its offspring  M         Strong cattle after delivery service by
are sold and not used for re-building of               veterinarians, training and additional concentrate
cattle herd.                                           feed ensure proper treatment, health and
reproductive capacity of the distributed livestock
and their offspring. The, thus, continued high
value of the animals reduces the risk of animals
being slaughtered.
Insufficient repair shops and skills         M         Proper assessment of available repair shops in
available to conduct machinery repairs.                the municipalities by the NGO and facilitating
of training and spare part delivery. Knowledge
transfer from other municipalities where
program is already active.
Farmers are not willing or able to pay for   M         Farmers are used to pay for the veterinary
the services of the re-equipped                        services and know about the necessity of the
veterinarians. Veterinary service develops             services for their livestock. Cost recovery of
slowly.                                                veterinary component allows veterinarians to
treat a substantive amount of animals without
pay. Availability of cash income will increase
after harvest.
The social pressure at community level       S         The beneficiary selection is based on a
does not ensure the enforcement of                     participatory approach which should allow the
sharing obligations of the mechanization               identification of the intended beneficiaries. The
component.                                             involvement of MTS as the local NGO in the
selection allows the identification of possible
constraints early in the process.
From Components to Outputs
Technical assumption on livestock are not    S         Careful supervision of the process by the PMT.
correct: low mortality rate, good                      Knowledge on animal husbandry and
adaptation of animals, sufficient feeding              availability of shelter part of the selection
and shelter available; off-spring used to              criteria. Additional after delivery services and
re-build the provincial herd;                          training provided.
The pieces of equipment are not suitable     M         Simple design of technical specifications of
to local needs for agriculture and                     tractors and implements based on identified
transport purposes.                                    needs and requests by the farmers.
- 31 -



The proposed consultation process is not     S         Start as soon as possible with the beneficiary
feasible and socially accepted and the                 selection to ensure sufficient time for
consecutive contractual arrangement                    consultation and grievance hearings. Put as
between the recipient and his/her                      much clarity and openness in the process as
community are not enforced so that                     possible. Involve local and international NGO to
benefits of scarce assets are shared in the            facilitate consultation. Recruit experienced rural
concerned communities.                                 sociologists and economists to support the
process.
Basic logistic infrastructure (airport,      M         Awareness of the constraint by the PMT and
border crossings) are not adequate for                 early discussion with responsible authorities to
project purposes or hinder delivery of                 ensure timely solutions if problems occur.
goods.
Insufficient coordination between            M         The FAO/ECU is coordinating all the efforts in
agricultural projects leads to various                 agriculture. As the implementing partner, they
approaches on distribution and handling                can coordinate and facilitate between
of beneficiary selection.                              organizations to strearnline approaches where
needed and possible. Continuos discussions with
relevant organization ongoing.
The ethnic tensions and political            H         The design of the project is relatively
instability undermine the output of project            independent of the present and future political
interventions. The security environment is             structure involving mostly an independent PMT
not stable.                                            and local traditional communities.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversies are associated with this project.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
A Project Service Agreement - satisfactory to the Bank - to be entered into between UNMIK and FAO.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Prior to requesting the Bank's no-objection to the above-mentioned Project Service Agreement, the FAO
will, inter alia, provide evidence to the Bank that FAO's Extemal Auditor (the Cour des Comptes) has
accepted the request from the FAO Finance Committee to carry out audits of the project in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
- 32 -



Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Comments:
add 2. Bidding documents for the procurement of tractors and farm implements have been prepared and
are ready to be tendered. Technical specifications and bidding documents for other goods are now being
prepared during the on-going project start-up phase, with the assistance of FAO technical specialists and
the FAO procurement adviser in Pristina. The letter of invitation and associated request for proposal for
technical assistance services to the Agriculture Department at UNSIK will equally be prepared during the
start-up phase.
add 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been prepared during appraisal mission jointly with UNMIK
and FAO. Beneficiary selection is planned to be carried out between mid-June and mid-August 2000.
add 4. Project Management Services Contract - satisfactory to the Bank - to be entered into between
UNNIK and FAO prior Project Grant Effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
i 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval Tproject complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
O"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Sever"n L. K~odderitzsch                 //1-evin M. Cleaver        C     aaistiaa o. o
Team Leader                       Sector  anagerlDirector           Country ManagerDi         if
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:      Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To support major structural Phasing out of food    ESW report (periodic)     The poor are
changes in the rural     assistance in project areas.                        disproportionally involved in
economy over a phased                                                        agriculture
transition through jump
starting agriculture.
Increase of agricultural                           Agriculture is the only
production in project areas                        means to support the rural
economy for the time being
Project Development      Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Vulnerable households in    Outcome indicators:    Brief semestral report (at   Adequate macro policy
targeted villages and                              beginning of each planting  framework in place.
municipalities attain    *      Increase of share of  season) to collect key
minimum levels of        land cultivated for       quantifiable parameters in   Strong private contributions
agricultural production and  agricultural production in   all concerned villages  through remittances support
food security through    targeted villages.        (areas, number of animals,  rehabilitation process.
replaced farm assets and    *   Yield levels of crop  houses re-built);
improved veterinary      and livestock production                            Other relief operations in the
services.                return to pre-conflict levels  More comprehensive reports agricultural sector are
in targeted villages.    (baseline/interim/final)  conducted according to their
*     Increase in number  based on semi-opened     initial plans.
of vulnerable households in  interviews with a
targeted villages consuming representative sample of
adequate amount of milk    villages and of households
and bread according to   (project/non-project) to
dietary standards.       assess the economic and
*     High share of      social impact of project
distributed animals and their interventions: production
offspring still in beneficiary levels, conditions of
households and used for    animals; suitability of
restocking purposes.     project assets; level of
Numnber of veterinarians    satisfaction; level of food
operating in province (ratio  security and income at farm
per animal and area);    level.
frequency and satisfaction
of veterinary services used;
reduction in number of fatal
cases resulting from
unavailability of
veterinarian or required
equipment; in-crease in Al
services used.
- 34 -



- 35 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Cattle Herd            Targeting correctly        For output 1.,2.,and 3.:     *  Distributed livestock
Re-established             implemented; High           *  PMT quarterly reports      and its offspring used
Selected families in villages survival rate of distributed  for monitoring the       for re-building of
who lost all their cattle  cattle and calves; milk        physical and financial     cattle herd.
gained access to new      production by cow;              implementation of the
breeding stock and are    continued productivity of       project.                *  Farmers demand and
enabled to re-engage in   cows and calves                                            willing to pay for
livestock production.     (re-conception rate).                                      veterinary services.
2. Rehabilitate Veterinary   High awareness of farmers    *  Semestral reports    *  Sufficient repair shops
Services (Kosovo-wide)    on the availability of          (same as above) for        and skills available to
Access to veterinary      Kosovo-wide veterinary          direct physical output     conduct machinery
services improved         services among farmers;         of the project such as     repairs.
throughout Kosovo.        Share of vet stations           crop and livestock
operational                    production, use of      *  Government seriously
repaired and newly        considers new policies
supplied farm             and intends adoption
machinery, etc. and for
the identification of  *  Social pressure at
bottlenecks or             community level
constraints requiring     ensures enforcement of
further actions (related  sharing obligations
to animal health,
quality of repair of
tractors, etc.)
3. Farm Machinery Repair  3. Targeting correctly       *  Report on performance
and Replacement           implemented, No. of             of organizations
Selected villages gained  functioning tractors and        involved in beneficiary
improved access to        combine harvesters              selection and
functioning agricultural  available in relation to        distribution process as
machinery and equipment to agricultural area; high level  well as implementation
address urgent needs in    of satisfaction of farmers     arrangements like the
agriculture.              with respect to access to       voucher scheme
farm machinery and with
contractual arrangements.
4. Capacity Building      4. Favorable independent   4. Legal documents,
Relevant agricultural issues evaluation of the analysis   supervision mission reports,
analyzed and policies     conducted and the policies   evaluation mission (audit)
drafted.                  drafted (mid-term, final).
- 36 -



- 37 -



Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
1. Cattle Herd           1. US$ 11.8 rnillion      Quarterly project         Technical assumption on
Re-established                                     management reports        livestock correct: low
Distribution of 6,000                              prepared by the Project   mortality rate among
pregnant heifers and bulls                         Management Unit           introduced stock
(procurement management,
financial report, project
progress report, i.e. physical
delivery of goods and
services, number of villages
having been informed,
having undertaken the
consultation process and
completed the distribution of
assets).
2. Rehabilitate Veterinary   2. US$ 1.3 million, of  Quarterly disbursement    Incentives are adequate for
Services (Kosovo-wide)    which:                   reports                   beneficiaries and
non-beneficiaries to allow
for consultation process to
be conducted and
contractual arrangements to
be established at community
level
*  Equip de facto private  - US$ 0.5 million                                 Basic logistic infrastructure
veterinarians                                                                (airport, border crossing)
*  Equip a Central                                                           suitable for project
Diagnostic Laboratory      - US$ 0.4 million                                 purposes.
(CDL)
*  Re-establish public     - US$ 0.3 million
animal health services
*  Equipment and supply    - US$ 0.1 million
of AI services
3. Farm Machinery Repair  3. US$ 7.9 million, of                             Security environment stable.
and Replace-ment         which:
*  Repair Scheme          - US$ 2.4 million                                  Government is supporting
*  Supply of 320 sets of    - US$ 5.5 million                                beneficiary selection process
new farm machinery                                                           and criteria throughout
(tractors & basic                                                            project.
implements)
4. Institution Capacity  4. US$ 4.0 million, of                              Reasonable coordination of
Building                 which:                                              all agricultural projects
within the province.
- 38 -



*  Technical assistance for   - US$ 0.9 million
agricultural policy support,
establishment of most urgent
public services, training of
local senior staff; mninor
works on office of Dept. of
Agri.
Project Management    - US$ 3.1 million
-39 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
The Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project envisages to carry out the following components: (a) support
to re-establishing the cattle herd; (b) rehabilitation of veterinary services; (c) farm machinery repair and
replacement; and (d) agriculture policy capacity building. The cattle restocking and farm mechanization
components will be implemented in some 3 to 8 highly damaged municipalities (as a function of donor
funding becoming available). The veterinary services component will be implemented on a Kosovo-wide
basis; while the policy capacity building component will be carried out mainly at UNMIK in Pristina. See
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for details.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$11.80 million
SuDDort to Re-establishing the Cattle Herd (Full cost: US$1 1.8 million / Initial Phase: US$4.4 million)
Under the initial phase of the project the aim is to assist in re-establishing the national cattle herd through
the procurement of 2300 cattle, including 45 breeding bulls and the remaining 2,255 in calf heifers as
follows: 1,578 Simmental Fleckvieh (70% of total) and 677 Brown Swiss (30% of total). Initially envisaged
and demanded by a proportion of farmers, the Holstein Friesian and Jersey dairy breeds were considered
unsuitable for the first imnportation under such difficult management conditions. In addition 28,000 straws
of bovine semen will be imported to re-breed some of the animals and enhance Al in the rest of the
province. The implementation of this component will be coordinated by the FAO livestock specialist who
will also ensure good communication between all parties involved, in particular suppliers, airport
authorities, UNMIK, SDC, and NGOs in charge of distribution of animals and following up on animals in
the selected municipalities.
The animals will be procured through Limited Intemational Bidding. Technical specifications are provided
in the PIP. Bidding documents have been prepared by FAO. The heifers will be selected in the country of
origin by a selection team comprising of 2 Kosovar experts (one veterinarian and livestock specialist, one
farmer representative with practical animal husbandry experience) jointly with an FAO livestock specialist
who, amongst other qualifications, has OLE veterinary regulatory experience.
The animals will be transported by air freight from the country of origin to Pristina airport. At about 65
animals per aircraft and one flight per day, this should take about 40 days between early September and
late October 2000. The insurance from the supplier is effective from this point until 30 days post delivery
at Pristina Airport. It covers death, morbidity and subsequent slaughter and abortion.
The temporary UNMIK procedures for holding/quarantine periods for imported livestock require a 5 day
holding period at the Fush Kosovo Holding Station and a 25 day isolation period at the beneficiary farm to
exclude contact with local livestock. These two holding periods, at the holding station and at the farm,
would meet the UNMIK procedures of a 30 day quarantine period.
A contract is being discussed with the Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC, a registered NGO in
Kosovo) to take care of the animals from their arrival at the airport until their delivery to the farmers, i.e.
including local transportation and stay in the Fushe Kosovo/Kosovo Polje farm. This holding center which
will have been equipped during the project preparation and start-up phase, and will provide shelter, feeding
and clean water, management of the imported heifers as well as veterinary follow-up by SDC veterinarians
for 5 days (confirmation of pregnancy) and vaccination of heifer. The SDC would also ensure
-40 -



transportation from the holding station to the municipalities by experienced stockmen.
The responsibility of SDC finishes with the off-loading of the animals at the delivery points in the selected
municipalities. The distribution of animals within the municipalities will be the responsibility of the NGOs
that have been in charge of beneficiary selection and are present in the respective municipalities, i.e. AAH
in Skenderaj/Srbica and Gllogoc/Glogovac and MCI in Decan/Decane. These NGOs will have inforned
farmers on the date and place of delivery, implemented their pre-delivery training, prepared all necessary
documentation and prepared the logistic of distribution. Each farmer will sign a delivery notice which
verifies: (i) the heifer/bull was received in a good healthy condition: no transit damage; (ii) the correct
pedigree certificate; (iii) the correct consecutive ear tag; (iv) the veterinary certificate; (v) insurance
document, if required; (vi) receipt of halter/rope; and (vii) farm record cards/evidence of training.
The animals will be ear-tagged. The aim is to provide a central, traceable system of animal recording which
can facilitate monitoring of animal health, livestock movement, slaughter record, milk and meat recording
and future genetic selection for improved breeding and export opportunities.
About 45 breeding bulls will be procured as part of the imported cattle. These will be distributed to
individual farmers in the most remote villages with little access to artificial insemination services, due to
transportation constraints. The recipient will be contracted to provide services to cows in his village as a
cost recovery measure. Detailed procedures and requirements will be further worked out during the
preliminary phase of project implementation.
Considerable emphasis is put on post-delivery monitoring and assistance to cattle recipients which will be
the responsibility of the above mentioned NGOs and local veterinarians under the supervision of the FAO
livestock specialists. High priority is placed on the re-breeding management of the imported heifers. Correct
balanced feeding is a key to improved fertility. In addition to training of all recipients in feeding and fodder
conservation techniques, provision will be made for a concentrate feed delivery for each farmer who
receives a heifer, for the critical post-calving period of 100 days (2 kg per day) as forage quality improves
and private sector mills re-establish access to local supply. A total of 460 tons (200 kg per animal) will be
procured locally and distributed by the NGOs.
In addition, the following veterinary services will be provided by local veterinarians who will be contracted
by the FAO/ECU to carry out the following: (a) first visit for confirmation of pregnancy and holding
period/isolation; (b) second visit for calving/post calving assistance/ calf identification tag; (c) third visit
for re-breeding check / general nutrition/health check; (d) fourth visit for the confirmation of the second
pregnancy; (e) two artificial insemination visits; to include transport, labor, semen straws; and (f) to
undertake monthly checks on the village breeding bulls, including venereal testing on a three-monthly basis
during the first year. One contract will be signed with each of the three municipality veterinary practices
which will indicate: number and names of cow owners, number and nature of visits, schedule of work and
costing of the services. Second and third payments will be subject to the satisfactory delivery of services as
monitored by the local NGOs.
Families receiving caffle under the project and their respective community will be informed that the second
off-spring is expected to be made available by the recipient family to the community for allocation to other
families in need within the community. The described approach of sharing of asset within a larger family
and community context is an acceptable mechanism of partial in-kind cost recovery based on social
cohesion within the community. It is recognized, however, that this type of cost recovery is clearly not
enforceable from outside the local community and relies on social control.
- 41 -



Project Component 2 - US$1.30 million
Rehabilitation of Veterinary Services (Full cost: US$1.3 million / Initial Phase: US$1.3 million)
This component will be implemented through the FAO Project Management Team consisting of a Kosovar
livestock and veterinary specialist and technical support from the following FAO specialists on the basis of
repeated shorter term missions: a veterinary policy specialist; a veterinary supply specialist, and; a
diagnostic laboratory specialist.
Rehabilitation needs of veterinary services in Kosovo has been initially assessed on the basis of a
consultative process which involved various parties concerned, including private veterinarians, the faculty
of agriculture, UNMIK as well as municipal administration. This process was initiated during FAO and
Bank missions in July and September 1999 and January 2000; was continued by the FAO/ECU
veterinarians in-charge of an on-going animal vaccination campaign; and will be finalized under the
guidance of an FAO veterinary policy specialist assisted by a Kosovar veterinary expert during the
on-going project preparation and start-up phase. The outcome will reflect a consensus on the organization
and structure of private and public veterinary services, the clear definition of the functions and roles of
each of these, as well as the needs of strengthening the public animal health and disease control services in
terms of training and public investment. In particular, the final stage of the consultation process will
ascertain the following: (a) disease control and epidemiology, (b) sanitary OIE standards for imnportation,
(c) cross border control regulations for import/export; (d) slaughter house and meat inspection; (e) Kosovar
cattle/livestock identification system (including EU compatibility); and (f) animal welfare regulations.
Project investmnents and activities described below do not predetermine the long term policy stance in the
animal health field. Rather, these are indicative investments which could be financed to support the
development of public veterinary services. They should be considered with flexibility so that the details can
be adopted during project implementation.
Private veterinarians are currently organized in veterinary practices which would be supported in
equipment and drugs. Equipment would cover clinical and microscopic diagnosis, as well as medical and
surgical treatments for all farm animals. The plan is to strengthen the veterinary practices that have on
average 2-5 qualified veterinarians and 2-4 supporting veterinary technicians/field staff. The equipment and
drugs would be procured through international shopping and distributed to the veterinary practices in
September and October 2000. To avoid monopolizing veterinary services associated with the
municipality-based, veterinary group practices, qualified individual veterinarians within a municipality are
eligible to receive equipment and drugs and/or allowed to leave the group practice with a pro-rated share of
the equipment and drugs provided by the project to the group practice. Distribution of veterinary drugs to
veterinary practitioners will take place in two tranches; distribution of the second tranche of drugs is
conditional on the veterinarian demonstrating satisfactory performance, including provision of quality
service to remotely located and poor farmers, and meeting cost recovery obligations (below). Compliance
of these obligations will be monitored by NGOs working in the project municipalities and by the FAO/ECU
in municipalities in which NGOs do not operate.
Basic kits of veterinary equipment and drugs will also include 1000 straws of bovine semen of the
Simmental (40%), Brown Swiss (40%), Holstein Friesian (15%) and Jersey (5%) breeds to encourage
genetic improvement and husbandry extension in all 28 municipalities on the remaining Busha cattle herd.
The equipment packs include 30 litre storage flasks, 10 litre field flasks, inseminator kits. Refresher
training courses on artificial Insemination will also be organized at the municipal level.
As a cost recovery measure, this significant capital contribution of equipment, veterinary drugs, Al
equipment and Bovine semen to private practices in all municipalities will have a repayment in kind. This
-42 -



will correspond to about 30% of the asset value through the provision of free veterinary visits and artificial
insemination to non project farmers. This will provide an average of 250 farmers per municipality with free
veterinary visits.
In addition, private veterinarians would be provided with training in business management, reproductive
veterinary skills, new drug use and technology development. Together with technicians, they would also
receive Artificial Insemnination refresher courses.
Public veterinary services. The support to public animal health and disease control services would include
the establishment of a central veterinary diagnostic laboratory and three regional diagnostic laboratories, as
well as a facility to ensure artificial insemination services. The rehabilitation of a central veterinary
diagnostic laboratory in Pristina is a priority public service to support the re-emerging livestock industry
and food safety. Technical specifications for the goods and works to be provided will be prepared during
the project preparation and start-up phase.
The basic requirements for a an AI center are semen and liquid nitrogen storage tanks, handling equipment,
basic laboratory for semen quality/motility testing, liquid nitrogen and semen collection/delivery vehicle
(4WD 2 ton carrying capacity with 2000 litre removable tank.). The limited amount of equipment provided
to ensure basic artificial insemination services do not constitute a barrier of entry for others to supply Al
services in the future. The urgent need for providing Al services in the province as envisaged under the
project is commensurate with the relatively small risk of contributing to monopolizing theses services. To
date no regulations exist that limit the rendering of Al services, including the importation of semen by the
private sector and the rendering of Al services by non-veterinarians. Also, UNMIK does not intent to
promulgate regulations restricting the provision of Al services. In addition, Al training envisaged under the
project is open to non-veterinarians and will seek to include women as participants.
Project Component 3 - USS 7.90 million
Farm Machinery Repair and Renlacement (Full cost: US$7.9 million / Initial Phase: US$3.3 million)
The objective of this component is to help rebuild the power capacity for agricultural production through
the following two sub-components: (i) a tractor repair program to make workable in a cost effective manner
some of the large number of tractors which have been reported as damaged or broken down; (ii) the
distribution of new pieces of equipment, where a power deficit still remains in particular areas.
To implement this component, the FAO PMT will include a full-time Kosovar mechanization specialist
supported by short terns inputs of an FAO mechanization specialist visiting Kosovo during key periods.
The tractor repair program will be sub-contracted to NGOs with proven successful experience in this field,
such as possibly, GOAL. The procurement of new tractors will be the responsibility of the FAO/PMT, with
logistical and monitoring support provided by international NGOs active in the concerned municipalities
(i.e. AAH in Skenderaj/Srbica and Gllogoc/Glogovac, MCI in Decan/Decane). In each municipality, these
NGOs will have recruited a Kosovar municipal mechanization technician.
Tractor Repair Program. (US$2.4 million / US$1.3 million) There are a number of on-going and
planned tractor repair programs implemented by NGOs in different regions of Kosovo. The purpose of this
repair program is to identify geographic gaps and contract one or several of these NGOs to fill these gaps.
This will first be undertaken in the municipalities of PrizrenlPrizren, Rahovec/Orahovac or
Gjakove/Djakovica where no organized program is currently implemented, and, in addition, in two further
municipalities, to be determined. In the first three mentioned municipalities, 1988 tractors were lost and
-43 -



1778 damaged, 34 combine harvesters were lost and 42 damaged, 1228 single-axle or pedestrian tractors
were lost and 500 damaged.
With a budget of about US$765,000 for the first three mentioned municipalities, it is estimated that about
800 tractors and 30 combine harvesters could be repaired. The program will start with a survey and
assessment of damaged machinery, followed by the implementation of the repair exercise: in general the
least expensive (Category I, i.e. replacement of tires, batteries, belts and hoses) tractors will be repaired
first, followed by those more difficult (Category II, i.e. Category I plus engine peripherals (starter, injector
pump, alternator, radiator, etc.) plus minor damage). Category III tractors (Category II but with damage to
major components (engine, gearbox, etc.) will be repaired only when there is an exceptional tractor deficit
in a particular village.
GOAL, an NGO that will possibly provide farm mechanization repair services under the project, has
expressed interest in being the implementing NGO for the program. GOAL is also the NGO that has the
longest track record on tractor repair (having started by repairing tractors belonging to refugees in
Albania). GOAL has built up a considerable technical expertise in assessment of damage, the least-cost
means of acquiring quality spare parts and in the supervision of repair work. This NGO has nurtured the
existing private-enterprise supply and servicing infrastructure by buying spare parts through local suppliers
and by encouraging local mechanics and service outlets.
The following process will be implemented by the NGO undertaking farm repair services:
(i)    A survey of damaged tractors and combines in the three municipalities. This will include an
examination of tractors and identification of their categories as well as parts to be provided for their repair.
The results of the survey of machinery status will be analyzed to produce a municipal work program and an
indication of the order in which to proceed with repair. Combine harvester repairs will be given initial
priority. The tractor and combine harvester damage assessment report will include a list of spare parts
needed for each tractor and combine harvester in the respective municipality in which tractor and combine
harvester repairs will subsequently be carried out.
(ii)    The NGO will conduct a survey of suppliers of spare parts. The purpose of this survey will be to
(i) collect unit prices of spare parts that will be need for tractor repairs, and (ii) register suppliers to supply
spare parts to farmers. The registration will be based on the demonstrated reliability of the suppliers, his
stock of spare parts, reliability and willingness to accept the payment procedure described below. Based on
the survey of prices and the NGOs own historical price data, the NGO will prepare a list of spare parts
along with their unit rates. This list will be made available to farmers and suppliers. Farmers will be able to
purchase their spare parts from any of the registered suppliers.
(iii)   A voucher will be prepared in triplicate for each individual beneficiary having repairs undertaken
to his/her tractor or combine harvester. The voucher will include the list of the spare parts needed for the
repair of the beneficiary's tractor. One copy of the voucher will be given to the beneficiary, one copy will
be provided to the suppliers of the farmer's choice, and one will be retained by the NGO. The beneficiary
will collect its spare parts from the supplier in exchange for the voucher which the supplier will
counter-check with its own copy of the voucher. The supplier will submit an invoice to the NGO along with
his copy and the beneficiary's copy of the voucher. The NGO will validate the payment. The NGO will also
conduct frequent spot checks to ensure that the spare parts are being used for the purpose intended and the
tractors repaired and operational.
(iv) In cases where the damage to the tractor or combine requires the services of a mechanic, the NGO will
include an estimate of the labor units in its damage assessment report. The NGO will develop a list of
-44 -



registered workshops within the municipality and maintain updated standard labor rates for routine repair
tasks. Vouchers will be issued in the way described above with the difference that they would now be
prepared in quadruplicate with an extra copy being given to the NGO-selected mechanic named on the
fourth voucher. Spare parts will be supplied in the normal way (described above) and in addition the
mechanic will redeem his labor payment on completion of the job by submitting his voucher and the invoice
directly to the NGO for certification. There will be close supervision (by NGO technicians) of a mechanic's
progress in these jobs.
(v)    In the few cases where specialized workshop services are required (machining for engine overhaul,
diesel pump calibration) this will be authorized and the work supervised directly by the NGO. Again, a
standard unit rate list will be maintained by the NGO who will certify the specialist service provider's
invoice on satisfactorily completing the work.
(vi)   The beneficiary will be asked to allow the use of his/her tractor in the field of neighbors for no
more than the cost of fuel as a cost recovery measure and in order to spread of benefits. However, there is
no means to systematically enforce this from outside (other than through spot checks) and the compliance
to this commitment will rely on the local social pressure of secondary beneficiaries;
(vii)   The NGO will report monthly to the FAO PMT on the progress, including amongst others, number
of tractors and combines repaired and their unit costs, operational constraints.
Supply of new tractors and implements. (US$5.5 million / US$2.0). Type of equipment: A total of one
hundred and twenty 45hp tractors (slightly larger than the current most popular tractor used in Kosovo),
each with a set of implements (2 furrow plough disk harrow, spike tooth harrow and 3-tonne trailer) will be
delivered to the three municipalities of Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac and Decan/Decane in three
tranches between September and October. Tractors will be procured by Limited Intemational Bidding
(LIB). A tractor and matching set of implements will ensure that new tractor recipients are entirely in a
position to undertake all major agricultural activities and therefore to carry out their cost-recovery
responsibilities.
Logistics. The PMT will be in charge of procuring the tractors and implements and organize, in junction
with the suppliers, the delivery to agreed points in the concemed municipalities. The contracted NGO will
assist in the preparation of the pre-delivery documentation and the logistics of distribution: a secure
hard-standing area for the storage of machinery will have been arranged, as will the hire of a heavy duty
fork-lift truck for lifting implements and, if needed, a ramp for offloading tractors. Offloading will proceed
and each tractor will be attached to its trailer on which the cultivation implements will be loaded. Delivery
Notes and Invoices will be checked against serial numbers and an inspection of each machine undertaken to
certify that it has been delivered complete and with no breakage or defects. Prior to distribution, the
supplier's instructor will provide a day's tuition to the primary beneficiaries.
Cost Recovery. Prior to the delivery, the consultation process will have resulted in the selection of
secondary beneficiary groups for tractor services, i.e. people with little means of cultivating their land who
will be eligible to receive services from the pieces of equipment supplied by the project. These groups will
each have made their own selection of a primary beneficiary (recipient of the tractor and implements) on
the grounds that he/she is the most likely person to deliver cultivation services to them (i.e. the cost
recovery program) in exchange for no more than the fuel consumed by the tractor for the service. Primary
beneficiaries will be bound by contract to carry out these cost recovery obligations, which can be
summarized as the land preparation of 60ha of land in the first four cultivation seasons, i.e. 2 years. This is
estimated to correspond to a value of about 50% of the value of the pieces of equipment which will have
-45 -



been distributed. This will provide a significant sharing of the benefits of the equipment within the village
(around 20 secondary beneficiaries per tractor), but not excessive so as to allow the owner of the tractor to
maintain it properly by leaving himn/her enough time to generate additional income (his cost recovery
obligations are estimated to occupy about 2/3 of the capacity of the equipment).
Liability, insurance, ownership. The financial responsibility for the delivery and distribution of the
equipment will remain with supplier until the distribution to the final beneficiaries. To cover
after-distribution risks, FAO will provide block cover by an international insurance broker. Ownership
certificates will also be signed by project beneficiaries. These ownership certificates will indicate that title
to the tractor and implements will not pass on to the primary beneficiary until July 2002, and only if he/she
has fully satisfied his/her obligations to the secondary beneficiaries and the local community. Both,
contracts and the ownership certificates will be retained by FAO PMT.
Means to ensure cost recovery. Each primary beneficiary will publicly sign a contract acknowledging his
obligations and will not get title to his tractor until the obligations have been fulfilled. A tractor logbook,
which records the agreed cultivation program, names of recipients, plot sizes and the order of work will be
used. Secondary beneficiaries will be given a voucher which the primary beneficiary will redeem when
he/she has satisfactorily delivered agreed service. During the autumn and spring seasons the NGO
municipal mechanization technician will spend extensive time supervising the activities of the primary
beneficiaries within his municipality. Signs of non-perfonnance will be spotted early. The whole process
will be transparent with copies of the cultivation timetable being on public display. Social pressure will
also be a factor in ensuring compliance.
Main tasks of the implementing NGO will include: (a) to meet regularly with both primary and secondary
beneficiaries to ensure a full understanding between the two parties and to work out a cultivation (cost
recovery) program for the coming season; (b) to give full time assistance to the delivery and distribution
exercise for farm machinery as required; (c) to closely supervise the performance of primary beneficiaries
in carrying out their cost recovery services during the autumn and spring cultivation seasons; and (d)
monthly reports to FAO, with weekly updates during the cultivation season.
Project Component 4 - US$0.90 million
Capacity Building Support (Full cost: US$0.9 million / Initial Phase: US$0.9 million)
UNMIK's current capacity to analyze agriculture issues, formulate sector policies, and translate them into
actions either through regulations or the design of programs is limited. UNMIK structures have now
evolved towards the sharing of responsibilities between the international staff of UNMIK and local
Kosovar in the form of 20 departments within JIAS (Joint Interim Administration Structure), of which the
Department of Agriculture (DOA).
Under the Emergency Farrn Reconstruction Project, a small number of international agriculture policy
analysts would be recruited to work for the DOA on agriculture policy formulation, staff training and
institutional capacity building. The international experts would be paired with Kosovar professionals from
the DOA to ensure relevance and acceptability of future policies and to allow for on-the-job training of
national experts. This core team of national and international policy analysts would also be responsible for
compiling a sound agriculture database within UNMIK based on survey and other information collection
efforts undertaken by different donors (such as under the ongoing FAO/WFP agriculture and food security
surveillance project implemented under the umbrella of the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit in Pristina).
-46 -



During the preparation phase a detailed training programn for the Kosovar staff of the Department of
Agriculture will be developed, including overseas training and in-country courses to be carried out by
international experts. Priority policy areas to be supported by the technical assistance under the project will
include, inter alia, (a) agriculture trade policies; (b) measures required to pave the way for investments in
irrigation rehabilitation in the near term; (c) measures required to enable autonomous farm associations to
thrive, and (d) measures required to permit the development of micro-finance, and possibly, commercial
non-bank credit.
The team of international experts will subsequently be recruited by the PMT during July/August 2000 and
start to work under the DOA in September 2000. It will address immediate needs in terms of policy
decisions, urgent regulations, price policy, public services, statistics, etc. and advise on these issues. For
specific areas, additional specialized technical assistance will provide support for short term periods. In
addition, the DOA is moving to premises that that have been damaged during the conflict; these premises
require some refurbishing which will equally be provided.
Project Component 5 - US$3.10 million
Project Management (Full cost: US$3.1 million / Initial Phase: US$1.9 million)
Implementing the above activities in the current environment in Kosovo to acceptable technical and
fiduciary standards poses considerable management challenges. To meet these challenges, a Project
Management Team (PMT) made up of a blend of local and international staff will be established and
placed under the umbrella of the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit in Pristina. The PMT will be
supported by technical expertise, and will implement activities in close collaboration with selected
international and local NGOs.
FAO and FAO Emergency Coordination Unit. FAO will be responsible for implementing and managing
this operation. With support from FAO Headquarters, the FAO/ECU in Pristina will implement all project
components in coordination with UNMIK, and be responsible for procurement, financial management and
disbursements. The FAO/ECU was established in Pristina shortly after the end of the conflict in Kosovo
during July 1999, and has since had an impressive track record in executing FAO relief operations as well
as in coordinating numerous NGOs implementing agriculture relief activities during the Summer and Fall
of 1999. FAO is currently implementing key preparation and project-start-up activities for the EFRP under
a service agreement between UNMIK and FAO, funded by IDA under a project preparation grant. As a
result, the FAO/ECU will be considerably strengthened under the EFRP in terms of staff and office
infrastructure over the coming months to ensure efficient implementation in a challenging post-conflict
environment. UNMIK and FAO will enter a second service agreement for the implementation of this project
(or agree to amendments to the service agreement covering the preparation and start-up phase).
Project Management Team. To strengthen the FAO/ECU to implement and manage the project, FAO is
establishing a Project Management Team (PMT) during the on-going preparation and initial start-up phase.
The PMT will carry out implementation and project management under the supervision of the FAO
Emergency Coordinator in Pristina (who is the Head of the Kosovo-based FAO/ECU) and relevant
technical departments at FAO Headquarters. The PMT will be managed by an international tearn leader
and a Kosovar deputy team leader, and provide for procurement and financial management expertise, as
well as support staff. To carry out technical implementation, FAO will recruit international and local
expertise in the following areas: (i) veterinary and livestock expertise, (ii) farm mechanization, (iii)
monitoring and evaluation, and (iv) rural sociology. To the extent possible, each of these positions and
tasks (with the exception of support staff) will be co-administered by an international expert and a local
Kosovar, in consultation with UNMIK. The PMT will also be provided with office equipment and vehicles.
-47 -



PMT staff and of other technical expertise, including NGOS, will be recruited under the responsibility of
FAO.
Annex 2A Selection of Municipalities
The selection of the municipalities has been conducted in accordance with UNMIK on the basis of three
selection criteria:
(i)    Damages on private houses: for each municipality the percentage of 'heavily damaged houses'
(defined as the percentage of houses in damage categories m and IV defined by IMG) has been calculated
(IMG housing damage survey).
(ii)    The percentage of losses of cattle has been collected in the eight municipalities by UNMIK.
(iii) The percentage of losses of tractors was also gathered by UNMIK in the concerned municipalities.
As shown in the following Table, the three parameters have been combined by allocating a weight of 33%
to each in order to obtain a 'rural damage indicator' (RDI) on the basis of which the eight municipalities
have been ranked. On this basis and in view of not excessively diluting the limited available assets to be
distributed under this first project phase (US$11.8 million), the three first municipalities of
Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac and Decan/Decane have been selected to receive cattle and tractors.
Selection of Municipalities
Skenderaj  Gliogoc    Decan    Vushtrri    Kline   Peje     Istog    Gjakove  Average
Srbica   Glogovac  Decane   Vucitim    Klina     Pec  -stok   Diakovica
Damages on Houses      75%       59%      70%       52%       50%       63%      60%       45%    59%
Damages on Cattle      67%       77%      70%       69%       65%       64%      71%       48%    68%
Damages on Farm
Machinery              81%       81%      64%       78%       81%       54%      41%       58%    69%
Overall Rural
Damage Indicator       74%       73%      68%       67%       65%       60%      57%       51%    65%
Rank according to
RDI                       1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Costs by Component
1.~ ~ Suprtt.e-establishing    TLivestock  11.80       47%    | 4.40            37% /   0  4.40       44%/
the Cattle Herd                      
2. Rehabilitation of Veterinary  Livestock    1.30        5%          1.30         11%         0.40       4%
Services
3. Farn Machinery Repair and    Agriculture    7.90       32%0   |   3.30          28%         3.30       33%
Replacement
a)Tractor and Combine Repairs   Agriculture    2.40       10%/0       1.30          11%        1.30       13%
b) Replacement of Tractors and  Agriculture   5.50        22%         2.00          17%        2.00       20%
Implements
4. Institution Capacity Building    Instit. Dev.    0.90  4%          0.90          8%         0.00       0%
S. ProjectManagement           Instit. Dev.    3.10       12%         1.90         16%         1.90       19%
Total Project Costs              25.00       100%   |   11.80         100%       10.00       100%
The Netherlands Co-financing                  1.80    _               1.80
Total Financing Still Required                13.20                   0.00
-49 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
In the absence of detailed agronomic data that reflect current farming practices, cropping patterns, farm
asset use, etc. only a simple quantitative economic analysis has been carried out aiming to reflect main
costs and benefits associated with this project. The assumptions used for the analysis are presented below
and are considered to be conservative. The analysis is presented for the initial project phase implemented
in the three most damaged municipalities (i.e. US$11.8 million). Project activities in these three
municipalities (including province-wide rehabilitation of veterinary services, and capacity building of the
Agriculture Department) will benefit a estimated 12,000 families. Around five-thousand households will
directly benefit as primary or secondary beneficiaries from the cattle restocking and farm mechaization
activities. A firther estimated 7,000 households will benefit from improved veterinary services provided.
Each additional municipality included under the EFRP would increase the number of beneficiaries by a
futher estimated 1,700 families.
The Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated at around US$3.6 million (over a ten years period discounted at
an opportunity cost of capital assumed at 10 percent), while the Interal Rate of Return is estimated at
around 21 percent.
Year I    Year 2  ~Ye3          Year 4     Yea 5     Year 6     Year7      Year 8    Year 9     Yer 10
A. Incremental Benefits
Incremental value crop
,roduction (newmnery)  1,701,0001 1,701,00   1 70100  ..1,701,00 0   1,701,00  1,17701,00  1701,00  1,701,0001  1,701,0001  1,701,000'
production (machinery
repair)                     7,560,000  7,560,000, 7,560,000. 7,560,000. 7,560,000  7, 560000  7560,000  7,560,000  7,560,000  7,560,0001
incremental value of
lIvestock                  1,644500  1,516894  1,947,213  2177 806  2,505,994  2,86608  3282,058  3,757,439  4,301,9344
TotalBenefi.s   10,905,5  10,777894 11,208,213 1143880  11766     12?127,018 12,543,058 13,018,439 13,562,934 14186,269
B. Incremental Costs                                     .
...... ...... ...... ..... - ..... ............ ....   . ..... ..   ... ...... ...... ..... .- .... ...... ...   .. ...... ........... ...... .-......... ...... ...... ..   ... .....
I ncremental crop prodction
:costs(newmachinery)  1    15600  1,560 600  1,560600  1,560600  1560600           606    1,560600  1560600  1,560600  1560600
Increased crop production
osts(machineryrepa.r)    6,936,000  6,936,000  6,936,000  6,936,00   6,93600   693600  693600   6936  0  6936000  6936000
Incremental livestock
productioncosts            1039600   874168  1122156  1,255043  1444174  1651652  1891411  2165368  2479153  2838374
*Investments: cattle, new
;tractors, repairs, veterinary
* services               . 8,600,000.
.TotalCosts               18136,200  9370768. 9618756. 9751643- 9940774-10148,252 10388011 10661968 10975753 11,334974
; .......................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .              ...;*- .              ----*----...  ----- - ---
*NetIncrementalBenefits
*(A-B)                    .-7X230X700. 1,407,126> 1,589,457  1,687162- 1,826,219. 1978766  2,1550471 2,356472. 2587,181. 2851,295
Net Present Value          3,588694.
lRR                             0.21*
- 50 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The main benefits and costs associated to the project have been considered in the economic analysis. These
are the benefits and costs associated to (a) increased crop production through the supply of new and the
repair of broken machinery and (b) increased milk production and production of offspring. However, there
are more benefits of the project which have not been included in the analysis as they are either very limited
in scope or difficult to quantify. These benefits are the veterinary component (the component is only
considered to the extent to which it provides services to the distributed cows), the capacity building
component and the provision of community services as part of the cost recovery scheme of the machinery
component.
The benefits of the farm machinerv supplied and repaired is measured through its impact on the cultivated
area. It is further assumed that sufficient input supply would then enable the farmers to grow crops.
Therefore, benefits of the machinery component (repair and replacements) are reflected through the
increased production values generated by the use of the machinery. The benefits of machinery are limited to
their benefits in crop cultivation in the calculation. There are additional benefits through their use during
harvesting time and for transport purposes.
The benefits of the livestock component is measured in terms of (a) increased milk production, (b) cattle
restocking potential and (c) the value of male off-spring. These benefits are reflected through (a) the value
of the additional milk produced, (b) a simple herd model which quantifies the progressing of female calves
in the breeding process and finally provides for the value in growth of off-spring and milk; and (c) the value
of young male calves. It is assumed that the distributed cows will be used for re-breeding purposes and
-able to produce low to average milk yields under the given circumstances in Kosovo.
All cost were estimated using prices for inputs and goods prevailing in Kosovo at year end 1999. The price
for crops are border prices, i.e. international prices adjusted for transport and insurance. International
prices are taken from world market price forecasts for the year 2000. Crop yields and milk production data
are taken from average yields prevailing before the conflict. Local costs have been converted into US$
using the exchange rate of 1 US$ = 2 DEM.
Main Assumptions:
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
Machinery Component:
*  The replaced assets will result in a one-time, incremental 5,400 ha being cultivated annually. An
additional 1,800 ha of cultivated land per year can be expected for every additional supported
municipality (45 ha per tractor per year).
*   The machinery repair component is expected to repair around 800 tractors in three municipalities
resulting in a fiurther, one-time incremental 24,000 ha that can be cultivated annually (30 ha per tractor
- lower than for new machinery as productivity of machines is lower).
*  It is assumed that the additional area will be planted with winter and summer grains at an average yield
of 3 tons per hectare (average yield in Kosovo) at an average price of US$105 per ton. The price
represent a world market price forecast for the upcoming 2000 harvesting season adjusted for transport
and insurance.
-51 -



*   The production costs (including farm inputs, fuel and routine machinery maintenance, labor) for grain
have been assumed to be around 90% of their value of production.
Livestock Component:
*   The livestock component will give direct benefits to 2,300 farm households who lost all their cattle.
The component has two benefits: (i) the availability of milk and (ii) the cow and its offspring. The
increased availability of milk will directly improve the diet of the more vulnerable households. The cow
and the calf enable households to restart livestock production who would not be able to do so
otherwise. Access milk, if marketed, creates an additional income source for the family.
*   The reproductive rate of a cow has conservatively been assumed to be 1.3. This takes possible fertility
problems of cows living in a difficult environment into consideration. A (higher than anticipated)
mortality rate of 10% is assumed.
*   It is assumed that 50% of the off-spring are female. The female calves give birth to their first calf and
provide milk at the age of around 24 months. Male calves are sold immediately upon birth - and hence
valued for the purpose of this analysis - at a price of US$200. Female calves are kept for re-breeding,
contributing to the build-up of the cattle herd.
   The cows are assumed to produce 2,500 liters of milk on average per year. The economic value of milk
is estimated at around US$0.25 per liter.
*   The off-spring is assumed to consume 1,000 liter per calf annually (5 liter over 200 days). Besides
rooming on pasture (no economic costs have been imputed), the cows are additionally fed with hey and
concentrate (US$150 annually).
3   The investment costs consist of the cost of the farm machinery repairs and replacements, the cost of
providing livestock, and the cost of rehabilitating and providing veterinary services in three
municipalities (US$8.6 million)
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
N/A
- 52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
In the absence of quantitative data reflecting agronomic practices, farm asset use, cropping pattern, etc. and
given the emergency nature of this operation, no quantitative analysis, based, for instance, on farm models,
is provided. Cost recovery levels have been established such that farm mechanization and veterinary
services will be provided to the community while at the same time allowing a reasonable return to owners.
Farm Mechanization: Cost recovery on the asset value of the tractor and set of implements will be
obtained by the primary beneficiary carrying out cultivation operations for a group of secondary
beneficiaries within the community. This cultivation will be carried out without payment, except that the
secondary beneficiaries will provide fuel for the tractor. It is important that the correct balance is struck
between the primary beneficiary's ability to earn an income from his machinery and this non-income
generating cost recovery obligations to the secondary beneficiaries. If the cost recovery target is set too
low, then the communities will not receive the full potential benefit of new machinery supplied under the
project. If the cost recovery target is set too high the primary beneficiary may fail to comply because he
cannot cover the operating expenses from his/her other tractor earnings. The proposed level of cost
recovery is to complete cultivation on 15 hectares per season (based on one ploughing and two harrowing
operations) for the first four cultivation seasons that is, 60 ha over the first two years. Additional cost
recovery is proposed by the primary beneficiary providing his tractor and trailer for six days per year (for
the first two years) for haulage tasks for the general benefit of the community. Details of this obligation
would be decided on by the village committee (and fuel would be provided for the tractor). Using prevailing
rates for land preparation operations the value of cost recovery can be calculated as follows:
Ploughing 60 ha at DM100 per ha               DM 6,000
1st harrowing 60 ha at DM75 per ha            DM 4,500
2nd harrowing 60 ha at DM75 per ha            DM 4,500
12 days haulage work with tractor and trailer  DM 1,200
at DM 100/day
less 15% for the tractor fuel supplied        DM 2,430
Cost recovery                                DM 13,770
or                                            US$ 7,250
This is over 50% of the cost of the machinery to be provided in two years and would be close to 100% of
the cost of the popular LMT 539 tractor. In terms of the capacity of the tractor 15 hectares of cultivation is
equivalent to about 2/3 of the tractor's overall seasonal capacity. This would leave the primary beneficiary
with the opportunity to earn an income from the remaining third of his/her land preparation capacity and
from haulage work with the trailer out of season. The income would be such that a surplus remains after
the overall running costs of the tractor (including repair and maintenance for the cost recovery work) are
accounted for. The primary beneficiary will not make a high income from the tractor during the initial two
years. However, once he/she has discharged his obligations to the secondary beneficiaries and the
community at the end of year 2 the tractor and implements become his own property. This in itself should
be sufficient incentive to fulfill his cost recovery obligations.
- 53 -



Veterinary Equipment: This significant capital contribution of equipment, veterinary drugs, Al equipment
and bovine semen to private practices in all municipalities will have a repayment in kind condition of 30%
of the asset value through the provision of free veterinary visits and artificial insemination services to non
project farmers. This will provide around 250 farmers in each municipality with free veterinary visits and
inseminations to cattle and general livestock, based on an average cost of DM 15 per visitation and AI
service. The 10%/o sample monitoring of the services to be provided by veterinarians free of charge will be
undertaken by the FAO Project Management Team using farm and veterinary recording procedures detailed
in the Project Implementation Plan. Services provided to farmers beyond those required under the cost
recovery provisions will be paid according to the current prices for veterinary treatments in Kosovo. The
envisaged level of cost recovery, therefore, allows the veterinarians sufficient possibility of income
generation through additional paid treatments.
-54 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods, works, and technical services will be done in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services for technical assistance and
training will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Procurement
financed with funds provided from co-financing sources will also be conducted in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the
UN in June 2000.
Procurement Resuonsibilitv. UNMIK has overall responsibility for project implementation, including
procurement. For this purpose, UNMIK will enter into a service contract (on a sole-source basis) with
FAO for implementing this project on UNMK's behalf. FAO is already managing several operations in
Kosovo for the reconstruction of agricultural activities, as well as the preparation of this project under a
contract between UNMIK and FAO funded by a project preparation grant from IDA. The terms and
conditions of the service contract will be satisfactory to the Bank. The contract will be fnanced with
project grant funds.
Since this is a co-financed project, more donor funds are expected to finance project activities. As and when
these funds become available, UNMK and FAO will sign an amendment to the service contract referred to
in preceding paragraph to ensure smooth implementation of project activities to be financed with such
funds. Any amendment to the contract will be subject to Bank's prior review and acceptance.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, civil works, technical services, and consulting services.
Procurement needs of the project have been identified and agreed during project appraisal. A detailed
procurement plan for these needs is prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). During
project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months.
-55-



Table A: Procurement Table
Expenditure Category
(In US$ Million equilavent estimate)
ICB      NCB            Other        N. B. F.      Total Cost
1. Goods                       -         -                5.64        1.05                6.69
-               (5.64)        -   a             (5.64)
2. Civil Works                  -        -                0.06        0.15                0.21
-               (0.06)        -                 (0.06)
3. Technical Services           -        -                1.20         -                  1.20
-               (1.20)        -   c             (1.20)
4. Consulting Services          -        -                1.65        0.60                2.25
(1.65)            d            (1.65)
5. Increm. Operating Costs      -        -                1.45         -                  1.45
(1.45)       -                 (1.45)
Totals                          -        -               10.00        1.80               11.80
Totals (IDA)                    -        -              (10.00)        -                (10.00)
% IDA                           0%    0%                  100%          0%                85%
% type                          0%        0%               85%         15%               100%
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank grant. All costs included contingencies. Figures may not total exady due to
rounding.
a Goods: 3 LIB contracts (US$6.17 million, of which IDA US$5.5 million); and 4 IS contracts (US$0.55
million, IDA US$0.14)
b Civil works: 2 MW contracts (US$0.21 million, IDA US$0.06)
C Technical Services: 3 DC contracts (US$0.44, IDA US$0.44); 1 contract for for tractor repairs
(US$0.75, IDA US$0.75) and 1 NS contracts (US$ 0.01, IDA US$0.01)
d Consultant Services: 1 QCBS contract (US$0.6 million, IDA US$0); 1 QBS contract (US$0.52, IDA
US$0.52) 3 SS contracts (US$0.44 million, IDA US$0.44 million); several IND contracts (US$0.46
million, IDA US$0.46 million); and Training (US$ 0.23, IDA US$0.23)
e Incremental Operating Costs: 1 management contract with FAO (US$1.45 million, IDA
US$1.45 million
- 56 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.60      0.52      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.67      0.00       1.79
(0.00)    (0.52)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.67)    (0.00)    (1 .19)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.46      0.00       0.46
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.46)    (0.00)    (0.46)
Total   0.60      0.52      0.00      0.00      0.00       1.13      0.00      2.25
(0.00)    (0.52)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.13)    (0.00)    (1.65)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Thresholds
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to Table A: Procurement
Table):
(i)   ICB for goods = US$ 200,000 or more per contract
(ii)   LIB will be used for the procurement of tractors, cattle, and veterinary equipment. A list of
suppliers will be prepared and bidding documents will be sent to them by special courier. Bidders
will be allowed fifteen working days to prepare and submit their bids. Single currency will be used.
No bid security will be required. In order to ensure a widespread geographical distribution, a
minimum of 10 suppliers will be invited.
(iii)  International Shopping will be used for contracts estimated at less than $200,000 per contract. (IS
can be used to procure equipment and materials which are off the shelf and do not require after sale
service, warranties, etc.. The award shall be made on the basis of at least three Suppliers from two
countries.).
(iv)   National Shopping = Less than US$20,000 per contract (based on minimum three quotations from
domestic suppliers);
(v)    Direct contracting will be used for the following technical services contracts:
- 57 -



(a)     Cattle holding station. This will be a single-source contract with the Swiss Development
and Corporation Agency, a registered NGO in Kosovo, which manages and operates the animal
quarantine station in the vicinity of Pristina airport. No other such facilities are available.
(b)     Contract for veterinary services. In each of the municipalities where cattle is provided
under the project, one veterinary practice, consisting of 24 veterinarians, provides veterinary
services within the administrative boundaries of the municipality. A service contract will be entered
separately with each of the veterinary practices to provide veterinary and artificial insemination
services for the cattle distributed under the project. The contract will be monitored by the NGO
operating in the respective municipality, i.e., Action Against Hunger in Skenderaj/Srbica and
Gllogic/Glogovac, and Mercy Corps International in Decan/Decani.
(c)     Animal nutrition support contract. This technical services contract will involve training,
specialist advice, and supplementary concentrate feeding of two kg per cow during 100 days after
the delivery of the cow. These services will be provided by the Swiss Development and Corporation
Agency, the only NGO available to provide these services.
(d)     Distribution of farm  machinery. Suppliers of new  farm  machinery (tractors and
implements) will deliver the goods to the municipal center towns. In the towns, one farm
mechanization dealer workshop will be selected to provide technical services (assembly of parts,
inspection of equipment) prior to distribution of the equipment to farners. The scarcity of
dealers/workshops within a given municipal center town requires sole-source selection.
Repair of Tractors and Combine Harvesters. An NGO experienced in farm machinery repairs will be
selected. The NGO will prepare a tractor and combine harvester damage assessment report, including a list
of spare parts needed for each tractor and combine harvester in the respective municipality in which tractor
and combine harvester repairs will subsequently be carried out. The NGO will conduct a survey of suppliers
of spare parts. The purpose of this survey will be to (i) collect unit prices of spare parts that will be need for
tractor repairs, and (ii) register suppliers to supply spare parts to farmers. The registration will be based on
the demonstrated reliability of the suppliers, his stock of spare parts, reliability and willingness to accept the
payment procedure described below. Based on the survey of prices and the NGOs own historical price data,
the NGO will prepare a list of spare parts along with their unit rates. This list will be made available to
farmers and suppliers. Farmers will be able to purchase their spare parts from any of the registered
suppliers.
A voucher will be prepared in triplicate for each individual beneficiary having repairs undertaken to his/her
tractor or combine harvester. The voucher will include the list of the spare parts needed for the repair of the
beneficiary's tractor. One copy of the voucher will be given to the beneficiary, one copy will be provided to
the suppliers of the farmer's choice, and one will be retained by the NGO. The beneficiary will collect its
spare parts from the supplier in exchange for the voucher which the supplier will counter-check with its
own copy of the voucher. The supplier will submit an invoice to the NGO along with his copy and the
beneficiary's copy of the voucher. The NGO will validate the payment. The NGO will also conduct
frequent spot checks to ensure that the spare parts are being used for the purpose intended and the tractors
repaired and operational.
In cases where the damage to the tractor or combine requires the services of a mechanic, the NGO will
include an estimate of the labor units in its damage assessment report. The NGO will develop a list of
registered workshops within the municipality and maintain updated standard labor rates for routine repair
- 58 -



tasks. Vouchers will be issued in the way described above with the difference that they would now be
prepared in quadruplicate with an extra copy being given to the NGO-selected mechanic named on the
fourth voucher. Spare parts will be supplied in the normal way (described above) and in addition the
mechanic will redeem his labor payment on completion of the job by submitting his voucher and the invoice
directly to the NGO for certification. There will be close supervision (by NGO technicians) of a mechanic's
progress in these jobs.
In the few cases where specialized workshop services are required (machining for engine overhaul, diesel
pump calibration) this will be authorized and the work supervised directly by the NGO. Again, a standard
unit rate list will be maintained by the NGO who will certify the specialist service provider's invoice on
satisfactorily completing the work.
Procurement of Minor Works. Works will be procured through Minor Works under
lump-sum, fixed-price or unit rate contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from at least three qualified local contractors in response to local advertisement . The
bidding document shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement consistent with
the standard document cleared by the Bank, and relevant drawings where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract. The contract will also stipulate that minimum environmental standards in civil
works are adhered to.
Procurement of Consultants. Consultants Services will be procured through the Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) procedures. These services shall be advertised in the GPN in the Development Business
and in a national newspaper for expression of interest, from which a shortlist will be drawn. Individuals
experts will be selected in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. Project management
contract with FAO will be concluded on a sole-source basis.
To coordinate agriculture relief and reconstruction efforts in Kosovo, intemational NGOs have agreed to
operate in defined geographical areas of responsibilities (AOR). Provided that a given international NGO
can provide services in its AORs, other international NGOs will not accept assignments in AORs outside of
their own. The aforementioned and the detailed knowledge of NGOs of local conditions in their respective
AOR provides the rationale to select international NGOs on a sole source basis to provide support services
for the following contracts:
(i)    Contracts for distribution of cattle to farmers-recipients selected under a consultative beneficiary
selection process; livestock advisory service, including pre- and post-delivery training to farmers and
veterinarians; monitoring of cattle conditions as well as supervision for veterinary services. These
contracts will be entered into with Action Against Hunger (AAH) for the municipalities of Skenderaj and
Gllogic, and with Mercy Corps International (MCI) for the municipality of Decan. These two international
NGOS have been operating in Kosovo for nearly a year in this area of responsibility.
(ii)  Contracts for distribution of agriculture machinery to farmers-recipients selected under a consultative
beneficiary selection process; monitoring and enforcement of contractual obligations on the part of
recipient-farmers (i.e. cost recovery). These contracts will be entered into with AAH and MCI for the
municipalities mentioned in preceding paragraph.
- 59 -



During appraisal, the task team held discussions with the intemational NGOs operating agriculture relief
and reconstruction efforts in Kosovo with a view to ascertaining their interest in the above-mentioned
contracts. Only the NGOs listed above expressed their willingness to undertake these services in the
selected project municipalities. The NGOs have declined to operate outside their respective current AOR,
and the task team feels that intemational NGOs not currently operating in the agriculture sector in Kosovo
will not be interested in undertaking such assignments.
An NGO experienced in farm machinery rehabilitation will be selected through QBS. For this purpose a
notice for expression of interest will be published in the Development Business (website) and in
international press.
Prior Review Thresholds
(i)     All ICB and LIB contracts for goods and technical services
(ii)    All consultants contracts US$200,000 or more each (full review)
(iii)    All contracts with consulting firms estimated to US$100,000 or more each (partial review)
(iv)    All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$50,000 or more.
(v)     All consultant contracts based on sole-sourcing
Table B: Prior Thresholds
Contract Value             Contracts Subject
Threshold    Procurement  to Prior Review
Expenditure Category  (US$ thousands)   Method      (US$ millions)
1. Goods/Technical
Services                     All          LIB                 6.14
All          DC                  0.44
2. Consulting Services      >100         QCBS                  0.6
>100         QBS                  0.69
All          SS                  0.44
>30          IND                  0.15
Total Value of contracts subject to prior review   8.31
% of Total Cost          68%
Post Review Ratio. One in five contracts.
-60 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of two years. The anticipated completion date is June
30, 2001 and the closing date is December 31, 2001. Disbursements will follow normal Bank procedures
and will be made against eligible expenditures.
UNMIK as the recipient of the grant will delegate authority to submit withdrawal applications to FAO.
FAO will operate under a service agreement concluded with UNNIIK which will have been reviewed by the
Bank. Due to the short duration of this project, disbursements will proceed under traditional disbursement
procedures. The FAO will be provided with an advance up to six months of anticipated expenditures
(excluding expenditures associated with delivery contracts for cattle and tractors). This advance will be
justified to the Bank quarterly on the basis of full documentation for contracts above the prior-review
thresholds and on the basis of Statement of Expenditures for expenditures below the prior-review threshold
(see section on SOEs below).
Disbursements associated with delivery contracts for cattle and tractors with a minimum value of US$1.0
million will be made using Bank Special Commitments, as described in the Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, Chapter 4.
Table D
Amount in
Expenditure Category                    US$million       Financing Percentage
Goods, incl. technical services and           6.00               100%
local transport
Consultant's services, incl. training         1.40               100%
Works                                         0.10               100%
Incremental Operating Costs                   1.30               100%
Unallocated                                   1.20
Total IDA Grant       10.00
TOTAL Project Costs        25.00
Note: It is possible to finance 100% of expenditures as all activities under this project will be exempt from
taxes
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods including technical services contracts
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each, (b) consultants contracts with firms less than US$100,000;
(c) for services of individuals costing US$50,000 equivalent or less each; and (d) all incremental operating
cost, training expenditures and contracts for works. Full documentation in support of SOE will be retained
by FAO for at least two years after the closing date of the Grant. This information will be made available
- 61 -



for review to the Bank during project supervision and for audit by the project's auditors (see section on
project's audit arrangements below).
Special account:
No Special Account will be used for this operation.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: The overall responsibility for the financial management of the project
will rest with the FAO, with primary responsibility at its headquarters in Rome and secondary
responsibility at its Emergency Co-ordination Unit (FAO/ECU) in Pristina . The FAO already has various
teams of accountants to support the needs of the other projects being implemented by the FAO, and this
complement has been increased for the project, particularly with the recruitment of additional accounting
staff into the FAO/ECU. The Bank conducted a financial management assessment of the FAO and
concluded that the FAO's financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements
and is capable of producing the Bank's Project Management Reports. More details in respect of the
project's financial management arrangements, including the project's flow of funds, may be found within the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Financial management risks: The financial management capacity within Kosovo has not been assessed,
however, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist have
been mitigated by the use of the FAO for project implementation, including financial management, drawing
upon their experience of operations of this nature, and by the use of the FAO's External Auditor for the
audit of the project. In addition, the risks in the developing Kosovo banking sector have been mitigated by
the use by the FAO of the llNDP's cash facilities in Pristina.
Project Management Report (PMRs): The agreed indicative formats for the PMRs are included within the
Minutes of Negotiations and the FAO will produce these PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the
life of the project. No move to PMR-based disbursements is envisaged due to the relatively short duration
of the project.
Audit Arrangements: Agreement has been reached with UNMIiK and FAO that FAO's External Auditor
(i.e. currently the Cour des Comptes) will carry out annual audits for the project, on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank as presented within the Minutes of Negotiations. The receipt by the Bank through
FAO of the Cour des Comptes' formal confirmation to this effect is included as a Grant effectiveness
condition. The project's audited financial statements will be submitted within six months of the end of every
fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the Grant funds.
- 62 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8
First Bank mission (identification)            09/06/99
Appraisal mission departure                    01/11/2000
Negotiations                                   05/22/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/30/2000
Prepared by:
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations under the FAO / World Bank Cooperative
Program
Preparation assistance:
UNNIK was provided with a project preparation and start-up grant in the amount of US$565,000 on April
18, 2000 to be executed by the FAO
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Severin Kodderitzsch (TTL)       Agricultural Economist
Frauke Jungbluth                 Agricultural Economist
Gloria La Cava                   Sociologist
Naushad Khan                     Procurement
Ranjan Ganguli                   Financial Management Specialist
Gennady Pilch                    Legal Counsel
Barbara Santos                   Legal Counsel
Joseph Paul Formoso              Disbursement
Lynn Brown                       Agriculture Policy and Gender Issues
Stan Peabody                     Rural Sociologist
Jennifer Ngaine, Kathy Sharrow   Team Assistants
The following staff from participating agencies worked on the project:
Benoist Veillerette                   Agricultural Economist, FAO/CP
Yoshiko Ishihara                      Rural Sociologist, FAO/CP
Laurence Clarke                       Mechanization Expert, FAO
Nicholas Buck                         Livestock/Veterinary Expert, FAO/CP
Sharon Holt                           Cost Recovery, FAO/CP
Patrick Forrest                       Mechanization Expert, FAO/CP
Andrew Friend                         Livestock and Veterinnay Expert, FAO/CP
-63 -



The following staff from the Kosovo Advisory Committee supported the project:
Christiaan J. Poortman                 Country Director
Andrash Horvai                         Country Officer
Mary Sheehan                           Country Officer
Barbara Santos                         Legal Counsel
Sunil K. Bhattacharya                 Regional Procurement Advisor
Baelhadj Merghoub                      Operations Advisor
John Hegarty                           Financial Management
Marc Blanc                             Regional Operations Advisor
The peer reviewers were:
Michael F. Koch                   TRF
Colin Scott                       SDVPC
A Quality Enhancement Review was carried out by
David Steeds                      Agricultural Specialist, QAG
Tjaart Schillhom van Veen         Livestock and Veterinary Specialist (ECSSD)
-64 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project - Project Implementation Plan - Main Text and Annex A-J
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo
2.    Towards Stability and Prosperity - A Program for Reconstruction and Recovery in Kosovo
3.    Kosovo: Building Peace through Sustained Growth, The Economic and Social Policy Agenda
4.    Kosovo: Re-launching the Rural Economy
5.    Kosovo: Damage Assessment in Agriculture
6.    Financial Management Assessment - by Financial Management Specialist; April 30, 2000.
C. Other
Kosovo: Program for Reconstruction of Rural Economy (technical papers)
*     Livestock and Animal Health Services
*     Farm Mechanization
*     Agro-Industrial Sector
*     Irrigation and Water Management
*     Forestry
*     Rural Administration
*     Post-War Food Insecurity in Kosovo
*Including electronic files
- 65 -



