Report No. PID8999
Project Name                     Kosovo-Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Livestock; Other Agriculture
Project ID                       KOPE69325
Borrower(s)                      UNMIK (RECIPIENT)
Implementing Agency
Address UNMIK THROUGH FAO
Department of Agriculture under
the Joint Interim Administration Structure
(JIAS)
Government Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Contact Person: Mr. M. Farinelli,
Co-Head of the JIAS Department of
Agriculture
Tel: 381-38-500.223, ext567
Fax: 1-212-963-8603
Email:Farinelli@un.org
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 12, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 2000
Projected Board Date             June 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Prior to the conflict in Kosovo between March and June 1999, the rural
population accounted for around 65 percent of the total population in
Kosovo. An estimated 90 percent of this rural population was engaged in
agricultural activities either on a full or part-time basis in the years
preceding the conflict. As a direct consequence of the conflict, some 75
percent of the rural population was subject to mass migration: some 43
percent of the rural population took refuge abroad and a further 32
percent became internally displaced. By September 1999, around 85 percent
of families that had previously left their homes had already returned to
their village of origin. As a result of this disruption (and prior months
of rising and often violent tensions in 1998) agricultural production as
well as related processing industries almost came to a standstill in 1999:
the spring cropping season of 1999 was largely forgone and the 1999 wheat
harvest was a fraction of normal levels (45 percent of 1997 production).
Kosovo currently relies on commercial imports (mainly from Macedonia,
Albania, Montenegro and Greece) and large-scale donor relief aid to meet
its food demands. Farm assets were damaged on a systematic and massive
scale in the course of the conflict. The replacement value of losses of
animals, destroyed farm buildings, and agricultural machinery is
conservatively estimated between US$750 and 800 million. The majority of
livestock (cattle: 50 percent, small ruminants: 65 percent, poultry: 85
percent) which contributed around half of the value of agriculture
production has been lost or killed. Over half of the agriculture
mechanization (tractors: 55 percent, combine harvesters: 75 percent ) are
lost or need repair. Many farm buildings (stables, sheds and storage



space) have been destroyed, as have the dwellings of many rural families.
While fallow land and the loss of cattle can be observed throughout
Kosovo, the loss of agriculture mechanization and farm buildings is more
concentrated in the western municipalities. Results from a farm damage
assessment commissioned by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAO) and the World Bank suggests that the following group
of eight municipalities has been the most severely damaged :
Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac, Decan/Decani, Vushtrri/Vucitm,
Kline/Klina, Peje/Pec, Istog/Istok and Gjakove/Djakovica.As an input to a
medium term reconstruction and recovery program in support of UNMIK, the
Bank in collaboration with FAO, prepared an agriculture and rural sector
note which provides a detailed analysis of the constraints and
opportunities facing the rural economy and the agriculture sector in
Kosovo in the aftermath of the conflict waged in 1999, and suggests a
medium-term (four year) program of policy actions and public investments
to re-launch the rural economy on a path of sustainable and widespread
growth. Based on this note, UNMIK has adopted its own agriculture strategy
based in key components on the recommendations provided by FAO and the
Bank.
2. Objectives
The Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project (EFRP) has the objective of
helping jumpstart agricultural production over the next two to three
cropping seasons and to support re-launching of the rural economy by
investing in key farm assets (cattle and farm mechanization) and key
agricultural services (veterinary services, and policy analysis and
formulation capacity). In doing so the project would support vulnerable
households in targeted villages and municipalities in attaining minimum
levels of agriculture production and food security through replaced farm
assets and improved veterinary services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank adds value to rural development and re-launching the agriculture
sector by having prepared and developed a comprehensive medium term
reconstruction framework which addresses policy as well as public
investment issues, together with a key partner in this field, the FAO. The
Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project prepared jointly by FAO and the
Bank, takes key elements of the mentioned medium-term reconstruction
framework and translates these elements into an operational concept. By
providing a framework, together with the required implementation
arrangements, the Bank anticipates to leverage additional donor
co-financing that otherwise would not have been available. The Bank has
also been instrumental in forging a partnership between UNMIK and FAO
under this operation. In addition, in the course of project implementation
the Bank will provide managerial and technical input during project
implementation in its project supervisory capacity - which has proven to
be an important element of project success in the case of the Emergency
Farm Reconstruction Project in Bosnia.
4. Description
The project comprises the following five components: (a) support to
re-establishing the national cattle herd; (b) rehabilitation of veterinary
services; (c) farm machinery repair and replacement; (d) agriculture
policy capacity building; and (e) project management. Total project costs
are estimated at US$25.0 million, of which financing has been secured to
-2 -



date for US$11.8 million (US$10.0 million from the Bank's Trust Fund for
Kosovo, and US$1.8 million from the Netherlands). The Bank is currently
aiming to mobilize bilateral and multilateral resources to address the
funding gap of US$13.2 million. Project implementation can go ahead in a
meaningful way on the basis of the US$11.8 million currently available
(the Initial Phase), as this funding will allow for the cattle restocking
and new farm mechanization investments in the first three most damaged
municipalities out of a total of eight envisaged municipalities (i.e.
Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac, Decan/Decane); as well as to carry out
tractor and combine repairs in some four other municipalities. The
available funding will also allow to fully finance the rehabilitation of
core veterinary services (both veterinary practices and public animal
health services) throughout Kosovo; and the agriculture policy capacity
building program under UNMIK's Department of Agriculture. Resources
provided from The Netherlands (US$1.8 million) will be allocated to
finance the Capacity Support Component in full (US$0.9 million) and to
finance a major share of the Rehabilitation of Veterinary Services
Component (US$0.9 million out of US$1.3 million). All incremental funding
made available over and above the first US$11.8 million would be invested
in re-establishing the national cattle herd as well as in farm
mechanization repair and replacement in five additional municipalities
(i.e. Vushtrri/Vucitm, Kline/Klina, Peje/Pec, Istog/Istok and
Gjakove/Djakovica). Project preparation activities are being funded
through a grant (US$565,000) out of IDA's Trust Fund for Kosovo.Project
Components (Total Cost - US$25.0 million / Initial Phase - US$11.8
million)
Support to Re-establishing the Cattle Herd (US$11.8 million / US$4.4
million). Under the initial phase and to assist in the restoration of
food security of vulnerable farm families and in the rebuilding of the
cattle herd, the project would finance the purchase of around 2,300 heads
of imported cattle (this compares with a cattle loss of some 200,000
animals). Animals would be distributed to families who have lost all their
cattle during the conflict and have experience in caring for livestock,
within three municipalities with the highest incidence of agriculture
damages (Skenderaj/Srbica, Gllogoc/Glogovac, Decan/Decane). Recipient farm
families would be provided with after-delivery services (veterinary
services, feed concentrate, artificial insemination) to ensure proper care
of animals.
Rehabilitation of Veterinary Services (US$1.3 million / US$1.3 million).
To rapidly restore critical animal health services in Kosovo, the project
would provide basic kits of veterinary equipment to de facto private
veterinarians throughout Kosovo operating out of municipal veterinary
stations. On the side of public veterinary services, the project would
equip a central diagnostic laboratory and rehabilitate some three regional
public animal heath centers. The project would also provide equipment to
support artificial insemination services.
Farm Machinery Repair and Replacement (US$7.9 million / US$3.3 million).
Roughly 50 percent of tractors have been lost or damaged throughout the
province. Under the initial phase, repairs of more lightly damaged
tractors (some estimated 1,600 tractors), and combine harvesters would be
carried out in four municipalities (Prizren/Prizren, Rahovec/Orahovac,
Gjakove/Djakovica; and one further municipalities to be determined). Some
- 3 -



120 new tractors would be provided under the initial phase in the three
municipalities included under the Cattle Component, as would critical farm
implements (ploughs, harrows, etc.) to ensure land cultivation, in
villages where critical tractor deficits persist (taking into account
potential repairs provided).
Capacity Building Support (US$0.9 million / US$0.9 million). To support
UNMIK in analyzing and formulating a broad range of agriculture policy
issues and responses, the project would provide international and national
expertise to work within the UNMIK structures in the newly established
Agricultural Department of the Joint Interim Administration. Capacity
building would include training to Kosovar professionals. It would also
provide UNMIK with limited consultant staff (both international and local)
to cooperate with key minorities. These institution building activities
would also establish key capacities in collecting and maintaining
agriculture statistics and databases. The premises of the new UNMIK
Department of Agriculture which were damaged during the conflict would
also be refurbished.
Project Management Component (US$3.1 million / US$1.9 million).
Implementing the above activities in the current environment in Kosovo to
acceptable technical and fiduciary standards poses considerable management
challenges. To meet these challenges, a Project Management Team (PMT) made
up of a blend of local and international staff will be established and
placed under the umbrella of the FAO Emergency Coordination Unit in
Pristina. The PMT will be supported by technical expertise, and will
implement activities in close collaboration with selected international
and local NGOs.
Project Preparation. A project preparation grant (US$565,000) has recently
been provided by IDA prior to project approval to expedite preparation and
initial start-up of project activities thus ensuring an effective
subsequent implementation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0
IBRD                             0
IDA                              0
GOVERMENT OF
THE NETHERLANDS                  1.8
WB TRUST FUND FOR
KOSOVO                           10.0
OTHER DONORS
(UNIDENTIFIED)                   13.2
Total Project Cost               25.0
6. Implementation
As the recipient of IDA and other donor co-financing under this project,
UNMIK will have overall responsibility for the implementation of this
operation. In the light of UNMIK's limited implementation capacity, the
EFRP will be executed by the FAO through the FAO Emergency Coordination
Unit (FAO/ECU) in Pristina with support from FAO Headquarters. FAO,
supported through the FAO/ECU in Pristina, will implement all project
components in coordination with UNMIK, and be responsible for procurement,
- 4 -



financial management and disbursements. The FAO/ECU was established in
Pristina shortly after the end of the conflict in Kosovo during July 1999,
and has since had an impressive track record in executing FAO relief
operations as well as in coordinating numerous NGOs implementing
agriculture relief activities during the Summer and Fall of 1999. FAO is
establishing a Project Management Team (PMT) during the on-going
preparation and initial start-up phase. The PMT will carry out
implementation and project management under the responsibility of the FAO
Emergency Coordinator in Pristina (who is the Head of the Kosovo-based
FAO/ECU) and relevant technical departments at FAO Headquarters. The PMT
will be managed by an international team leader and a Kosovar deputy team
leader, and provide for procurement and financial management expertise, as
well as support staff. To carry out technical implementation, FAO will
recruit international and local expertise in the following areas: (i)
veterinary and livestock expertise, (ii) farm mechanization, (iii)
monitoring and evaluation, and (iv) rural sociology. Beyond the
partnership with FAO, a number of NGOs will be involved in carrying out a
beneficiary selection process and in implementing the cattle restocking
and the farm mechanization components at the municipality and village
level. NGOs have played a key role in recent agriculture relief efforts
in designated geographical areas of responsibility (jointly agreed upon by
the NGOs and the FAO/ECU) to ensure a coordinated approach in providing
relief services. To build on the expertise gained on the ground by NGOs
over the past months, FAO will contract services with a number of
international and local NGOs.
7. Sustainability
Technical sustainability of delivered assets will be achieved through a
careful selection of the types of animals and tractors which are suitable
to local conditions and requirements of farmers: (i) cattle breeds
combining adequate milk production and rusticity are known and appreciated
by local farmers; and (ii) one standard type of tractors and three types
of implements which correspond to those mostly used and appreciated by
farmers. In addition, the related services (veterinary services,
artificial insemination, quarantine, diagnosis laboratory, repair services
for machinery, private dealers of spare parts) will be supported by the
project to ensure continued service of imported assets. The types of
assets being distributed by the project and associated follow-up
activities suggest eminent sustainability. The project is making
considerable provisions to provide after-delivery services to recipients
in terms of veterinary and nutritional follow-up for cattle, and
monitoring of tractor use and sharing. The community involvement in the
distribution and use of the tractor should also ensure that it continues
to be used as a community asset beyond the project cycle. Re-establishing
veterinary services will also contribute to safeguarding the existing
animal stock in the province and is likely to become an institutionally
sustainable service.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Many lessons of the successful Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project in
Bosnia (1997 - 1998) are reflected in this operation. Similar activities
(livestock, farm mechanization, veterinary support activities) were also
undertaken under the agriculture component of the Emergency Reconstruction
Project in Croatia (1995 - 1997). A first lesson is that simplicity of
design is an important element in successful implementation of an
- 5 -



emergency reconstruction project. Second, if full cost recovery is not
feasible partial grant-based support explained up-front to recipients is
preferable to the moral hazard created by unenforceable credit
arrangements. Third, technical lessons have been learned from the Bosnia
experience: imported sheep and, in particular, goats experienced serious
adaptation problems and are therefore excluded from the operation in
Kosovo. Similarly, smaller motorcultivators and associated attachments
distributed under the project in Bosnia proved to be in low demand; in
addition an agriculture damage and needs assessment survey confirmed
little interest in motorcultivators; as a consequence, this type of
equipment will also not be provided under the EFRP in Kosovo. Fourth,
compliance with beneficiary selection criteria established under the
mentioned project in Bosnia was poor as the selection process was carried
out by the regional public administration which tended to allocate on the
basis of political rather than technical/social criteria. In the case of
the operation in Kosovo, a transparent and systematic consultation process
with community level participation and checks and balances will help
contribute to minimizing errors of inclusion or exclusion. Beyond the
immediate implementation lessons associated with the Emergency Farm
Reconstruction Project in Bosnia, an overall retrospective of the Bosnia
post-conflict experience indicates that key for re-launching economic
activities consists of addressing developmental and institutional issues
up front, beyond striving for mere and immediate physical reconstruction
targets. The Kosovo EFRP aims at doing so by including private sector (in
particular veterinary services) and capacity building elements (UNMIK
Department of Agriculture) into the design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  No major environmental issues are foreseen for the
project. The limited scope, relative to conflict damages, of new cattle,
new farm mechanization and veterinary equipment provided does not raise
environmental concerns. Animals will only be given to farmers with
experience of rearing livestock and who lost all their cattle in the
conflict. The number of cattle being provided and the geographically
wide-spread distribution across many communities will not put pressure on
pasture and grazing resources. The farm mechanization replacement and
repair scheme does not entail environmental issues. The imported tractors
will be as close as possible to existing mechanization levels. No
environmental issues are envisaged under the capacity building component.
Minor civil works associated with the refurbishing of three veterinary
stations and of the premises of the UNMIK Department of Agriculture will
be carried out under conditions such that they are acceptable to
neighboring communities and with materials not presenting any currently
foreseeable harm to health and the environment.
11. Contact Point:
Team Leader
Severin L. Kodderitzsch
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1-202-458.2164
-6-



Fax: 1-202-614.06.98
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Key Agencies and Contact Persons Mr. M. Farinelli, Co-head of the UNMIK
Joint Interim Administration Structure (JIAS) Department of
AgricultureGovernment Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Telephone No.: (381) 38500 223, ext 5671
Fax No.:      1 212 963 8603
email: Farinelli@un.org
Mr.D. Donati Head of the Emergency Coordination Unit Pristina World Food
Programme Building, Pristina, Kosovo
Telephone No.: (871) 761 943269
email: Fao.Kosovo@wfp.org
Mr. L Thomas, Senior Operations Officer
Special Relief Operations Service, Technical Cooperation Department, Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Viale delle Terme di
Caracalla, 00100 Rome, Italy
Telephone No.: (39) 06 557 55042
Fax No.:(39) 06 570 53152
email: Laurentjaques.Thomas@FAO.org
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 16, 2000.
- 7 -



