Page  1
December 22, 2000
Mr. Bernard Kouchner
Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
Re:
Swedish Grant for Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Grant TF 024902                                                                       
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate the IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Sweden, to 
make a grant in an amount equivalent to ten million Swedish kronor (SEK10,000,000) 
(not to exceed one million United States dollars ($1,000,000)) (the Grant) to the 
United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature and the 
effectiveness of an amendment to the service agreement between the Recipient and the 
Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), dated August 14, 2000, governing 
the implementation management of the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project by FAO on 
behalf of UNMIK (the Amendment to the Service Agreement).
We would appreciate if in your future correspondence with the IDA, you referred 
to TF024902.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director and Regional Coordinator 
   for Southeast Europe
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By /s/ Hans Haekkerup
Authorized Representative
Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Date:
2/12/2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in implementation of repair 
of damaged farm machinery under Part B of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement between IDA and the Recipient, dated August 14, 2000.  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
(a)
damage assessment of damaged farm machinery in three municipalities; 
(b)
supply of spare parts and repair services commensurate with the results 
of the farm machinery assessment carried out under (a); and 
(c)
post-repair verification and monitoring usage of repaired farm machinery.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities, through the Food and 
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish, or cause the FAO to furnish, all information 
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views, or cause the FAO to exchange 
views, with the IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; 
and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the IDA to visit the territory 
of Kosovo for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the 
Recipient shall, if the IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to the IDA promptly 
upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient shall amend a service agreement with the FAO, dated August 14, 
2000, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, pursuant to which the FAO shall 
undertake to implement the Activities and the Recipient shall make available to the 
FAO the proceeds of the Grant.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this 
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
   % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in U.S. dollars)
  be Financed
(1)
Technical Services
   920,000
100%
(2)
Incremental Operating
    80,000
100%
Costs
TOTAL
 1,000,000
4.3.
For the purposes of this Schedule: the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
Page  3
reasonable incremental expenses incurred by FAO on behalf of the Recipient under the 
Service Agreement in connection with Project management and implementation, including 
the cost of: (i) FAO consultants’ services related to the project management; (ii) 
office and vehicles operating costs; (iii) communications; (iv) dissemination of 
information; (v) FAO headquarters staff support costs; (vi) auditing services; and 
(vii) other ordinary, reasonable and necessary activities directly related to Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, and possible termination
4.4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
IDA; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the IDA or for goods produced in or works or services supplied from 
such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2001 
or such later date that the IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date). However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after 
which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall 
be canceled; and
(c)
If, in the IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.5.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by the IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of 
the Recipient by the Chief of Project Accounting Group, Finance Division, FAO , or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as the IDA shall reasonably request. 
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The IDA shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient.
4.6.
The IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for all incremental 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
4.7.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO maintains a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently applied, 
Page  4
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO: (i) has the records, accounts 
and financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA; (ii) furnishes to the IDA as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) 
furnishes to the IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has suspended 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance with Article V or Section 1.15 of Schedule 
IV of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
6.2.
The IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has terminated 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance with Section 1.16 of Schedule IV of the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
7.
Settlement of Disputes
7.1
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Letter of Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Page  5
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Direct Contracting
Technical services which are urgently needed to respond to emergency situations 
will be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Part B and paragraph C (1) of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
