Page  1
June
23,
2000
Mr. Bernard Kouchner
Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
Re:
Dutch Grant for Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Grant TF
023822
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate the IDA
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the
Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount equivalent to four million five hundred
thousand Netherlands Guilders
(NLG4,500,000) (not to exceed one million eight hundred 
thousand United States dollars
($1,800,000)) (the Grant) to the United Nations Interim 
Administration in Kosovo
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature and the
effectiveness of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement between IDA and the Recipient in
support of the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
(the Trust Fund Grant Agreement).
We would appreciate if in your future correspondence with the IDA, you referred
to TF
023822.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director for Bosnia and Herzegovina
Regional Coordinator for South-East Europe
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By
/s/
Bernard Kouchner
Authorized Representative
Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Date:
July 25, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in implementation of Parts 
B and D of the Project, described in Schedule
2
to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
The activities
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
Page  2
(a)
provision of veterinary equipment and drugs to private veterinarians in 
Kosovo, through the equipping of one central diagnostic laboratory and three regional
public animal health centers, through the financing of goods; and
(b)
institutional strengthening and refurbishing of the Recipient
’s
Department of Agriculture through the financing of works and services.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities, through the Food and 
Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
(FAO), with due diligence and
efficiency;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for that purpose;
(c) furnish, or cause the FAO to furnish, all information 
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the IDA shall
reasonably request;
(d) from time to time exchange views, or cause the FAO to exchange 
views, with the IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; 
and
(e)
take all necessary measures required to enable the IDA to visit the territory
of Kosovo for purposes related to the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the
Recipient shall, if the IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to the IDA promptly
upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the
IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient shall enter into a service agreement with the FAO, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to IDA, pursuant to which the FAO shall undertake to implement
the Activities and the Recipient shall make available to the FAO the proceeds of the
Grant.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or
repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in US dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Consultants' services,
750,000
100%
including training
(2) Goods
900,000
100%
(3) Works
150,000
100%
Page  3
TOTAL
1,800,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the
IDA;
(ii)
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the
Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the IDA or for goods produced in or works or services supplied from
such territories; or
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the IDA
’s knowledge, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 
2001
or such later date that the IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient
(the
Closing Date).
However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal
application is received by the IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after
which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall
be canceled; and
(c)
If, in the IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph
4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient,
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which,
in the IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by the IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of 
the Recipient by the Chief of Project Accounting Group, Finance Division, FAO , or
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and
(b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as the IDA shall reasonably request. 
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her
signature.
Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the IDA that the
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.
The IDA shall pay the
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of
the Recipient.
4.5.
The IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of 
consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of 
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (c) goods costing less 
than $200,000; and (d) all works, all under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
The IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by the IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO maintains a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently applied,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO: (i) has the records, accounts 
Page  4
and financial statements referred to in subparagraph
(
a
)
above for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA;
(ii) furnishes to the IDA as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) 
furnishes to the IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the IDA shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a)
above, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the IDA
’s
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has suspended
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance with Article V or Section
1.15 of Schedule 
IV of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
6.2.
The IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has terminated
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance with Section
1.16 of Schedule IV of the 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
7.
Settlement of Disputes
7.1
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Letter of Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with
(a)
the provisions of
Section I of the
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996, 
September
1997
and January
1999
(the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Page  5
the Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto
.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of
suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with provisions of
paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than
$200,000
equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost
$150,000
equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price or unit rates contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Part B and paragraph C
(1) of this Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants
’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
“Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 
and revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
Page  6
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule
.
Part B:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provide in Part C of this Section, consultants
’
services
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Agricultural advisory services and other tasks that meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph
5.1
of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 
through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
