Page  1
December 19, 2001
Mr. Hans Haekkerup
Special Representative 
of the Secretary General of the United Nations
United Nation Interim Administration in Kosovo
Re:  Italian Grant for Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project
Grant Number TF 029775
Dear Mr. Haekkerup:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Italy, to make a grant in an amount equivalent 
to one million five hundred forty nine three hundred seventy Euro (
€
1,549,370) not exceeding one 
million four hundred thousand United States dollars (US$1,400,000) (the Grant) to the United Nations 
Interim Administration in Kosovo (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
following its countersignature and the effectiveness of the amendment to the service agreement 
between the Recipient and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN (FAO), dated August 14, 
2000, governing the implementation management of the Emergency Farm Reconstruction Project by 
FAO on behalf of UNMIK (the third Amendment to the Service Agreement) referred to in Section 2.3 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement.
If this Letter Agreement shall not have entered into effect by January 31, 2002, this Letter 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate unless IDA, after consideration 
of the reasons for the delay, shall establish a later date for these purposes. IDA shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date.
We would appreciate if in your future correspondence with IDA, you referred to TF029775. 
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Giuseppe Zampaglione
Resident Representative of the World Bank in Kosovo 
Page  2
AGREED:
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By: 
Name: Charles Brayshaw
Acting Special Representative to the Secretary General
Date:  December 21, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of Parts A, C and E 
of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement between IDA and the 
Recipient, dated July 25, 2000.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
purchasing of cattle for distribution on a grant basis to families in the Peje municipality 
in Kosovo in accordance with eligibility criteria satisfactory to IDA; and provision of after-delivery 
care for such cattle; 
(b)
distribution of new machinery on a grant basis to the beneficiaries in the Peje municipality in 
Kosovo in accordance with eligibility criteria satisfactory to IDA; and
(c)
assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, monitoring and compliance 
verification through the financing of incremental operating costs, including external auditing services.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities, through the Food and Agricultural 
Organization of the United Nations (FAO), with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish, or cause the 
FAO to furnish, all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the 
IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views, or cause the FAO to exchange 
views, with the IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the IDA to visit the territory of Kosovo for purposes related to 
the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the IDA shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to the IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
The Recipient shall amend a service agreement with the FAO, dated August 14, 2000, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, pursuant to which the FAO shall undertake to implement the 
Page  3
Activities and the Recipient shall make available to the FAO the proceeds of the Grant. 
2.3
The Recipient shall ensure that the amendment to the Service Agreement referred in Section 
2.2 of this Annex is signed not later than January 31, 2002.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and services required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant 
% of  Expenditures
Item
Allocated (in U.S. dollars)
to be Financed
 (1) Consultants’ services,      
  170,000
100%
including training                    
(2) Goods
1,030,000
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating  
      Costs
  200,000
100%
TOTAL
1,400,000
For the purposes of this paragraph: the term ‘Incremental Operating Costs’ means reasonable 
incremental expenses incurred by FAO on behalf of the Recipient under the Service Agreement in 
connection with the Project management and implementation, including the cost of: (i) FAO 
consultants’ services related to the Project management; (ii) office and vehicles operating costs; (iii) 
communications; (iv) dissemination of information; (v) FAO headquarters staff support costs; (vi) 
Page  4
auditing services; and (vii) other ordinary reasonable and necessary activities directly related to 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, and possible termination.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the IDA or for goods produced in or works 
or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 31, 2002 or such 
later date that the IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if 
the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall 
be canceled; and
(c)
If, in the IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table 
in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the IDA may, by 
written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in the IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
IDA. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Chief of Project 
Accounting Group, Finance Division, FAO, or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in 
writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the IDA shall 
reasonably request. Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal 
application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant 
Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The IDA shall pay 
the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the 
Recipient.
4.5.
The IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing 
less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) goods costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (d) training; and 
(e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
Page  5
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the IDA.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO maintains a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently applied, adequate to reflect the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall ensure that the FAO: (i) has the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the IDA, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the IDA; (ii) furnishes to the IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the IDA shall 
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the IDA such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the IDA shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has suspended the right of the Recipient 
to make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance 
with Article V or Section 1.15 of Schedule IV of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
6.2.
The IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if the IDA has terminated the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals with respect to the grant under the Trust Fund Grant Agreement, in accordance 
with Section 1.16 of Schedule IV of the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
6.
Settlement of Disputes
7.1
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Letter of Agreement which is not settled by 
agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Page  6
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:  General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:  International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 
of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, which IDA agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Technical services and tractors which are urgently needed to respond to emergency situations 
will be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  7
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts for Part B and Part C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:  General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Administrator in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B
:  Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Agricultural advisory services and other tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
Selection Planning
Page  8
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply
.
