Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H596-ZR 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Emergency Urban and Social Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 2, 2011 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER 596-ZR 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 2, 2011, entered into between DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to Parts A, E and F of the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 26,500,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing Parts A, E and F of the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through UCOP in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
The agreement to be entered into between the Recipient and the 
Financial Intermediary, the Paying Bank, the Auditor for School Expenditures, 
and the Internal Debt Tranches Auditor, respectively shall have been breached, 
amended or waived, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, affects 
the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE V —TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative is its minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 Minister 
of 
Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Boulevard du 30 Juin 
 BP 
12997 
 
Kinshasa – Gombe 
 
Democratic Republic of Congo 
 Facsimile: 
 
243 880 23 81 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By 
//s// Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
//s// Matata Ponyo Mapon 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to respond to urgent challenges by: (i) supporting 
domestic debt settlement; and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in 
targeted areas. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A.
Financing of Selected Recurrent Expenditure in the Education Sector
Support the Recipient in the financing of School Operating Expenditures for 
Selected Schools, including related services. 
Part B.
Internal Debt Settlement
Support the Recipient in completing the settlement of its Internal Debt, through 
payment of Internal Debt Tranches including related services and audits. 
Part C.
Urban Roads Rehabilitation
Support the Recipient in the rehabilitation of Selected Roads, including technical 
and environmental studies, institutional support, construction works and supervision. 
Part D.
Access to Water
Support the Recipient in improving access to water in peri-urban areas of 
Kinshasa, through the expansion of distribution network from the water treatment plant 
of Lukaya, including technical and environmental studies, institutional support, 
construction works and supervision; and information, communication, and training. 
Part E.
Malaria Reduction and Prevention
Support the Recipient in the fight against malaria in Kinshasa and Bandundu 
province, through the acquisition and distribution (for free) of long lasting insecticidal 
bed nets to households in Kinshasa and Bandundu province and related supervision and 
communication activities. 
Page  7
6
Part F.
Project Implementation and Coordination
Support the Recipient in Project implementation, Project coordination, 
procurement and financial management, as well as the implementation of social and 
environmental mitigation measures through the provision of technical advisory services 
for the carrying out of technical audits and financial audits and monitoring, including 
environmental and social, and evaluation activities under the Project, as well as through 
operating and communication costs. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Manuals; 
and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the Project 
Manuals, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
maintain ISC in form and with functions satisfactory to the Association, 
responsible for overall supervision and strategic orientation of the Project; and 
(b) 
maintain UCOP in form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association and with staff in adequate number and with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association, responsible for annual planning and 
programming, day to day coordination and implementation of Project activities, 
disbursement, financial management, contract management, monitoring and 
evaluation, and reporting to the ISC and the Association, all in compliance with 
the Project Manuals. 
3. 
For the purpose of Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall: (a)  enter into and 
maintain throughout the life of the Project an agreement with the Auditor for 
School Expenditures; and (b) cause UCOP to enter into and maintain throughout 
the life of the Project: (i) an agreement with the Financial Intermediary, 
providing for the transfer by the Financial Intermediary to Selected Schools of 
funds made available to the Recipient under each School Operating Expenditures 
Installment; and (ii) an agreement with the Education Communication Entity, all 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
4. 
For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the Recipient shall cause UCOP to enter 
into and maintain throughout the life of the Project: (a) an agreement with the 
Paying Bank, and (b) an agreement with the Internal Debt Tranches Auditor, all 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  9
8
5. 
For the purpose of Parts C, D, and E of the Project, the Recipient shall cause 
UCOP to enter into and maintain throughout the life of the Project, unless 
otherwise agreed with the Association, an agreement with the Procurement 
Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and ensure proper 
collaboration from all concerned parties so as to allow the due performance of its 
mission by the Procurement Agent. 
6. 
The Recipient shall cause UCOP to collaborate as needed with other relevant 
public or private agencies or entities involved in the implementation of the 
Project, including: 
(a) 
as regards Part A of the Project, with MEPSP through SECOPE for the 
overall supervision of transfer of funds to and resulting activities within Selected 
Schools, as well as communication activities, on the basis of an agreement 
satisfactory to the Association between UCOP and MEPSP through SECOPE and 
maintained throughout the life of the Project unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association; 
(b) 
as regards Part B of the Project, with CDPI and MINFIN for the overall 
supervision of Internal Debt clearance activities; 
(c) 
as regards Part C of the Project, with MINITPR to ensure adequate 
coordination with the Recipient’s infrastructure programs and with OVD to assist 
in the supervision of works carried out under the Project, on the basis of an 
agreement satisfactory to the Association to be entered into between UCOP and 
OVD and maintained throughout the life of the Project unless otherwise agreed 
with the Association; 
(d) 
as regards Part D of the Project, with REGIDESO to ensure adequate 
coordination with the Recipient’s water sector programs and to assist in the 
supervision and management of works, on the basis of an agreement satisfactory 
to the Association to be entered into between UCOP and the REGIDESO and 
maintained throughout the life of the Project unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association; 
(e) 
as regards Part E of the Project, with PHI to ensure adequate 
coordination with the Recipient’s health programs in Kinshasa and Bandundu 
province and to assist in the supervision and management of the activities on the 
basis of an agreement satisfactory to the Association entered into between UCOP 
and the PHI and maintained throughout the life of the Project unless otherwise 
agreed with the Association. 
Page  10
9
B. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines and the Anti-Corruption Plan to be 
updated under terms satisfactory to the Association by not later than three (3) 
months after the Date of Effectiveness. 
C
Safeguards
 
1. 
No later than six months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient shall 
adopt an ESMF and a RPF in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
The Recipient shall, thereafter, ensure that the Project is implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the ESMF and the RPF, including the 
preparation, disclosure and implementation of an ESIA, EMP or RAP, if 
necessary, satisfactory to the Association before the start of the works to be 
carried out under Part C and D of the Project and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision of the ESMF and the 
RPF, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
For the purpose of Parts C and D of the Project, the Recipient shall cause UCOP 
to enter into and maintain throughout the life of the Project an agreement with the 
Safeguard Management Firm. 
D. Manual 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM), to be 
updated under terms satisfactory to the Association by not later than three (3) 
months after the Effectiveness Date, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate, waive, or permit to be amended, 
abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision of either one thereof, 
without the prior written agreement of the Association. 
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the PIM and those of this 
Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Page  11
10 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
4. 
The Recipient shall have an audit of the delivery of funds for each School 
Operating Expenditures Installment carried out according to terms and reference 
satisfactory to the Association as set forth in the Project Manuals, by auditors 
acceptable to the Association, no later than five (5) months after each release of 
funds under Part A of the Project. 
5. 
The Recipient shall have an audit of the payment of each Internal Debt Tranche 
made under Part B of the Project carried out according to terms and reference 
satisfactory to the Association as set forth in the Project Manuals, by auditors 
acceptable to the Association, no later than 45 days after the payment of each 
such Internal Debt Tranche. 
Page  12
11 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Services other than consultant services.
 
All goods and services 
other than consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and services other than 
consultant services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods, works and services other than consultant services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and services other than consultant 
services. 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods. The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
Procurement Methods
 
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping Procedures  
(c) Limited International Bidding  
(d) Direct contracting  
Page  13
12 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods
 
(a) Consultants’ qualifications  
(b) Least Cost Selection  
(c) Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d) Single Source Selection  
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Associations’ Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this 
Section, and such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for 
Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as 
made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance 
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  14
13 
 
Category 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) School Operating 
Expenditures Installments 
including related services, 
under Part A of the Project 
12,900,000 
 
100 % of amounts 
disbursed 
 
(2) Goods, consultant 
services and non-consultant 
services for  Part E of the 
Project 
12,900,000 100% 
(3) Operating Costs 
700,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
26,500,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for the first semestral School Operating Expenditures Installment of 
SDR 6,450,000 equivalent under Category (1) above, unless the Recipient has 
provided to the Association an updated list of Selected Schools and related 
payment criteria under terms satisfactory to the Association and an audit 
satisfactory to the Association by the Auditor for School Expenditures on the 
payment of the previous School Operating Expenditures Installment made in the 
framework of the Original Financing Agreement, and for each semestral School 
Operating Expenditures Installment of SDR 6,450,000 under Category (1) above, 
unless the Recipient has provided to the Association an audit satisfactory to the 
Association by the Auditor for School Expenditures on the payment of the 
previous School Operating Expenditures Installment. 
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain the Auditor for School Expenditures employed throughout the 
implementation of the Project; 
Page  15
14 
 
B. 
No later than six months from the Date of Effectiveness, the Recipient will have 
caused UCOP to: 
(a) 
extend the employment of the external auditors referred to in 
Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
extend the employment of the internal auditors for the Project, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section VI. 
Amendment to the Original Financing Agreement
The following provisions of the Original Financing Agreement are hereby modified to 
read as follows: 
1. 
The Preamble in Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
“The objective of the Project is to respond to urgent challenges by: (i) supporting 
domestic debt settlement; and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in 
targeted areas.” 
2. 
Part E of the Project in Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
 “Part 
E
.
Malaria Reduction and Prevention
Support the Recipient in the fight against malaria in Kinshasa and Bandundu 
provinces, through the acquisition and distribution (for free) of long lasting 
insecticidal bed nets to households in Kinshasa and the Bandundu province and 
related supervision and communication activities.” 
3. 
Section II. A of Schedule 2 of the Original Financing Agreement is modified to 
read as follows: 
 “
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
Association. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, 
and shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.” 
 
4. 
The Closing Date in Section IV.B.2 is extended to May 31, 2012.
 
Page  16
15 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006, with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Plan” means “Anti-Corruption Plan” means the Recipient’s 
anti-corruption action plan adopted by the Recipient on February 10, 2010 which 
sets forth the measures and actions to be taken during implementation of the 
Project with respect to disclosure, civil society oversight, collusion mitigation, 
mitigation of forgery and fraud, complaints handling and sanctions and remedies. 
3. 
“Auditor for School Expenditures” means the auditing firm acceptable to the 
Association recruited for the purpose of carrying out audits of payments made by 
the Financial Intermediary, as provided for in Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. “CDPI” 
means 
Commission de la Dette Publique Interne
,
an entity established 
and operating pursuant to decree No. 04/016 dated January 26, 2004 “
portant 
création et organisation de la Commission de la Dette Publique Intérieure
". 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
7. 
“Creditor Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the Recipient 
and each eligible creditor as part of the clearing of the Internal Debt, and initially 
providing for the payment by the Recipient to each eligible creditor of three 
installments, one in 2005, one in 2006 and one in 2007, respectively. 
8. 
“Education Communication Entity” means the organization acceptable to the 
Association recruited by the Recipient to carry out communication activities 
under Part A of the Project. 
9. 
“EMP” means environmental management plan, the plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, to be adopted as the case may be by the Recipient, 
describing measures for the mitigation, reduction and or offset of the 
environmental and social impacts of activities identified under the Project, 
pursuant to the ESMF and ESIA (as hereinafter defined). 
Page  17
16 
 
10. 
“ESIA” means environmental and social impact assessment, the evaluation of the 
potential environmental and social risks and impacts of activities under the 
Project, prepared by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to include an EMP, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Association. 
11. 
“ESMF” means Environmental and Social Management Framework, the 
document adopted by the Recipient on August 21, 2008 referred to Section I. C 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, consisting of a framework outlining the 
modalities for social and environmental screening of Project activities and rules 
and procedures for the preparation and implementation of ESIA to be complied 
with, as the case may be, prior to carrying out such activity. 
12. 
“Financial Intermediary” means the firm acceptable to the Association selected 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to facilitate the 
payment to Selected Schools of the Schools Operating Expenditures Installment. 
13. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
14. 
“Internal Debt” means the stock of domestic debt owed by the Recipient to 
private domestic creditors, as determined pursuant to procedures satisfactory to 
the Association, and confirmed through an independent audit in January 2004. 
15. 
“Internal Debt First Tranche” means the amount referred to in Category (2) (a) of 
the table set forth in Section IV. A of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing 
Agreement, to be released to the Recipient under Part B the Project for the 
purpose of payment by the Recipient to Internal Debt creditors of the second 
installment due pursuant to Creditor Agreements, subject to conditions set forth 
in this Agreement. 
16. 
“Internal Debt Initial Tranche” means a total amount of $ 42,500,000, used for 
the payment in 2005 by the Recipient to Internal Debt creditors of the first 
installment due pursuant to Creditor Agreements. 
17. 
“Internal Debt Second Tranche” means the amount referred to in Category (2) (b) 
of the table set forth in Section IV. A of Schedule 2 to the Original Financing 
Agreement, to be released to the Recipient under Part B the Project for the 
purpose of payment by the Recipient to Internal Debt creditors of the third 
installment due pursuant to Creditor Agreements, subject to conditions set forth 
in this Agreement. 
Page  18
17 
 
18. 
“Internal Debt Tranches” means collectively the Internal Debt First Tranche and 
the Internal Debt Second Tranche. 
19. 
“Internal Debt Tranches Auditor” means the auditing firm acceptable to the    
Association to be recruited for the purpose of carrying out audits of payments 
made by the Paying Bank, as provided for in Schedule 2 of this Agreement. 
20. 
“ISC” means the interministerial steering committee for the Project (
Comité 
Interministériel de Supervision
)
established and operating pursuant to Decree 
No. 
03/023 dated September 10, 2003 “
portant création, organisation et 
fonctionnement du Comité Interministériel de Supervision du Projet d’Urgence 
de Soutien au Processus de Réunification Economique et Sociale en RDC
”. 
21. “MEPSP” 
means 
Ministère de l’Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et 
Professionnel
,
the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of primary, secondary and 
professional education. 
22. 
“MINFIN” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
23. 
“MINITPR” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Infrastructures, Public Works and 
Reconstruction. 
24. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient on 
account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, for office 
space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle 
operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment maintenance, 
advertising expenses, travel and supervision, salaries of contractual and 
temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of members 
of the Recipient’s civil service 
25. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for an 
Emergency Urban and Social Rehabilitation Project between the Recipient and 
the Association, dated April 11, 2007 (Grant No H282-DRC). 
26. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
27. “OVD” 
means 
Office des Voiries et Drainage
,
the Recipient’s entity in charge of 
the maintenance and planning for urban roads and sewage infrastructure 
established and operating pursuant to Ordinance No. 87-331 dated 
September 16, 1987 “
portant création et statuts d’une entreprise publique
”. 
Page  19
18 
 
28. 
“PAFAM” means the Project implementation manual, outlining the 
administrative, financial and accounting, and procurement arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, adopted by the Recipient on July 2, 2007 and 
revised in April 2010  as the same may be amended by agreement of the Parties 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PAFAM. 
29. 
“Paying Bank” means the commercial Bank acceptable to the Association 
selected under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association selected to 
facilitate the payment to Internal Debt creditors of the Internal Debt Tranches. 
30. 
“PHI” means provincial health inspectorate (
Inspection Provinciale de la Santé
)
authorities in Kinshasa, as established pursuant to “
Arrêté 
n° 
CAB/MIN/FP/JMK/PPJ/044/2003 du 28 mars 2003 portant agrément 
provisoire du cadre organique du Ministère de la Santé Révisé
”. 
31. 
“PIM” means the Project implementation manual outlining operational 
modalities for the implementation of Project activities including, 
inter alia
,
the 
PAFAM and institutional, disbursement, procurement and environmental 
mitigation arrangements for the implementation of the Project adopted by the 
Recipient on July 2, 2007 as the same may be amended by agreement of the 
Parties from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM. 
32. 
“Procurement Agent” means the entity to be recruited in accordance with 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement to carry out procurement activities 
under Part C through E of the Project. 
33. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 and May 2010. 
34. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 6, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
35. 
“Project Manuals” means, collectively, the PIM and the PAFAM. 
36. 
“RAP” means resettlement action plan, the document to be prepared by the 
Recipient, as the case may be, pursuant to the RPF. 
37. “REGIDESO” 
means 
Régie des Distributions d’Eau de la République 
Démocratique du Congo, 
the Recipient’s public water distribution company 
established and operating pursuant to 
Ordonnance-loi 
No. 66-460, dated 
August 25, 1966, as amended by 
Ordinance 
No. 78-197, dated May 5, 1978. 
Page  20
19 
 
38. 
“RPF “means resettlement policy framework for land acquisition, compensation, 
resettlement and rehabilitation under the Project adopted by the Recipient on, 
August 21, 2008 referred to in Section I. C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as 
said framework may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of 
the Association. 
39. 
“Safeguard Management Firm” means the firm acceptable to the Association to 
be recruited by the Recipient to carry out environmental and social mitigation 
measures under Parts C and D of the Project. 
40. 
“School Operating Expenditures” means for Selected Schools “
frais de 
fonctionnement
”
as defined by 
Arrêté Interministériel n° 0009bis/2008 dated 
February 1, 2008
,
as well as 
“
frais d’interventions ponctuelles
”
as defined 
pursuant to “
lettres circulaires
”
of
the MEPSP. 
41. 
“School Operating Expenditures Installment” means each semestrial installment 
to be disbursed by the Association to the Recipient under Part A of the Project 
and to be transferred by the Financial Intermediary to Selected Schools, under 
conditions set forth in this Agreement. 
42. “SECOPE” 
means 
Service de Contrôle et de la Paie des Enseignants
,
the unit 
within MEPSP in charge of 
the management of teachers’ salaries payment; 
43. 
“Selected Roads” means the list of road segments in Kinshasa to be rehabilitated 
under Part C of the Project to be agreed upon between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
44. 
“Selected Schools” means the list of secondary (including professional and 
technical) schools formally registered and budgeted in the territory of the 
Recipient eligible for financing under Part A of the Project, presented by the 
Recipient and found satisfactory by the Association. 
45. “UCOP” 
means 
Unit
é
de
Coordination du Projet
,
established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 03/023 dated September 10, 2003 
“
portant création, organisation et fonctionnement du Comité Interministériel de 
Supervision du Projet d’Urgence de Soutien au Processus de Réunification 
Economique et Sociale en RDC
”. 
Page  21
20 
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of
 
the 
Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay 
the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such 
withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall cancel 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
(l)  
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Page  22
21 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical 
order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) The 
term 
“Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
Section III.   
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be 
imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all 
other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that 
the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual 
or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an 
individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, 
individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of 
time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and 
(iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or 
any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the 
Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Page  23
22 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise
 
