                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00002732


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-H2820 IDA-H5960)

                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 120 MILLION
                       (US$180 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND AN

                          ADDITIONAL GRANT
                   FROM THE CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.5 MILLION
                        (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                    FOR AN

       EMERGENCY URBAN AND SOCIAL REHABILITATION PROJECT



                               November 27, 2013




Sector Department AFTU2 (Water and Urban Services)
Country Department AFCC2
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2013)
                             Currency Unit = US$
                            CDF 1.00 = US$0.001088
                            US$ 1.00 = 919.01 CDF
                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
BP       Bank Procedure
CAF      Country Assistance Framework
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF      Congolese Franc
CDPI     Cellule de la Dette Publique Intérieure (Public Domestic Debt Unit)
DRC      Democratic Republic of Congo
EESRSP   Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Support Project
ELCISP   Emergency Living Conditions Improvement Support Project
EMRRP    Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
ESP      Ecole de Santé Publique (School of Public Health)
EUSRP    Emergency Urban and Social Reunification Project
FONER    Fonds National d’Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Fund)
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA      International Development Association
IPS      Institut Provincial de Santé (Provincial Health Institute)
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
ITN      Insecticide-treated bed nets
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
N/A      not applicable
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
OP       Operational Policy
OVD      Office de Voirie et Drainage (Urban Roads Agency)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PNLP     Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme (National Program to Fight Malaria)
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SECOPE   Service de Contrôle de la Paie des Enseignants (Department for Monitoring the Payment of
         Teacher Salaries)
SOE      State-Owned Enterprises
UCoP     Unité de Coordination de Projets (Project Coordination Unit)
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
UNOPS    United Nations Office for Project Services
UWSP     Urban Water Supply Project
WHO      World Health Organization

                                          ii
      Vice President: Makhtar Diop
    Country Director: Eustache Ouayoro
     Sector Manager: Alexander Bakalian
Project Team Leader: Mahine Diop
   ICR Team Leader: Mahine Diop
         ICR Author: Christian Vang Eghoff




                   iii
                            DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO
                         Water, Electricity and Urban Development Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 26
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 49
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 50
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 57
   MAP IBRD 333921R2




                                                               iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                             DRC Emergency Urban
                        Congo, Democratic
Country:                                           Project Name:             and Social
                        Republic of
                                                                             Rehabilitation Project
                                                                             IDA-H2820,IDA-
Project ID:             P104497                    L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                             H5960
ICR Date:               11/26/2013                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                        Borrower:
                                                                             DRC
Original Total
                        XDR 120.00M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 131.58M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 146.50M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Unité Coordination des Projet (UCoP)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process             Date                Process              Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/06/2006        Effectiveness:             07/06/2007        07/06/2007
                                                                                     02/02/2011
Appraisal:            01/22/2007        Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     04/25/2012
Approval:             03/29/2007        Mid-term Review:           07/06/2009        12/05/2009
                                        Closing:                   05/31/2011        05/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Substantial
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                   v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     32                  28
General education sector                                              25                  20
Health                                                                 7                  15
Urban Transport                                                       22                  24
Water supply                                                          14                  13


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                         13                  10
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             25                  25
Education for all                                                     24                  21
Malaria                                                               13                  15
Urban services and housing for the poor                               25                  29

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Eustache Ouayoro                     Pedro Alba
Sector Manager:            Alexander E. Bakalian                Eustache Ouayoro
Project Team Leader:       Mahine Diop                          Xavier Devictor
ICR Team Leader:           Mahine Diop
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Vang Eghoff




                                                vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To help DRC face urgent post-elections challenges by: (i) providing resources to
maintain macro-economic stability and fund critical expenditure in the immediate future;
and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in Kinshasa, which is key to
political and social stability.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To respond to urgent challenges by: (i) supporting domestic debt settlement; and (ii)
addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in targeted areas.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   People in urban areas with access to Improved Water Sources.
Value
quantitative or 89,000                      239,000             N/A            216,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/12/2007                    04/30/2009                         05/31/2013
                90% achieved. The project reported total beneficiaries with access to water in
Comments
                targeted areas, which is retained for the ICR. With baseline 0 additional people,
(incl. %
                the target was 150,000 additional people and the actual value was 127,000
achievement)
                additional people.
                People in urban areas provided with access to all-season roads within a 500 meter
Indicator 2 :
                range under the project.
Value
quantitative or 0                           800,000             N/A            1,300,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/12/2007                    03/31/2010                         05/31/2013
                163% achieved. More people were served by the roads than expected, although
Comments
                the length of roads rehabilitated by the project did not change. This was because
(incl. %
                the population densities of beneficiary neighborhoods were higher than estimated
achievement)
                at appraisal.
                Children under 5 years old sleeping under bed nets in targeted areas (Kinshasa
Indicator 3 :
                and Bandundu Province).
Value           32% Kinshasa;                                   N/A            65% Kinshasa;
                                            60% Kinshasa;
quantitative or 6% Bandundu on                                  80%            91% Bandundu on
                                            N/A Bandundu
Qualitative)    5/28/2010.                                      Bandundu       11/30/2012
Date achieved 03/12/2007                    02/28/2008          12/31/2011     01/31/2009
Comments
                108% achieved for Kinshasa as per post-distribution evaluation, 114% achieved
(incl. %
                for Bandundu Province as per post-distribution evaluation.
achievement)
                Schools receiving payments that have improved their learning environment
Indicator 4 :
                (basic school supplies, small equipment, and repairs, other pedagogical inputs).

                                               vii
Value
quantitative or 0%                        70%                75%              77%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/12/2007                  08/31/2008         12/31/2011       05/31/2013
                103% achieved. Result is average of beneficiary satisfaction survey (79% of
Comments
                schools had improved learning environment), and survey carried out for
(incl. %
                economic analysis of Education Component (75% of schools had improved
achievement)
                learning environment).
Indicator 5 : Creditors party to the amended settlement having received the full payment.
Value
quantitative or 0%                        95%                N/A              99.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/12/2007                  12/31/2007                          05/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        105% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Direct project beneficiaries (of which female).
Value
                                                             21.61 million 20.3 million
quantitative or 0                         N/A
                                                             (51.8%)          (51.8%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/12/2007                                     05/31/2012       05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        94% achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Eligible schools having received all installments.
Value
(quantitative     0%                        70%                90%               65%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                 08/31/2008          12/31/2011     05/31/2013
Comments          72% achieved. With non-disbursement of additional financing (exclusively
(incl. %          targeting secondary schools), only primary schools received all installments from
achievement)      the original project (which targeted primary as well as secondary schools).
Indicator 2 :     Roads rehabilitated, non-rural.
Value
(quantitative     0 km                      40.0 km            N/A               40.2 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                03/31/2010                           05/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          101% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Improved community water standposts constructed of rehabilitated under the

                                                viii
                  project.
Value
(quantitative     0                            80                 N/A              86
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                 04/30/2009                         05/31/2013
Comments          108% achieved. In reality 88 standposts were foreseen in the technical studies,
(incl. %          with 80 targeted by the project. In the end, 86 standposts were sufficient to cover
achievement)      the targeted neighborhoods.
Indicator 4 :     Primary, secondary and tertiary network built/rehabilitated.
Value
(quantitative     0                            140 km             N/A              85.3 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                  04/30/2009                          05/31/2013
Comments          61% achieved. The initial indicator overestimated the length of network needed
(incl. %          to reach the targeted areas; the actual quantities were sufficient to suit the project
achievement)      objective.
                  New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project
Indicator 5 :
                  intervention (number).
Value
(quantitative     0                            8,300              N/A              1,088
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                   04/30/2009                          05/31/2013
Comments
                  13% achieved. The project did not achieve the target, as the strategy was not
(incl. %
                  conducive to garnering interest for new connections (see main text for details).
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Long-lasting insecticide-treated malaria nets purchased and/or distributed.
Value
(quantitative     0                            2,000,000          4,500,000        4,781,851
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/12/2007                   02/28/2008         12/31/2011       12/31/2012
Comments
                  106% achieved. In reality the target (4.5 million) was set conservatively, so the
(incl. %
                  achievement (4.8 million) corresponds to full coverage as intended.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     09/28/2007              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       3.00
  2     03/28/2008              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     36.33
  3     09/25/2008              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     63.36
  4     03/27/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     76.15
  5     10/05/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     96.40
  6     02/03/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    105.89
  7     12/13/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    131.46
  8     08/16/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    144.84

                                                    ix
 9     02/14/2012           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory           171.31
 10    07/30/2012           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory           182.05
 11    02/10/2013           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory           189.45


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To provide additional financing
                                                     for the education, malaria, and
                                                     project management
                                                     components, adjust PDO and
 02/02/2011       Y       S       S         134.62   KPIs, and extend closing date
                                                     by one year to 05/31/2012.
                                                     Difference in amount disbursed
                                                     compared to Annex 1 is due to
                                                     exchange rate fluctuation.
                                                     To extend closing date by one
                                                     year to 05/31/2013 and effect
 04/25/2012               S     MS          172.81
                                                     minor reallocation of funds for
                                                     original Grant.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory




                                             x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) had experienced a decade of political
instability and conflict, with major fighting ending in 2001. A period of tumultuous
political transition ensued, with the first democratic elections ever organized in the
country since its independence held in 2006. This marked a key milestone in DRC’s
advance towards peace and stability. The situation remained volatile following the
elections and the challenge was to consolidate and expand achievements. Violence
continued to simmer in a few Eastern districts and in January of 2007, riots in the
Province of Bas Congo in the West claimed over 100 lives, illustrating the persistence of
political tensions.

2.      On the economic front the efforts made since 2001 were paying off with
economic growth at about 6 percent a year and a relatively stable, although fragile,
macroeconomic situation. The overall fiscal balance was under control at -0.7 percent of
GDP in 2006 and expenditure was 22.1 percent of GDP. But this should be seen on the
basis of per capita income of only US$139 and inflows of external assistance of about
US$15 per capita. The government’s resources were too limited to face urgent needs. The
debt-to-GDP ratio was very high at 120 percent and the current account deficit (including
official transfers) was expected to increase from 7 percent of GDP in 2006 to 10 percent
of GDP in 2011, reflecting DRC’s need for external capital. During the conflicts, the
government had accumulated US$1.3 billion in debt to domestic enterprises and foreign
reserves were chronically low, at times below two weeks of imports.

3.      The situation was explosive in many parts of the country; about 75 percent of the
Congolese lived on less than US$1 a day and social indicators were among the worst in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Infrastructure and services had considerably deteriorated during the
conflict. Chronic under-funding of the education system was a main cause of low school
enrollment and completion rates – the most recent figures showed a primary enrollment
rate of 54 percent in 1990 and a completion rate of 39 percent in 2005. The result was a
literacy rate of about 32 percent.

4.      Urban economic collapse and inflows of displaced persons combined to create a
highly volatile environment in urban areas. Infrastructure had not been maintained and in
Kinshasa many neighborhoods were isolated from the city center. About 13 percent of the
city’s roads were tarred and properly drained; the rest were constructed in dirt and
without drainage. Less than a third of all roads in the city were passable by car. The
operational performance of the water utility company (REGIDESO) had declined
considerably and the rate of water supply services coverage in urban areas had fallen,
from 68 percent in 1990 to 35 percent in 2006. In Kinshasa, 40 percent of the population
had direct access to water. Water-related and water-borne diseases, particularly malaria,
were among the main causes of mortality with an estimated 12,000 children under 5 years
old dying from malaria in Kinshasa every year.



                                           1
Government strategy and response
5.       The new government, elected in 2006, had centered its recovery strategy on
improving governance and fighting corruption, restoring security throughout the country,
rebuilding infrastructure, improving social services delivery (particularly education and
health), and creating jobs. This strategy was consistent with the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP, 2006-2010) adopted in 2006 which was based on five pillars: (a)
promoting good governance and consolidating peace; (b) consolidating macroeconomic
stability and economic growth; (c) improving access to social services and reducing
vulnerability; (d) combating HIV/AIDS; and (e) promoting community dynamics. Faced
with a tight budget situation the government called upon its development partners to
provide emergency assistance to support its efforts in the early post-elections period, to
help provide basic services and maintain economic and political stability, while waiting
for support to materialize through traditional donor-funded development programs.

World Bank strategy and response
6.      The World Bank response was part of a broad and multi-dimensional effort by the
international community, which included an important security effort, the continuation of
political mediation, economic assistance, debt relief, and humanitarian aid. More
specifically, the Bank was leading a significant donor harmonization effort centered on a
Country Assistance Framework (CAF), involving 14 donor agencies. The CAF provided
the underpinning of the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 2007-2011),
under preparation and approved by the Board on December 18, 2007. In the CAS, the
Bank articulated a multifold response aimed at helping the government face the
immediate challenges of the post-elections period, which included support in developing
a recovery strategy, accelerating implementation of the existing portfolio, and provision
of additional financing under OP13.20 (Additional Financing for Investment Lending) to
scale up successful ongoing projects and support recovery activities.

7.      Pressure to deliver “peace dividends” - improvements in basic services,
infrastructure, and income opportunities - was heightened by the risk of relapse into
violence, particularly in urban areas, with influential and vocal populations. The Bank
had a comparative advantage in the design and implementation of rehabilitation programs
that pave the way for economic recovery in post-conflict countries and support peace
consolidation and social stability, specifically in the DRC, and was seen by both the
government and other donors as one of the most adept financiers of such efforts. The
proposed operation would build on this experience and comparative advantage. The
Emergency Urban and Social Rehabilitation Project (EUSRP) was fully in line with the
CAS objective of concentrating on areas which have a relatively high population density,
with a specific focus on peri-urban areas with low service coverage rates. This would
allow the Bank-financed activities to reach the most vulnerable and improve access to
services.

8.     The EUSRP was an integral part of the portfolio of Bank-funded projects, both
ongoing and in the pipeline, which together would help address the most pressing needs
throughout the country: (a) the Emergency Multi-sector Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project (EMRRP, 2002), targeted the most basic and urgent needs



                                            2
through community sub-projects; (b) the Emergency Economic and Social Reunification
Support Project (EESRSP, 2004), contributed to stabilizing the economy and the social
fabric in the Eastern and Northern provinces; and (c) the Emergency Living Conditions
Improvement Support Project (ELCISP, 2005) focused on the remaining provinces
outside Kinshasa. By financing the EUSRP the Bank could complement the support
provided elsewhere and also support emergency efforts in Kinshasa, which was receiving
a disproportionately small part of donor assistance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

9.      The original PDO was to help the DRC face urgent post-elections challenges by:
(i) providing resources to maintain macro-economic stability and fund critical
expenditures in the immediate future; and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social
needs in Kinshasa, which was key to political and social stability. This was expected to
help create an environment in which reforms could be sustained and to prevent political
and economic regression, which may otherwise have resulted in social instability, civil
unrest and possibly reversion to conflict.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

10.     The PDO was revised in connection with provision of Additional Financing to the
Project on February 2, 2011 to make it more focused and realistic and remove the
reference to post-elections challenges. The revised PDO was to respond to urgent
challenges by: (i) supporting domestic debt settlement; and (ii) addressing urgent
rehabilitation and social needs in targeted areas.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

11.     The original primary target group was the population of Kinshasa benefiting from
distribution of Insecticide-Treated Bed Nets (ITNs) as a means to reduce the number of
malaria cases. In Kinshasa, additional benefits would accrue to the population of poor
neighborhoods targeted for improvements in water supply and roads under the project.
Other beneficiaries were the owners of companies that were part of a debt settlement
scheme supported by the Project. Pupils of primary and secondary schools throughout the
country and their parents would benefit from better learning environment through the
Project’s contribution to sustaining some operating expenditures of the schools. An
Additional Financing (AF) for the project was approved in 2011 to: (a) expand
geographic scope of ITN distribution to Bandundu Province, where the population would
benefit from protection against malaria; and (b) finance an additional year of operating
expenditures for secondary schools throughout the country to the benefit of pupils and
families.




                                            3
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Support to education recovery through finance of select recurrent
expenditures (US$45.00 million)

12.    This component would finance select recurrent, non-salary expenditures for about
26,000 schools (about 18,000 primary and 8,000 secondary schools) throughout the
country (with about 13.5 million pupils) for an amount of about US$8 million per quarter
between grant effectiveness and the completion of the 2007-08 school year. The
component was expected to test an effort that would eventually be implemented on
government’s own resource (possibly with donor support) and result in a reduction of
school fees paid by the parents. The component would also fund implementation
expenditure for Service de Contrôle de la Paie des Enseignants (Department for
Monitoring the Payment of Teacher Salaries, SECOPE), transfer fees, a communication
campaign, and audits of the payments.

Component 2: Completion of the domestic debt settlement (US$50.00 million)

13.     This component would finance the completion of a Bank-supported process for
settling the debt accrued by the government to domestic suppliers during the conflict,
which ended in 2001. A total of 379 creditors would benefit based on an already
completed audit of creditors and negotiated discount between the government and
creditors for a debt of US$1.3 billion. A first tranche (for 2005, 50 percent of discounted
debts) had been paid under a Bank-funded Post-Reunification Economic Relaunch
Credit. The EUSRP would pay the two remaining tranches (2006 and 2007, 25 percent
each), as well as audits of the payments and impact evaluation. This was expected to
contribute to improving the investment climate and to injecting resources likely to
increase the available working capital for private sector activities, as well as to improve
the relationship between the government and its suppliers and thus contribute to restoring
an efficient and transparent public expenditure environment.

Component 3: Rehabilitation of priority urban roads in Kinshasa (US$42.00
million)

14.    This component would finance rehabilitation of about 40 kilometers of access
roads to poor neighborhoods, which was expected to restore or significantly improve
accessibility by vehicle to poor neighborhoods, with an estimated 800,000 direct
beneficiaries. An initial tranche of road works was determined during preparation, based
on available studies that needed to be updated, and a second tranche of works was to be
determined during implementation, based on economic and needs criteria. The
component also included limited institutional support to the Office de Voirie et Drainage
(Urban Roads Agency, OVD) for monitoring component implementation.




                                            4
Component 4: Water and Sanitation in peri-urban areas of Kinshasa (US$25.00
million)

15.    This component would finance completion of the Lukaya water system (in the
South-Western part of Kinshasa) to benefit fully from a newly constructed water
treatment plant: (a) update of the technical studies available from the Bank-funded
EMRRP, (b) storage facilities and expansion of the distribution network to poor
neighborhoods (Mont Ngafula, Ngaliema, Lemba, and Selembao), and (c) installation of
household connections and water standposts. This was expected to provide access to
potable water to approximately 150,000 additional people who had inadequate access to
water.

Component 5: Malaria reduction and prevention (US$13.00 million)

16.    This component would finance the distribution of ITNs to all households in
Kinshasa (about 2 million ITNs in total), as a means of reducing malaria-related
mortality, particularly among children under the age of 5. The component would also
finance a communications campaign and an impact evaluation.

Component 6: Project management (US$5 million)

17.    This component would finance the management of project implementation,
including incremental operating expenditures of the Unité de Coordination de Projets
(Project Coordination Unit, UCoP) already implementing several other Bank-funded
emergency projects, monitoring and evaluation, procurement agent, socio-environmental
studies and monitoring and attenuation of social and environmental impacts through
technical assistance, as well as audits.

1.6 Revised Components

18.    An AF agreement was signed for the project on February 2, 2011 to scale up the
Education and Malaria Components and finance additional operating expenditures as
follows (also see financing tables in Annex 1):

       Component 1 (Education): Additional financing of US$19.5 million (for a total
        component allocation of US$64.5 million) to pay for an additional two tranches of
        payment of select operating expenditures to about 10,000 1 secondary schools
        throughout the country (the Education Sector Reform Support Project was taking
        over payments to primary schools).
       Component 2 (Malaria): Additional financing of US$19.5 million (for a total
        component financing of US$32.5 million), to replicate the successful ITN
        distribution campaign in Kinshasa to the Bandundu Province.


1
  Up from 8,000 secondary schools in the original project, as more schools had been established and
registered in the meantime.



                                                    5
      Component 6 (Project Management): Additional financing of US$1.0 million (for
       a total component financing of US$6 million) to allow UCoP to implement all
       activities.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.     The AF was used to extend the closing date from May 31, 2011 to May 31, 2012.
The extension was not triggered by the AF activities but due to delays with implementing
the Roads and Water Components caused by technical difficulties and time taken to
manage the resettlement process. A second project extension, from May 31, 2012 to May
31, 2013, was granted on April 25, 2012, to allow completion of activities under the
original Roads and Water Components (continued technical difficulties) and the AF for
the Education Component. The Education AF was experiencing delay due to time taken
to complete the audit of the last payment of operating expenditures funded by the original
project (which had to be acceptable to the Bank, as a disbursement condition for the
Education AF). The second extension was also used to approve a reallocation of funds
between components due to cost savings (See details in Section 2.2 and reallocation table
in Annex 1).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation and design
20.     The project preparation period was highly contracted, with less than four months
between concept review (December 6, 2006) and project approval by the Board (March
29, 2007). This short preparation period was necessary to respond to the emergency
situation, as there was tremendous pressure on the Bank to deliver quickly to help
mitigate the volatile situation. By leveraging existing studies the project could be
prepared without making use of a Project Preparation Advance, so an informed tradeoff
was made between the need for fast preparation and committing resources on one hand
and accepting some unknown elements not having fully updated technical studies prior to
appraisal on the other hand. In the short preparation time, the Bank and client together
managed to design a project that could address some of the most pressing needs and lay
the groundwork for longer-term development efforts in regular sector projects, as
described below.

21.     The rationale for the Bank’s intervention is demonstrated by the experience in
designing emergency operations in the DRC, and the ability to design and fund follow-on
sector operations for sustainability of the emergency interventions. Success of the project
in the timeframe needed to have an impact on the socio-political situation depended on
the use of flexible and accelerated procedures as allowed under OP8.00, particularly in
the processing of project preparation, safeguards compliance, procurement, and
disbursement arrangements. Safeguard studies were to be completed within six months of
effectiveness. In line with OP 8.00 the project did not directly address long-term
economic issues or policy and institutional reforms.



                                            6
22.      The implementation arrangements were suitable, with an overall coordinating
agency (UCoP) and relying as much as possible on other government agencies or
institutions (SECOPE for education, OVD for roads, REGIDESO for water, for Malaria
the Provincial Health Institute (Institut Provincial de Santé, IPS) and the National
Program to Fight Malaria (PNLP), as well as the Cellule de Dette Publique Intérieure
(Public Domestic Debt Unit – CDPI) for implementation. OVD and REGIDESO had
rather limited capacity, so they would not be responsible for implementation, but would
participate fully in defining needs, developing studies and supervising works
implementation, while receiving training and equipment support to improve their ability
to implement future works. To keep UCoP as a light structure, the sound choice was
made to select UNOPS by sole source selection to manage the procurement process for
the Roads and Water Components, as they were the only capable procurement agent
present in Kinshasa and the project needed to move quickly. A specialized agency would
be selected to distribute ITNs (IPS), since no government agency possessed the capacity
to carry out this task and another agency would be recruited to overcome capacity gaps in
safeguards monitoring (Sofreco).

23.      The concept was agreed with the government based on the need to provide peace
dividends and lessen post-election tensions in Kinshasa, hitherto benefiting from a
disproportionately small share of reconstruction efforts, while also providing limited
country-wide benefits in the crucial education sector and contributing to boosting
reemergence of the private sector. The project would generate visible benefits to the
population (especially in volatile Kinshasa), as a means to contribute to averting a social
crisis that could jeopardize the hard-earned results of the political transition and reverse
achievements under the peace process. Therefore it was fully justified to develop a multi-
sector project, in spite of the inherent implementation complexities from many disparate
activities in several sectors. The fact of having an implementing agency with
demonstrated ability to deliver (UCoP) meant that the complexity was evaluated as
acceptable given the expected benefits.

24.     The PDO reflected the emergency situation and the support provided by the
project through targeting macroeconomic stability, improving access to social services
and reducing vulnerability. Although the project interventions could reasonably be
expected to help create an environment in which reforms could be sustained and to
prevent political and economic regression, the PDO was phrased as a higher-order
objective and should have been more specific and with results more clearly attributable to
project interventions.

25.     The two first components (Education and Debt) aimed at supporting the new
government in maintaining macro-economic stability and in funding critical expenditures
The Education Component introduced a novel concept for the payment of operating
expenditures in schools, justified by these being critical to the functioning of the
education system, reaching the whole country with benefits, and laying the groundwork
for turning around a dysfunctional school system. The component would provide funds to
the level that has the most impact on enhancing the education environment and quality of
education. The component was designed to include parents in decisions regarding



                                             7
expenditures, for a more inclusive and better targeting of investments. The component
turned out to be more complex than expected, and the PAD could have been more
explicit about the element of uncertainty in launching a novel process in the sector
covering the whole territory. Domestic debt settlement was expected to lead to increased
confidence of the private sector in the government’s ability to pay its bills and in turn to
increased private sector investments. The debt component was based on an already
ongoing process supported by the Bank, but for which the funding was lacking, and could
disburse quickly.

26.     The three other components (Roads, Water, and Malaria) aimed at addressing
urgent rehabilitation and social needs and were selected on the basis of the provincial
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for Kinshasa and retained based on their
expected impact on living conditions, the likelihood of being implemented rapidly and
their complementarity with other Bank- or donor-funded operations. The Road and Water
Components were designed based on available and relatively recent technical design
studies, which provided some reassurance that the components could disburse quickly.
During implementation it transpired that the studies were more outdated than could have
been expected, which did result in some delays. The activities were coordinated with
other ongoing activities. The Road Component would be implemented in two tranches, to
allow quick disbursement while keeping some funds for rehabilitation works to be
determined during implementation based on a more detailed determination of needs. For
the Water Component the update of technical studies prepared in 2003 was carried out
during preparation, on funds for another World Bank-funded project (EMRRP).
Distribution of ITNs had proven extremely efficient and effective in reducing the impact
of the malaria scourge on especially poor households in the Eastern Provinces and the
lessons were used to design the malaria component, to provide immediate benefits to the
population of Kinshasa.

27.     The design of each component was mostly adequate and simple, with the
exception of the Education Component, and relied on existing technical studies and the
ongoing process for debt settlement. Regrouping the distinct components in one project
was a good way for the Bank to quickly provide multi-faceted support in the emergency
context. For each component the government sector ministry or responsible agency was
fully involved in preparation and the Technical Reform Committee in the Ministry of
Finance also played a coordinating role. OVD was involved in updating technical studies
for the Road Component, a convention was signed between UCoP and the IPS to
coordinate with other health programs in Kinshasa. Specialized firms were to be recruited
to assure procurement and safeguards aspects, while the existing Project Coordinating
Unit in the Ministry of Planning (UCoP, already implementing the Bank-funded EESRSP
and ELCISP) was charged with project preparation to overcome capacity constraints in
the government administration.

Quality at entry
28.      The quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory. The client and Task Team
put together a multifaceted response in a short period of time which included relevant
activities that aimed to address the most urgent and unmet needs for reconstruction and



                                             8
service delivery. Components were designed to address an array of the most urgent
needs, but the PDO was phrased as a higher level objective. Design built on emerging
good practices and available studies to the extent possible. The Debt and Malaria
Components were realistically expected to disburse quickly. The expected timing of
implementation of the other components in the PAD was less realistic; the quality of
available studies should have been checked closer. Substantial shortcomings on these
technical studies became apparent during implementation, and the time needed for
implementation of three of five components was substantially underestimated, which is
an important element of an emergency operation.

2.2 Implementation

29.      The project was declared effective on July 6, 2007, within the 90 day period from
the signing of the financing agreement on April 11, 2007. The Domestic Debt Settlement
and Malaria Components were implemented without major problems, whereas the
Education, Roads, and Water Components encountered some implementation difficulties
and delays. The mid-term review in November 2009 was used to correct some of these
problems, and the AF approved in February 2011 used to scale up the well-performing
components. On April 25, 2012, the project was extended and slight reallocations
between components approved by the Bank (see below and Annex 1). At the project
closing date all activities were completed, with the exception of the AF for the Education
Component, and all infrastructures are operational as confirmed by technical audits and
site visits (see Annex 2 on project outputs). The project generally made good use of mass
communication, especially for the Education, Water, and Malaria Components; Radio
Okapi was used to reach a large part of households, combined with more targeted
communication in the beneficiary areas. Due to the multi-sector nature of the EUSRP,
factors that contributed to successful implementation or gave rise to problems are
presented below by component.

Component 1: Education
30.      The component got off to a slow start, as it turned out that the short preparation
time had not allowed a sufficiently detailed review of the payment system. The expected
timing of payments had been too optimistic and it was not possible to pay five quarters in
a row, as expected in the PAD, since between each payment audits had to be finalized,
and the quality had to be improved before they could be approved by the Bank. This was
not possible given the size of the country and difficulties reaching areas not served by
banks and which were cut off from major urban centers due to lack of maintenance of
road infrastructure during the conflict – first with payments, then to do the audits. On top
of this, each audit revealed shortcomings of the payment manual, which was then updated
to incorporate emerging lessons before payment of the ensuing tranche. In spite of these
difficulties, successive audit reports confirmed that procedures were broadly
implemented according the rules and that communication activities to keep families
updated on the program were implemented. Management committees were operational in
each school, use of funds was defined through consultative meetings before each
payment and amounts of funds received and their use were posted publically. The impact
on functioning of schools was evaluated after each tranche.



                                             9
31.     The component was satisfactory implemented and was fully disbursed by May
2010. This achievement triggered an Additional Financing to pay two semester tranches
of operating expenditures for about 10,000 secondary schools (in the meantime, the
Education Sector Reform Support Project had become effective and was paying for
primary school operating expenditures). In the end, the AF could not be implemented due
to two hindrances occurring successively. First, the audit of the final payment tranche of
operating expenditures under the original project had highlighted potential ineligible
expenditure. It took over a year for SECOPE to justify these expenditures, which was a
condition of disbursement for any operating expenditures under the AF. Secondly, once
the education expenditures had been justified, the Education Component was affected by
the late justification by UNICEF of expenditures under the Malaria Component. As the
Designated Account could not be replenished until these expenditures had been justified,
and raising the maximum level of the Designated Account would mean unacceptable risk,
there was only US$4.2 million available in the Designated Account instead of US$9.5
million required for one tranche. It was decided not to pay only half the amount to
beneficiaries, as there would have been no time to audit the last payment before the
closing date, which should have taken place as a project activity.

Component 2: Domestic Debt Settlement
32.     The settlement of domestic debt was carried out without any major issue. The
payments were made through commercial banks and based on the audited list of
creditors, provided by the CDPI, set in place to oversee the process and with participation
of government representatives as well as creditors. The first tranche (US$23.82 million)
was paid to creditors in December 2007 upon receipt of prior verification of creditors by
an audit firm and the second tranche (US$24.99 million) was paid in May 2008 upon
receipt of the audit of the first tranche. This was a slight delay compared to PAD
estimates (second tranche expected in December 2007), due to time taken to recruit the
auditor and receive the audit on the first tranche (for 2005), which was satisfactory and
unqualified. The component savings and balance (US$2.79 million), which was due to
lower than expected audit costs and two firms (out of 379 beneficiary firms for the
second and third tranches for 2006 and 2007) choosing not to accept the negotiated
discounted settlement, was reallocated in April 2012. It should be noted that the EUSRP
did not negotiate the discount rates; they were part of a pre-existing agreement negotiated
with the assistance of a specialized firm.

Component 3: Roads
33.     Startup of road rehabilitation was significantly delayed compared to appraisal
expectations, since it took a full year from project approval to update technical studies
and prepare bidding documents. The crisis and lack of maintenance had led to very
significant degradation from the initial date of studies (in 2004) and contract amendments
had to be done for new topographical surveys. The bidding process for the first tranche
was launched by UNOPS on May 14, 2008 and the works were completed in September
2011, after some delay caused by necessary further adjustments to studies during
implementation and the need to redo some of the works due to low quality.




                                            10
34.     The second tranche of works was determined in consultation between OVD and
the mayor based on criteria of needs, economic viability, and to avoid resettlement. A list
of 46 candidate sections was reduced to 18, to be constructed in two lots, with
consideration to the need to regroup sections for maximum impact. The tendering of
studies was launched by UNOPS on April 23, 2008. After problems for one contractor to
respect deadlines, part of the works for one lot of works of the second tranche were
transferred, by mutual consent and by contractual addendum, to the contractor already
working on the other lot (the second lowest bidder for the first lot). This allowed the full
package of works to be completed and received by the project closing date. During
implementation, OVD received support to monitor and evaluate this component through a
partnership agreement with UCoP.

Component 4: Water
35.     Based on the available technical studies, bidding documents were prepared and
the works were awarded to the contractor in November 2009. Startup of works was
delayed until January 2011 due to time taken to agree on who should pay compensation
to project affected persons (finance the Resettlement Action Plan - RAP) and clear the
sites. The project financed communications campaigns by radio and by local presence
and an NGO was recruited to assist the compensated persons to invest their recompense
in income-generating activities.

36.     Before startup of works, a technical audit was carried out on the design studies,
which had been prepared during a post-conflict situation and were further becoming
outdated. This resulted in changes to the design of the network and cost savings which
allowed an additional settling tank and an access road to a water reservoir to be
constructed. The targeted number of household connections was 8,300 initially, but
reduced to 5,000 as the production capacity was thought to be less than originally
planned. REGIDESO maintained the standard fee for establishing a household
connection, although the inputs were financed by the project and the utility company also
sought to reduce the number of household connections near water standposts constructed
by the project, since this was sought to create less demand for water from the standposts
and undermine the market for standpost operators. These factors in essence explain why
only 1,088 household connections resulted from the project, although REGIDESO had
list of 2,000 interested parties for a household connection. After agreement between
REGIDESO and the Bank, these connections will be established under the ongoing Bank-
funded Urban Water Supply Project (UWSP). During implementation, REGIDESO
received support to monitor and evaluate this component through a partnership agreement
with UCoP.

Component 5: Malaria
37.     Training was implemented by PNLP for a large number of people involved in the
distribution both in Kinshasa and later in Bandundu Province, relying on experiences
from the Eastern Provinces where the process was already up and running. In Kinshasa,
the NGO PSI was recruited to carry out awareness-raising and distribution activities.
Component implementation started with an awareness-raising campaign, following which
two ITNs were distributed per household from October 2008 to January 2009. During



                                            11
distribution, persistent rumors circulated that ITNs were toxic, and the WHO, national
health authorities and the project had to spend significant efforts to contain these rumors
through additional communication and outreach efforts. A follow-up campaign was
implemented to make sure the ITNs were used correctly. The AF in Bandundu followed
the same approach, with UNICEF recruited to procure ITNs and carry out awareness-
raising and distribution. The difference from Kinshasa was that three ITNs were
distributed per household to take into account the larger households. Distribution in
Bandundu was delayed due to the 2011 elections and to some logistical problems, but the
full component was completed by November 2012.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
38.     At appraisal, the PDO indicators, baselines, and targets were available related to
each component, although the presentation in the PAD Results Annex does not correctly
distinguish activities, outputs, indicators, and targets. UCoP was made responsible for
regular tracking of indicators based on information provided by the relevant agencies and
organizing meetings with implementing partners and beneficiaries. The M&E team was
already in place in UCoP and fully operational from having already worked on the Bank-
financed EESRSP and ELCISP. The core M&E functions were thus operational, but the
quality of M&E during implementation would have been higher if the project design had
included M&E training to OVD and REGIDESO.

Implementation
39.     Output data was regularly collected and disbursements and physical outputs were
linked in the project monitoring reports. When the AF restructuring was agreed the PDO
was correctly adjusted to take into account the expanded geographic scope of the malaria
component and the fact that the post-election crisis was over. The revised results
framework had adequate indicators to measure the impact on beneficiaries (except for the
debt component, which was output oriented). During the AF restructuring the relevant
core indicators were added to the results framework to allow reporting on institutional
goals.

40.     The project made good use of surveys. To overcome the scarcity and unreliability
of data in the post-conflict situation, surveys were carried out for the Education
Component in connection with the audits after payment of each tranche to verify use of
the transferred funds, which allowed the project to gradually improve the
communications campaign towards the parents. An impact evaluation was carried out for
the Debt Component in 2009 shortly after the payment of the second tranche, with a
follow-up survey in 2013, providing useful information for evaluation purposes. The
post-distribution campaign surveys for the Malaria Component were carried out by the
School of Public Health (ESP) in Kinshasa based on recognized sector standards with in-
field verification, which assured high quality of data. The Road Component made use of
the standard (core indicator) methodology for estimating the number of beneficiaries
based on length of road and population density. Overall the data available to evaluate
these four components in the ICR is adequate, although the quality had to be reviewed
regularly by the Bank and the quality of M&E was rated Moderately Satisfactory in


                                            12
several ISRs. More attention should have been paid to developing an adequate
methodology for measuring the number of beneficiaries from the Water Component,
linked to the expected project outputs, and to adjust the output indicators in line with
adjustments to changed implementation schedules. There was also some minor
imprecisions by the Bank when filling out the Implementation Status and Results Reports
(ISRs), such as targets being adjusted rather than progress for the number of water
standposts.

Utilization
41.     The ability to report results data meant that the project could present evidence of
the impact of the Education and Malaria Components, which lead to the AF being
approved. The knowledge of component performance was used to raise the bar for the
AF, for which the Education Component was set to reach a higher proportion of schools,
and the better knowledge of the potential coverage of ITNs was used to increase the
target for coverage in Bandundu. In general the involved agencies are in better position to
carry out M&E activities after the project than before. M&E data should have been used
more actively to follow up on the expected increase in access to water resulting from the
project following the down-scale of the number of expected water connections
established under the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards
42.     The project was rated category B as no major environmental impacts were
identified. Safeguard policies triggered were OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment)
and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), due to the construction activities under the
Roads and Water Components. The Environment and Social Management Framework
and Resettlement Policy Framework were prepared late, 13 months after effectiveness
(the Financing Agreement had a timeframe of 6 months), due to difficulties to recruit a
capable firm to carry out the studies. The Bank Task Team and management actively
monitored the issue and ensured that no construction works took place prior to the
completion and disclosure of the safeguards instruments. Environmental Management
Plans and RAPs specific to each lot of construction work were developed and included in
the bidding documents, as required. To assure adequate safeguards implementation
during construction, a specialized firm (Sofreco) was hired to accompany UCoP, OVD
and REGIDESO.

43.     Discussions between the government and the Bank regarding the payment of
indemnities in cash (US$1,215,322) to persons affected by the Water Component meant
that start of works was delayed until January 2011. The Bank procedures did not allow
payment of cash compensation on Bank funds, but finally the Bank consented to waiving
this provision to allow works to commence, as the government did not have funds to pay
the compensations. An NGO was recruited to accompany the beneficiaries of cash
compensation to invest their compensation in revenue-generating activities. A total of 72
heads of households received training on how to use their compensation for income-
generation activities, benefiting 245 people in the affected households. Throughout the
project and during each supervision mission Bank safeguards specialists verified that


                                            13
Bank safeguards were respected and this was further confirmed by technical audits. The
delayed preparation of safeguards documents presented a performance shortcoming of
project management, but since all works were implemented in full respect of prepared
and adequate safeguards studies and instruments, Bank safeguards (in this case OP/BP
4.01 and OP/BP 4.12) were fully complied with.

Fiduciary compliance
44.     Financial compliance. Regular financial supervision as part of implementation
support missions found that the project has complied with Bank procedures and policies
regarding financial reporting and auditing. Audit reports and Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs) were submitted to the Bank on time and there were no overdue external audit
reports and IFRs at the time of the project closing date. All audit reports and IFRs were
reviewed by the Bank and comments provided to the government. One instance of a
qualified financial report with accountability issues was received, related to the Education
Component, and was due to disconnect between the government payment system and the
procedures described in the payment manual, which was subsequently updated. The FM
rating of the project was downgraded until the issue was resolved. It was concluded that
ineligible expenditures of US$32,000 for training activities should be reimbursed to the
Bank, which was done by the government. All FM issues which had justified the project
financial management Moderately Satisfactory rating were addressed before the project
closing date except the balance of the Designated Account for about US$4.2 million. The
amount was refunded to the Bank by Banque Centrale du Congo by transfer on
November 25, 2013. At the closing date, the Project’s performance in financial
management was considered Satisfactory.

45.     Procurement compliance. The project complied with Bank procurement
procedures and policies. Regular post procurement reviews did not reveal any
irregularities. A technical audit carried out in June 2013 confirmed that procurement
methods and thresholds have been respected. At the closing date, the Project’s
performance in procurement was considered Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

46.      Post-completion operation of outputs and continued use of procedures set in place
by the project is assured overall. Some construction defects were observed by works
supervisors during construction, the most serious one being badly constructed drains
along a road in a swampy area. The works were redone and technical audits confirmed
that all infrastructures are fully operational. The government and the Bank have decided
to move from emergency projects to sector projects, to pave the way for sustained access
to basic services and address the sustainability requirements of basic services. The post-
completion operation of each component is described below.

47.   Component 1: Education. Following the EUSRP activities, the Education Sector
Reform Support Project (approved FY07) took over and paid some operating
expenditures for primary schools. Presently the government is gradually taking on the
payments of operating expenditures of primary schools, using the manual prepared by
EUSRP, and has budgeted US$40 million for 2013 to this effect. The government has


                                            14
implemented a primary education fee-free policy until the 5th grade (except for Kinshasa
and Lubumbashi).

48.     Component 2: Domestic Debt Settlement. There is no next phase for this
component, since with the EUSRP the government finalized settlement of its debts with
the private sector, accrued during the years of conflict.

49.    Component 3: Roads. OVD is in charge of maintaining roads, and local
maintenance committees are in place. However, the process of preparation of
maintenance schedules by OVD, submission to the Road Maintenance Fund (FONER)
and execution of maintenance works is new and has yet to demonstrate its efficiency. The
World Bank is supporting this process through operations in the transport sector (the
PRO-ROUTES project).

50.    Component 4: Water. A clearer strategy for operation and maintenance of water
standposts is being developed under the ongoing Bank-financed UWSP to assure that
adequate incentives are in place for optimal investment strategy to assure maximum
coverage, while minimizing losses. This operation finances activities to improve and
expand water supply services in major urban centers, including installation of 275,000
water meters and is also supporting sector reform through the setting in place of a
Performance Contract between the government and REGIDESO (signed on February 27,
2012).

51.     Component 5: Malaria. The ITNs distributed are in use, as demonstrated by post-
distribution surveys. The Bank supported distribution in 6 other provinces under the
Health Sector Rehabilitation Project in 2011. The government has a program (not yet
fully funded) for continued cyclical mass and regular distribution to assure continued
coverage of ITNs.

52.     Component 6: Project Management. After closing of a number of Bank-funded
operations implemented by UCoP the agency has reduced its activity level. Currently
reflections are ongoing on how to assure continued use of the capacities developed in
project implementation, potentially as a private sector entity.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

53.     The changes to PDO and other adjustments during implementation assure that the
project remains relevant to current development priorities for the DRC. To reflect the
gradually diminishing emergency situation the initial PDO, with a somewhat too wide
focus and specific mention of the 2006 post-election situation, was correctly changed in
connection with the approval of the AF to be more in line with the expanded scope and
changed context. The substitution of “targeted areas” for “Kinshasa” was also more
precise, as the Malaria Component for the AF had different geographic focus. The
indicator on PAD school payment was replaced with a more relevant indicator on
improved learning environment. The multi-sectoral design was relevant to address the


                                          15
emergency situation in ways that sector investment projects could not do in the short
timeframe available, and contained elements that facilitated transition to regular sector
operations and institutional development. The scale-up of the project was relevant to
increase development impact and expand geographic scope as addressing the post-
election crisis was no longer pressing. The implementation arrangements were relevant,
and remained so throughout, with specialized government agencies contributing to
project implementation, which facilitates transition to post-completion operation.

54.     The design of individual sector components remains relevant to DRC’s current
development needs, as the 2011-2015 PRSP-2 explicitly espouses the sectors and
approaches supported by the EUSRP. The health, education, water, and transport sectors
are all part of the latest World Bank CAS for the DRC (2013-2016), which is derived
from the PRSP-2. As detailed below, the interventions in each sector supported by the
EUSRP remain relevant in light of current government and World Bank priorities.

55.     Component 1: Education. The payment of school operating expenditure is an
important element of the government’s strategy for improved education. The education
sector figures prominently in the PRSP-2 (2011-2015). Sector expenditure is increasing
as a share of domestic resources (from 9.05 percent in 2007 to 12.8 percent in 2012),
which will help attain the goal of fee-free primary education as part of the government’s
Interim Education Plan (IEP, 2012-2014), which also aims to improve system
management. The EUSRP improved accountability and governance of SECOPE systems
for paying operating expenditures in schools; the government is currently using these
systems to assure better targeting of expenditure through involvement of local
stakeholders in expenditure decisions. The Bank’s engagement under the current CAS
will emphasize maintaining strategic and sustained engagement to strengthen service
delivery systems in education. In line with the World Bank 2011 Education Sector
Strategy (Learning for All) these operations take a systems approach to improving
educational outcome; one of the elements of this is improving is financing rules, which
the EUSRP relevantly contributed to. The Education AF was designed based on the
numerous updates to the payment manual and it could not be foreseen that it would take
over a year to justify expenditures of the last payment of the original education financing.

56.     Component 2: Domestic Debt Settlement. Debt management and reduction
continues to be an essential part of government policies and World Bank CAS. Debt
accrual to direct suppliers has been reduced, but the government has continued to
accumulate debt through state-owned enterprises (SOEs). Managing debt (which reform
of SOEs will contribute to) is an integral part of the CAS objective to increase state
effectiveness and improve good governance with an aim to increase transparency and
effective management of public finances.

57.     Component 3: Roads. Upgrading urban roads in Kinshasa continues to be relevant
and is part of the PRSP-2 pillar two: Diversifying the economy, accelerating growth, and
promoting employment. The World Bank-funded Urban Development Project (US$100
million, FY13) was developed as part of the new CAS and will continue to fund
upgrading of urban roads with an objective to reap benefits from economies of



                                            16
agglomeration, in line with the World Bank 2009 Urban and Local Government Strategy
(Systems of Cities) which highlights transport as essential in connecting poor people with
economic opportunities. The EUSRP design is in line with this objective.

58.     Component 4: Water. Government’s priority for the PRSP-2 period will be to
pursue the reform of the water sector. Increasing access to drinking water in urban areas
will be done through vast programs of rehabilitation and extension of infrastructure and
the construction of new systems, similar to the activities funded by EUSRP as emergency
measures, but also introducing an element of sector reform. The CAS outcome 3.1 is
increased access to clean water and sanitation, which is being supported by the ongoing
UWSP which also supports improved performance of REGIDESO. The new water vision
for the World Bank is being developed to capture the changing focus on multi-sector and
integrated approaches to managing water resources. The EUSRP approach is still highly
relevant in terms of providing access to water. In spite of the emergency nature of the
project, relevant lessons were generated that are now being operationalized under the
UWSP for effective operation of water standposts, fee setting for connections and tariffs.

59.     Component 5: Malaria. Distribution of ITNs is still highly relevant and continues
to be one of the government’s main strategies to fight malaria in the PRSP-2. A national
program for malaria control is in place (2013-2017) for continued cyclical mass
distribution (every 5 years) combined with routine distribution of ITNs to maintain
national coverage. The World Bank has continued to support the fight against malaria in
the DRC through the Health Sector Reform Support Program (closing in June, 2014), as
part of the global goal set by the global Roll-Back Malaria (RBM) partnership of
eliminating malaria as a major public health problem in Africa by 2015.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

60.     Achievement of PDO is rated Satisfactory. This rating is derived by carrying out a
split evaluation of the project against the PDO before and after restructuring, as measured
through the PDO indicators and targets. The results obtained for the split evaluation are
weighted according to disbursements before and after restructuring (when the AF was
granted). Disbursement at the time of restructuring was US$131.99 million,
corresponding to 64.2 percent of final disbursements of US$205.60 million at the end of
the project. The disbursement overview per component is given in Annex 1.

Before Restructuring
61.    The achievement of PDO before restructuring is rated Satisfactory. The
achievement of PDO was measured by 5 indicators, one per investment component:

       99 percent of eligible schools received all five quarterly installments (target 70
        percent).2


2
  This indicator in the PAD was replaced with an indicator on learning environment during the
restructuring (to better measure outcome), while the original PDO Education indicator was made an
intermediate outcome indicator, since it concerned output.


                                                   17
      99.5 percent of creditors party to the amended settlement received the full
       payment (target 95 percent).
      1.3 million people in urban areas provided with access to all-season roads within a
       500 meter range under the project (target 800,000).
      216,000 people in urban areas covered by the project had access to improved
       water sources (target 239,000, baseline 89,000). This corresponds to 127,000
       additional people (target 150,000, baseline 0).
      65 percent of children under 5 years old slept under bed nets in Kinshasa (target
       60 percent).

62.     The Education and Debt Components were mentioned in the PAD as contributing
to achievement of the first sub-objective of the PDO, as measured through the indicator
for each component. These targets were fully achieved. The three other components
(Roads, Water, and Malaria) were designed to contribute to the second sub-objective of
the PDO. The rehabilitation needs targeted by the project were fully addressed, as
measured by the increased access to roads while the social needs were almost fully met,
with the project surpassing the target for usage of ITNs while achieving the target for
access to water at 90 percent, which is a minor shortcoming.

63.     The project contributed to meeting social needs in the education sector and to an
increase in enrollments. Between 2008 and 2010 the number of students registered across
the system grew from 13.5 million to 14.6 million. In 2010, gross enrollment rates
reached 94 percent in primary education. The gradual introduction of a fee-free policy for
primary education starting in September 2010 has further strengthened this positive trend
in access, specifically for children from poorer households. It is not possible to establish
an exact ratio of reduction of schools fees paid by parents due to EUSRP, but the
beneficiary satisfaction survey found that in 56 percent of schools, fees to be paid by
parents had been reduced or eliminated, although in 75 percent of schools, parents
continue to pay some sort of contribution. The novelty of the design meant directing
funds towards the level that has the most direct impact on the quality of the learning and
teaching environment (the schools) and eventually the quality of education, and have also
helped develop accountability and governance in the functioning of the schools (through
accounting of use of funds, reporting, involvement of school management committees,
parents association). The implementation of these activities included the establishment of
reliable financial flows, the design of operations manuals and reporting mechanisms in
line with the deconcentrated/decentralized approach of the IEP. These initiatives have
encouraged the government to commence financing of the operating costs of some
schools and administrative offices utilizing domestic (non-donor) resources.

64.    The contribution of the Domestic Debt Settlement component to outcome is
conclusive as to the impact on creditors, which is testified by the 2009 impact study and
2013 follow-up. According to the 2009 survey, 86 percent of companies were satisfied
with the settlement, a number which is confirmed by the UCoP follow-up survey in 2013.
According to the impact assessment, the main benefits come from the companies having
reduced their liabilities, some have paid suppliers, and some have succeeded in obtaining
new bank credits for investment. The component objective of injecting resources likely to


                                            18
increase the available working capital for private sector activities was thus achieved. A
total of 95 percent of companies benefiting from debt settlement are still active in 2013.
However, the surveys do not support the achievement of the component objective of
improving the relationship between the government and its suppliers. Due to the high
discount rate negotiated, most suppliers did not find that the government had become a
more reliable partner.

65.     Some of the most urgent rehabilitation needs in the road sector in Kinshasa were
met through the reconstruction of 40 kilometers of roads. The component was fully
implemented as designed. The choice of sections was in line with the objective of
targeting the most inaccessible neighborhoods. According to the beneficiary satisfaction
survey (summarized in Annex 5), the roads resulted in an increase in the percentage of
people in the beneficiary areas having easy access to their house by motorized transport
from 47 percent before the project to 98 percent after the project. Time to access public
transport was reduced by 15 minutes and 61 percent of respondents found that the project
contributed to creating new economic opportunities. In terms of stagnant water in the
concessions (a main breeding ground for mosquitoes), the respondents reported a
reduction from 43 percent before the project to 20 percent after the project.

66.     In the water sector, the project led to an increase of the production and
distribution capacity by 12,000 cubic meters per day, and resulted in 216,000 people
having access (127,000 additional beneficiaries), a minor shortfall compared to the
239,000 total people with access (150,000 additional beneficiaries). With further planned
expansions to the network and full use of the additional production capacity, 290,000
persons (201,000 additional) will benefit from access to water, with 200,000 beneficiaries
in the southern neighborhoods of Kinshasa where water service was previously
insufficient (either no water or only sporadic access) and 90,000 in Mont Ngafula, where
there was no network at all before the project. A derived benefit was a 12 percent
increase in school enrollment rates of girls in beneficiary neighborhoods, due to reduced
time spent to get water. Reduction in the price of water was another benefit, since water
used to be about FC100-200 for a container of 25 liters, so the reduction to FC50 paid at
the water standpost is a clear benefit.

67.     Regarding social needs for protection against malaria, the distribution of 2 million
ITNs in Kinshasa led to increased coverage and usage. Before the project, the proportion
of under 5 year olds sleeping under ITNs was 32 percent. The project aimed for 60
percent usage and according to the post-distribution survey usage reached 65 percent
corresponding to about 1 million under 5-year olds now sleeping under ITNs. The
coverage level is 79 percent (baseline not available) while the usage is 83 percent for
pregnant women (baseline not available). More importantly, the available data allows us
to confirm that malaria prevalence in under 5 year olds in Kinshasa decreased from 18.6
percent pre-distribution to 13.2 percent post-distribution. This is highly satisfactory.

68.    The intermediate outcome indicators confirm a satisfactory rating of PDO
achievement. Before restructuring, it was expected that 70 percent of schools should
receive all five installments. The project paid all installments (total of US$39.46 million)



                                            19
to 26,141 schools out of 26,248 eligible schools (99 percent), which was a highly
satisfactory result given the complex nature of the payments system and the difficulties
getting the component up and running. Although this is a measure of output, the fact that
77 percent of schools receiving transfers improved their learning environment supports a
satisfactory evaluation (average of the beneficiary satisfaction survey and economic
study, which found 79 and 75 percent of schools had improved their learning
environment). The output targets for debt settlement, roads and ITN distribution were
fully achieved. For the Water Component, slightly more standposts were constructed than
expected, while the target for individual connections was missed. The latter should have
been adjusted during restructuring.

69.      The activities financed by EURSP did indeed help create an environment in which
reforms could be sustained, as expected in the PAD. Section 3.1 demonstrates how the
transition to development programs with a longer term focus was facilitated by the
EUSRP, with institutional reforms now taking place in the education sector (increased
sector funding and improved expenditure payments as basis for fee-free education), road
sector (with OVD gradually improving road maintenance based on funds from the
FONER), and water sectors (with a performance contract with a private sector operator
being implemented to improve REGIDESO management). In the health sector, the
activities to combat malaria continue based on the activities implemented by EUSRP.
Although the EUSRP did not by itself prevent political and economic regression (which
was far beyond the means), it did contribute to this objective by providing the benefits
expected. There was no relapse into violence in Kinshasa, which the project contributed
to by providing tangible and real benefits to the population.

After Restructuring
70.    The achievement of PDO after restructuring is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
revised PDO was to respond to urgent challenges by: (i) supporting domestic debt
settlement; and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in targeted areas.
The PDO indicators and targets for the Debt, Roads and Water components did not
change. The results for the indicators for the formally revised PDO are:

      77 percent of schools receiving payments improved their learning environment
       (target 75 percent).
      99.5 percent of creditors party to the amended settlement received the full
       payment (target 95 percent).
      1.3 million people in urban areas were provided with access to all-season roads
       within a 500 meter range under the project (target 800,000).
      216,000 people in urban areas covered by the project had access to improved
       water sources (target 239,000). This corresponds to 127,000 additional people
       (target 150,000).
      91 percent of children under 5 years old sleep under bed nets in Bandundu
       Province (target 80 percent).
      The number of total beneficiaries of the project was 20.3 million (target 21.6
       million).



                                           20
71.    The achievement of the PDO sub-objective on domestic debt settlement as
measured by the indicator is substantial. The qualitative aspects are presented above
(before restructuring).

72.     The achievement of the PDO sub-objective on addressing urgent rehabilitation
and social needs in targeted areas was modest to high. The Education and Malaria
Components contributed to addressing social needs. For the Education Component, the
PDO indicator was fully achieved, but this hides the fact that for secondary schools the
outcome would have been more substantial if the AF had been disbursed. Only 65
percent of eligible schools received all installments, as only the primary schools benefited
fully as foreseen. This is a modest achievement.

73.     The social needs targeted by the Malaria Component in Bandundu were fully met
with the distribution of 2.8 million ITNs. This led to an increase of ITN coverage and
usage which surpassed expectations. Before the project, the proportion of under 5 year
olds sleeping under ITNs was 6 percent. The project aimed for 80 percent coverage and
according to the post-distribution survey reached 91 percent, corresponding to 1.2 million
under 5-year olds now sleeping under ITNs. The coverage level is 95 percent (against 46
percent before) while usage is 94 percent for pregnant women (against 31 percent
before). As in Kinshasa, the available data allows us to confirm that malaria prevalence in
under 5 year olds in Kinshasa decreased; from 19.6 percent pre-distribution to 5.4 percent
post-distribution. This is highly satisfactory.

74.     The Roads and Water Components contributed to achieving the rehabilitation part
of the second sub-PDO and the results are substantial. The evaluation is presented in the
section on achievement of PDO before restructuring, with only minor shortcomings on
the number of beneficiaries from the Water Component.

75.     The total number of beneficiaries reached 94 percent of the expected target. The
shortfall was mainly due to a more stringent method used for the ICR by which double
counting was reduced (i.e. beneficiaries benefiting from several components counted only
once for the ICR). Therefore the slight shortfall is a minor shortcoming.




                                            21
Split evaluation
 Table 1: Overall outcome evaluation weighted against original and restructured PDO and
                                        indicators.
                          Against original PDO Against restructured          Overall
                                                         PDO
                                                      Moderately
Rating                         Satisfactory
                                                      Satisfactory
Rating Value3 (a)                    5                      4
Weight (% disbursed
before and after                  64.2%                 35.8%                 100%
restructuring) (b)
Weighted value (a*b)               3.21                   1.43                 4.64
Final Rating (rounded)                                                     Satisfactory


76.     The split evaluation results in a satisfactory rating of achievement of PDO. This
overall satisfactory rating is justified by the full achievement of all PDO indicators before
the restructuring, with the exception of the indicator on access to water, which was
achieved 90 percent, a minor shortcoming. The PDO indicators after the restructuring
were also almost fully achieved, except the retained indicator on access to water and the
total number of beneficiaries, which was achieved at 94 percent, again a minor
shortcoming. The only moderate shortcoming was after the restructuring, when the
Education AF did not disburse, but this did not impact the achievement of the PDO
indicator for the Education Component. The results against intermediate results indicators
generally support a satisfactory rating, which is further reinforced by the positive impacts
on beneficiaries, demonstrated by the beneficiary satisfaction survey and surveys carried
out for the economic analysis (see Section 3.3 below and Annex 3).

3.3 Efficiency

77.     Efficiency is rated substantial. No economic analysis was carried out at appraisal
due to the emergency nature of the project. For the ICR, ex-post cost-benefit analysis was
carried out for Components 1 (Education), 3 (Roads), 4 (Water) and 5 (Malaria). In each
case, available data was complemented by questionnaire surveys serving to quantify
benefits and cross-checked with relevant authorities and Bank specialists for realism.
Conservative estimates were used for the benefit streams. Multi-criteria analysis was
carried out for Component 2 (Domestic Debt Settlement) based on a component
completion survey carried out in 2009 and a follow-up survey in 2013. For Component 6
(Project Management) efficiency considerations are based on service standards and
comparable alternative implementation arrangements. The full analysis, including
assumptions, is presented in Annex 3.




3
    On a rating scale from 1 to 6 with 1 being highly unsatisfactory, 6 being highly satisfactory.




                                                       22
78.     The economic efficiency is rated substantial to high for all evaluated components,
as presented in the table below. The fact that ERRs are so high for an emergency project,
which did not in general select investments based on economic criteria, is very positive.
The ERR for the Education Component of 22.6 percent is fully in line with the
importance placed in the sector and reinforces the evaluation of achievement of PDO,
since the result of the economic analysis is mainly attributable to improved learning
environment. The Road Component ERR of 74.3 percent is proof that both the first
tranche (based on pre-existing studies) and the second tranche (which relied in part on
economic criteria for selection) deliver substantial economic benefits. For the Water
Component, in spite of the project not fully reaching the targeted number of beneficiaries,
the fact that the ERR is substantial supports a positive evaluation of the component
achievements in terms of meeting basic needs. Finally, the Malaria Component has very
high ERR; this shows that the economic burden from the malaria scourge on mostly poor
families can be relieved in a way that is highly profitable for society to invest in. The
high ERRs for this component are comparable with findings from economic studies of
ITN distribution elsewhere.

               Table 2: Result of economic analysis of investments.
                              (*) Weighted average.
Component         Investment Cost Percentage of            ERR        NPV (US$     Efficiency
                    (US$ million)      total project                   million )     rating
                                           cost
1: Education             41.1             20.0%            22.6%         2.1       Substantial
                                                                (*)
3: Roads                 49.7             24.2%         74.3%          116.82         High
4: Water                 25.9             12.6%           19.5%          11.7      Substantial
                       11.2 (K)                         313% (K)       34.9 (K)
5: Malaria                                14.7%                                       High
                       19.1 (B)                         144% (B)       27.5 (B)

79.     The multi-criteria analysis of Component 2 (Domestic Debt Settlement, US$49.2
million, 23.9% of total cost) shows that the project was efficient in reaching the targeted
companies, and that investments had overall positive economic impact. The efficiency of
project management arrangements was substantial. The time taken to implement the
project counts against the efficiency rating, since especially the Road and Water
Components experienced delays. However, with economic efficiency being the main
factor and cost-benefit evaluation showing substantial to high efficiency, the overall
efficiency rating is substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

80.    The overall outcome is rated satisfactory based on the combined evaluation of
substantial relevance, substantial efficacy and substantial efficiency.




                                               23
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

81.     The PDO indicator on percentage of female beneficiaries compared to total
beneficiaries is based on the national average for the female part of the population; a
precise quantitative estimation of the gender impact of the whole project is not possible
based on available data. It is possible however to make some general qualitative
statements about the project’s impact on gender aspects for the Education, Water, and
Malaria Components. Regarding Component 1 (Education), the project did contribute to
reducing school fees, which is a known impediment to enrolling especially girls in
schools and has the potential to contribute to improved gender parity in education.
Regarding Component 4 (Water) the task of fetching water falls mostly on the female
members of households (girls), and the project has demonstrated that girls benefited more
though increased school enrollment rates in beneficiary neighborhoods. Fighting malaria
(Component 5) also benefits women more, as pregnant women are especially vulnerable
and more pregnant women are now sleeping under ITNs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

82.     The involved ministries and agencies (especially SECOPE, OVD and
REGIDESO) gained operational knowledge from hands-on training by participating to
updating/elaboration of manuals, technical studies, and preparation of bidding documents
as well as from supervising works implementation. By providing some basic equipment
to these agencies and associating their staff to component design and implementation as
well as works supervision and environmental monitoring during the implementation of
EUSRP, their capacity has been reinforced to manage similar investments in the future.
Both OVD and REGIDESO now have improved their ability to monitor social and
environmental impacts of projects through their participation to implementation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

83.      The Domestic Debt Settlement Component contributed to reducing the
government’s debt stock. Due to progress made in the implementation of sound economic
policies and structural reforms supported by the Bank and IMF, the DRC reached the
Highly Indebted Poor Country completion point in July 2010 and received a debt
cancellation of US$12.3 billion. Further, the project associated the National Commission
for Road Safety to the elaboration of specifications for horizontal and vertical signage to
improve road safety. The heads of households that received compensation for
resettlement received training on how to use their compensation for income-generation
activities, principally in the areas of commerce, vegetable gardening, carpentry, and
beauty treatment. A follow-up survey 120 days after the reinstallation found that all
beneficiaries were satisfied with the accompanying measures.




                                            24
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

84.     A beneficiary satisfaction survey was carried out on components 1 (Education), 3
(Roads), 4 (Water) and 5 (Malaria). The survey concluded that overall the majority of
beneficiaries were satisfied with the project. Satisfaction by component is presented in
the table below. A full summary of the survey results can be found in Annex 5 along with
a discussion of the findings.

                         Table 3: Result of beneficiary satisfaction survey.
          Component           Number of beneficiaries          Percentage of beneficiaries
                                                                     overall satisfied
          1: Education              13.4 million                          81%
          3: Roads                   1.3 million                          90%
          4: Water              127,000 (additional)                      88%
          5: Malaria                 4.8 million                          98%


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

85.    The risk that future benefit streams from the project will not be maintained is
assessed based on the risk to each component of the restructured PDO. Based on the
evaluation below, with substantial to high risk, the overall risk is assessed as substantial.

Component 1: Education – Substantial
86.     The objective of making primary education fee-free and the government’s budget
allocations vouches well for the future of the component outcomes, but is not in itself a
sufficient guarantee that payment of operating expenditures will be made due to severe
overall budget constraints. Therefore, in spite of positive developments, the risk is rated
substantial.

Component 2: Domestic Debt Settlement – Substantial to High
87.     Continuation of the stream of benefits from this component is largely assured by
the reinvestment of funds by beneficiary firms. The risk relates to the government’s
overall budget situation, which is leading the government to incur new arrears.

Component 3: Roads - Substantial
88.    Maintenance of roads is improving in the DRC, with substantial increases of
annual FONER payments since its inception in 2009. Road sweeping crews are in place
in Kinshasa and the city is financing regular cleaning of drainage canals. However, these
are new evolutions and it will take time to significantly reverse historic trends of lack of
maintenance.

Component 4: Water – Substantial
89.    Maintaining benefits and maximizing returns to investments depend on adequate
maintenance. The financial situation of REGIDESO remains precarious and as recently as
March 2012 the utility was unable to finance chemicals for production. The EUSRP was


                                                   25
an emergency project and was not designed to address institutional issues; performance
improvements of REGIDESO are supported under the UWSP and are slowly
materializing. The government is accumulating arrears to REGIDESO, which could lead
to undermining the utility company’s financial situation.

Component 5: Malaria – substantial
90.      Benefits from the distribution under the EUSRP have already fully materialized.
Distribution will likely continue as the government has budgeted US$2.5 million for
malaria-related activities. This is below estimated financing needs (about US$90 million
per year) but high importance is given to ITN distribution by both government and
donors and the second cycle of mass-distribution for Kinshasa is ongoing, 5 years after
the first distribution.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

91.     The Bank delivered a multifaceted response to the urgent needs in a very tight
timeframe, building on emerging lessons from ongoing projects and incorporating a
transition to post-project sector operations. The project was prepared in less than four
months as an emergency operation. The rationale for Bank involvement was well-
developed and the needs were well-identified, building on the experience of ongoing
operations and existing studies. The M&E framework was developed with KPIs and
targets, although the presentation in the PAD was not adequate. The Bank should have
been more conservative in estimating implementation timeframe and also more candid
about the risk from the novelty and scope of the education component, which justify a
Moderately Satisfactory rating.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

92.    Overall, the Bank provided good continuity both in team composition throughout
the implementation period and in regular interactions with the client, carrying out regular
supervision missions during the entire project implementation, complemented by
missions of technical experts, as well as audio and video conferences arranged as
necessary. The Task Team Leader was based in the region close to the project provided
continuous support to the client and helped move the project forward in the very difficult
environment. Sector experts participated regularly to supervision missions.

93.    The Bank was responsive during implementation, agreeing to pay the RAP, which
however took too long to determine, and agreeing to provide additional financing for the
two components likely to benefit from being scaled up. The scaled-up project was
opportune to increase development impact. The Bank actively followed up on the
implementation issues for the Education AF, holding meetings with UCoP and SECOPE


                                            26
and also drew the attention of the government to the issue in each mission aide-memoire
starting in October 2011. In February 2013 the Bank requested the Borrower to cancel the
financing when it became apparent that the component could not be implemented. The
Bank could have been more actively engaged in assuring quality of M&E data for the
Water Component and in updating indicator targets during the AF restructuring of the
results framework, but these are minor shortcomings and the supervision rating is
Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

94.    Since the overall outcome rating for the project is Satisfactory this pulls the
average of the Bank performance at entry and during supervision up.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

95.     The government was actively involved in project preparation and agreed to use
existing project structures for the EUSRP (UCoP), supplemented with UNOPS and
relying on specialized agencies for component implementation and safeguards. The inter-
ministerial committee met regularly, but the participation of members was irregular. The
government did not timely address the issue of audit for the Education AF and did not
respond to the Bank’s letter regarding cancellation of the undisbursed Education AF. It
also took until after the end of the grace period before the government reimbursed the
balance of the Designated Account.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Unité de Coordination des Projets (UCoP)
96.     Moderately Satisfactory. UCoP assured implementation with a few moderate
shortcomings. From the outset of the project, UCoP followed up actively on the delays
for studies for the Road and Water Components; the agency was not to blame for delays
due to the unforeseen complexity of updates of the studies. Throughout the project, UCoP
adequately assured completion of works financed by the project. UCoP was able to limit
its operating costs to 5 percent of total project funds, which is the generally accepted
norm. The shortcomings relate to the implementing agency being late in developing the
safeguards studies, a case of ineligible expenditures and M&E. The changes to the length
of water network to be constructed should have been formalized in amendments to the
contracts, but was only recorded in minutes of site meetings. This would have allowed
more accurate monitoring of expected results of the project and necessary adjustment to
M&E framework. UCoP was also not consistently strong on M&E methodology and the
ICR mission had to expend considerable effort to get the final and reliable data for the
ICR.



                                            27
UNOPS
97.     Moderately Satisfactory. UNOPS assured the procurement of ITNs for Kinshasa,
and of works for Components 3 (Roads) and 4 (Water) in a generally satisfactory manner,
although it took longer than expected. Costs were maintained within the appraised
envelopes. The agency should have been more careful to check the capacity of the
contractor for one lot of the second tranche of road works, since this was the contractor’s
first contract in the DRC. Later, due to non-performance of this contractor, part of the
works had to be reattributed to the winner of the other lot for tranche two, which resulted
in works delays.

UNICEF
98.     Moderately Satisfactory. UNICEF implemented the Malaria component fully
satisfactorily in Bandundu. The ITNs were purchased and distributed as expected and
communication campaigns on the use were adequate. UNICEF was excessively slow to
justify expenditures under the Malaria AF, which was only done after the grace period
(on October 22, 2013). Since the Designated Account could not be replenished without
the justification, the Education AF could not be disbursed (see Section 2.2).

SECOPE
99.     Moderately Unsatisfactory. SECOPE contributed to implementing the Education
Component by participating to all parts of the payment cycle. The agency had to adapt to
the novel approach of channeling funds to schools regularly and based on clear
procedures, which the agency gradually did. However, each audit and transfer took
longer than expected, not least due to the need to update the manual each time. The fact
that the Education AF was not disbursed (less than 10 percent of project funds) was in
large part due to the failure of SECOPE to justify expenditures in a reasonable timeframe.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

100. The overall borrower performance rating is justified by the shortcomings noted on
the performance of the government implementing agencies, ranging from Moderately
Unsatisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory. Implementation Progress was rated
Moderately Satisfactory in the last three ISRs. The project was implemented with a
satisfactory result and this pulls the rating of Overall Borrower Performance up to
Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

101. An emergency operation should be prepared with a view to balancing short-
and medium-term results and transition to regular operations. Sector agencies in charge
of providing the services the project is financing should be engaged from the outset and
receive capacity building so that they can take over and manage the services more
effectively over time after the emergency phase is over. The Bank successfully developed
a CAS to enable preparation of sector projects in each sector supported by the EUSRP
well before the project closed. This means that even though the risks remain substantial
in the continuing volatile situation in the DRC, the prospects of maintaining or increasing


                                            28
the flow of benefits are significantly increased, as in the case of the Water Component,
for example, where the UWSP will take over with household connections where the
EUSRP left off.

102. Multi-sectoral operations are critical to address emergency situations.
Considering the diverse nature of emergency needs that cannot be addressed by a series
of parallel sector operations, multi-sectoral projects can become the instrument of choice
as they address the issues related to transaction costs and greater risks of coordination
failures. Whereas multi-sectoral operations are complex by definition, they have a better
chance to deliver good results if the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) strong
coordination, (b) maximum simplicity, (c) design for minimum resettlement (especially if
the government has no funds to pay for this), and (d) relying on procurement agents to
mitigate procurement bottlenecks that arise from launching several different components
at once.

103. Under emergency situations, financing operating costs of schools in a
transparent manner offers a good chance to increase enrollment rates and educational
outcomes for children from poorer families. Moreover, this type of operation helps
reduce the financial contributions by parents and is likely to contribute to boosting girls’
attendance. For the funding to be effective in achieving these results, transparency (e.g.
posting of amounts and use of funds, auditing their use), targeted awareness-raising,
decentralized decision-making and involvement of parents are critical. If these conditions
are fulfilled, the approach can succeed as a reengagement strategy in a fragile state.

104. A strong communications strategy should be in place to counter
misinformation, which can otherwise quickly put the project at risk and jeopardize
outcomes. Misinformation flows freely as was seen in the case of ITN distribution, and
for this reason strong prior awareness-raising should be implemented. In the longer term,
having good baselines and impact evaluations can be used to communicate on benefits
and improve correct usage of project outputs to foster the adhesion of the beneficiary
population to project outputs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

105. The draft ICR was shared with UCoP, who in their comments (Annex 7(b)) found
that the evaluation of Borrower performance is too unfavorable and that the Borrower
performance should be rated Satisfactory. The Bank has maintained the ratings based on
the evidence of shortcomings presented in the ICR and maintains a Moderately
Satisfactory rating for overall Borrower performance.

(b) Cofinanciers

106.   There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders


                                            29
107.   There were no other partners or stakeholders.




                                           30
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal      Additional                  Percentage of
                                                                  Actual
           Components              Estimate       Financing                    Appraisal+
                                                               (US$ millions)
                                 (US$ millions) (US$ millions)                     AF
 1: Education                         45.00           19.50          41.14         63.8%
 2: Domestic Debt Settlement          50.00            0.00          49.21         98.4%
 3: Roads                             42.00            0.00          49.74        118.4%
 4: Water                             25.00            0.00          25.99        104.0%
 5: Malaria                           13.00           19.50          30.25         93.1%
 6: Project management                 5.00            1.00           9.29        154.5%
             Total Baseline Cost     180.00          220.00         205.60         93.5%
Physical and Price Contingencies       0.00            0.00           0.00          0.0%
             Total Project Costs     180.00          220.00         205.60         93.5%
Front-end fee PPF                      0.00            0.00           0.00          0.0%
      Total Financing Required       180.00          220.00         205.60         93.5%

(b) Financing
                                  Appraisal Estimate        Actual            Percentage of
        Source of Funds
                                    (US$ millions)       (US$ millions)        Appraisal
Borrower                                0.00                  0.00                0.00%
IDA Grant                             180.00                185.51             114.22%
IDA Grant, Crisis Response
Window                                  40.00                   20.09            50.22%

(c) Disbursement rates at restructuring of PDO on February 2, 2011

                               Disbursement           Final
                                as of Feb 2,      disbursement          % disbursed at
         Components
                                    2011          (US$ millions)        restructuring
                               (US$ millions)
1: Education                         40.13              41.14               97.5%
2: Domestic Debt Settlement          49.11              49.21               99.8%
3: Roads                             20.44              49.74               41.1%
4: Water                              6.22              25.99               23.9%
5: Malaria                           11.16              30.25               36.9%
6: Project management                 4.92               9.29               53.0%
           Total Baseline Cost      131.99             205.60               64.2%
Physical & Price Contingencies        0.00               0.00                 0.00
           Total Project Costs      131.99             205.60               64.2%
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00               0.00                 0.00
    Total Financing Required        131.99             205.60               64.2%

(d) Reallocation of the original Grant at the April 25, 2012 restructuring (US$ equivalents
of SDR allocations) (*)


                                             31
                                                Appraisal Estimate Reallocated amount
                Components
                                                (US$/SDR millions) (US$/SDR millions)
 1: Education (a)                                    45.00 / 29.98        40.56 / 27.04
 2: Domestic Debt Settlement (b)                     50.00 / 33.31        45.78 / 30.52
 3: Roads                                            42.00 / 28.00        47.91 / 31.94
 4: Water                                            25.00 / 16.70        27.11 / 18.07
 5: Malaria                                           13.00 / 8.68         11.22 / 7.48
 6: Project management                                 5.00 / 3.33          7.43 / 4.95
                          Total Baseline Cost       180.00 / 120.00      180.00 / 120.00
Physical and Price Contingencies                          0.00                 0.00
                         Total Project Costs        180.00 / 120.00      180.00 / 120.00
Front-end fee PPF                                         0.00                 0.00
                   Total Financing Required         180.00 / 120.00      180.00 / 120.00
(*) Differences between Dollar amounts in table (a) and (d) are due to currency fluctuations, since
allocations are in SDR, while disbursements are made and recorded in US$.
(a) The reduction of the original funding for the Education Component was due to lower than
expected implementation cost, and did not result from reduced payments to schools.
(b) The reduction of the original funding for the Debt Component was principally due to lower
than expected implementation cost, and did not result from reduced payments to creditors, apart
from two creditors that refused to accept the negotiated settlement.




                                                32
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Support to education recovery through finance of select recurrent
expenditures.

1.       The component funded the following activities:

        Payment of operating expenditures to 26,141 schools (US$39.2 million).
        Monitoring, awareness-raising campaigns.
        Logistical support to SECOPE.
        Payment manual and updates to the manual.
        Audits of payment to schools.

Component 2: Completion of the domestic debt settlement.

2.       The component funded the following activities:

        Settlement of debt (2006 and 2007 tranches; US$48.7 million).
        Validation of list of creditors.
        Fee to the payment bank (Banque Commerciale du Congo).
        Audits of payments.
        Impact evaluation 2009.

Component 3: Rehabilitation of priority urban roads in Kinshasa.

3.       The component funded the following works and activities:

        Rehabilitation of 40.2 kilometers of urban road.
        Update of existing technical studies and elaboration of bidding documents (first
         tranche).
        Elaboration of new technical studies and elaboration of bidding documents
         (second tranche).
        Works supervision.
        Assistance to OVD for monitoring component implementation.

Component 4: Water and Sanitation in peri-urban areas of Kinshasa.

4.       The component funded the following works and activities:

        Update of technical studies and elaboration of bidding documents.
        Two reservoirs of 12,000 and 600 cubic meters.
        Construction and equipping of water catchment in the Lukaya River.
        Construction of drying beds for the Lykaya water treatment plant.
        Construction and equipping of the pumping station in Mont Ngafula and
         connecting to the electricity grid.



                                            33
        Construction of water network: 25.1 kilometers of primary network, 55.8
         kilometers of secondary network.
        Construction of 86 water standposts and 1,088 individual connections.
        Purchase of 5,000 water meters.
        Works supervision.
        Information, education and communication campaigns and support to
         management of water standposts.
        Assistance to REGIDESO for monitoring component implementation.

5.      The following additional works were completed due to the savings related to
reduction of the length of the pipes necessary to cover the beneficiary neighborhoods and
cost savings on other components that were reallocated to Component 4:

        Construction of two settling tanks at the Lukaya water treatment plant.
        Purchase of emergency spare parts for the treatment plant.
        Asphalting of the road to the 12,000 cubic meter reservoir.

Component 5: Malaria reduction and prevention.

6.       The component funded the following works and activities:

        Distribution of 2 million ITNs in Kinshasa.
        Distribution of 2.8 million ITNs in Bandundu Province.
        Communications campaign and an impact evaluation in Kinshasa.
        Communications campaign and an impact evaluation in Bandundu Province.

Component 6: Project management.

7.       This component financed:

        Operating expenditures of UCoP.
        Monitoring and evaluation.
        Procurement agent (UNOPS).
        Socio-environmental studies and monitoring and attenuation of impacts through
         technical assistance (Sofreco).
        Follow-up impact evaluation of the Debt Component in 2013.
        Audits.
        Cost-benefit studies for the Education, Water, and Malaria Components.
        Beneficiary satisfaction survey.




                                             34
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      An economic analysis was not mandated at appraisal due to the emergency nature
of the project, processed under OP8.00 Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies. For
the ICR, cost-benefit analysis was carried out on those investments for which the direct
benefits are both quantifiable and relevant for the purpose of this analysis. Therefore, a
full ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out on Components 1 (Education), 3
(Roads), 4 (Water), and 5 (Malaria). In each case, conservative estimates of benefits were
used. For Component 2 (Domestic Debt Settlement) the direct benefits are unquantifiable
and for this reason a multi-criteria analysis was carried out. For project implementation
and project management arrangements, the analysis considers service standards and
aspects of design and implementation that affected efficiency.

Cost-benefit analysis of Component 1: Support to education recovery through
finance of select recurrent expenditures (US$41.14 million, 20.0% of total project
cost)

2.      This component financed select recurrent, non-salary expenditures for primary
and secondary schools throughout the country. The original component was completed,
but the AF was not disbursed due to the factors described in the main text of the ICR
(Section 2.2). Following the implementation of the component, the operating
expenditures were expected to be financed by the government’s own resources, possibly
with support from donor resources. The component was expected to test and launch an
effort that would eventually result in a reduction of school fees paid by the parents. An
estimated 13,350,000 pupils in about 26,000 primary and secondary schools benefited
from the payment of operating expenditure.

3.      A study was carried out for the ICR to quantify benefits and evaluate economic
rates of return, based on a questionnaire survey of school administrators, teachers, parents,
and pupils. In total, 3,420 respondents were selected, of which 270 pupils, 810 parents of
pupils in primary school, 540 parents of pupils in secondary schools, 900 school
managers (headmasters, directors and advisors, 150 per educational province), and 900
teachers (also 150 per educational province). In each case, the respondents were chosen
from 75 schools selected in each of 6 provinces sampled proportionate to population size
in the education province (450 schools total), with second degree selection carried out
based on random selection of sub-divisions, and schools selected randomly from a list.
Interviews were carried out based on a standard questionnaire to collect data on school
enrollment, pass rates, gender parity, expected earnings against number of years of
schooling, and impact on household expenditure on education. The results were cross-
checked and verified for realism with SECOPE.

4.     The advantages were quantified based on improved educational outcome,
expected life earnings, and economic benefits from alternative use of saved school fees:




                                            35
      Advantages from improved educational outcome: Increased primary and
       secondary completion rates multiplied by effective employment frequency,
       multiplied by differential annual earnings.
      Advantages from saved school fees: Direct savings plus earnings from investment
       of savings in income-generating activities (in proportion to the percent of
       households making such investments and based on average additional revenue
       from such investment).

5.      The result of the cost-benefit analysis show an ERR of 22.6 percent and Net
Present Value (NPV) of US$2.1 million for an investment of US$41.1 million. The
payment of operating expenditure by the government on own resources is being phased in
on a level comparable with what was paid by the EUSRP. For 2013 the government has
allocated an amount of US$40 million to pay monthly operating expenditures of about
US$50 per primary school, plus an amount for each level of administration. These
payments are made based on the manuals prepared on EUSRP funding. For primary
schools, the Education Sector Reform Support Project paid some operating expenditures
and the continuation of payment of operation expenditures on government funds means
the benefits demonstrated by the economic analysis for the ICR are likely to continue, or
even increase. The EUSRP paid a total of US$41 million over several years, whereas the
government will pay this amount per year, with monthly installments. Therefore the
benefits from improved educational outcomes and reduction in school fees paid by
parents are likely to continue and even increase after the EUSRP.

Multi-criteria analysis of Component 2: Completion of the domestic debt settlement
(US$49.21 million, 23.9% of total project cost)

6.       This component financed the completion of a Bank-supported process for settling
the debt accrued by the government to its domestic suppliers during the years of war and
instability. This was expected to contribute to improving the investment climate and to
injecting resources likely to increase the available working capital for private sector
activities, as well as to improve the relationship between the government and its suppliers
and thus contribute to restoring an efficient and transparent public expenditure
environment. The US$49.21 million invested provided fresh capital to the creditor
enterprises.

7.      An overall economic rate of return cannot be calculated since the quantification of
benefits from investments of 377 enterprises would be too speculative based on the
available data. It is however reasonable to assume that the economic agents benefiting
from the component would be able to invest the proceeds of their settlements at or above
opportunity cost (estimated at 12 percent in the DRC), which would lead to positive NPV.
This argument is supported by the fact that 95 percent of enterprises are still active over 4
years after the settlement, and are thus likely operating with a financial surplus. The
component was designed to disburse quickly, and there was only minor delays compared
to appraisal estimates, which together with the level of satisfaction with the settlement (at
86 percent of companies), also support a substantial efficiency.




                                            36
Cost-benefit analysis of Component 3: Rehabilitation of priority urban roads in
Kinshasa (US$49.74 million, 24.2% of total project cost)

8.      This component financed heavy rehabilitation of about 40 km of access roads to
poor neighborhoods. The road sections in the initial program of works were determined
based on needs and the road sections in the second tranche lot were determined based on
criteria of needs and economic viability. The investments were expected to restore or
significantly improve accessibility by vehicle to poor neighborhoods with an estimated
800,000 direct beneficiaries. The total number actual of beneficiaries was estimated at 1.3
million.

9.       The road cost-benefit analysis considers scenarios “with” and “without” project to
determine net incremental costs and benefits of the road investments. This is based on
traffic counting along 25 sections of road out of a total of 30 rehabilitated (37.2 km out of
40.2 km).

10.     The net incremental benefits and actual costs of investment programs were
assessed. Costs used in the analysis include capital costs, maintenance costs, and
rehabilitation costs. Benefits of provision of urban services in general improved the
quality of life of the poorest residents of the targeted areas, as demonstrated by the
beneficiary satisfaction survey. The economic analysis is conservative, as rates of return
calculated for the project understate some of these social and environmental benefits.
However, some of the following socio-economic quantifiable and non-quantifiable
benefits are included in the overall evaluation of project outcomes (see main text,
Sections 3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and 3.5 Overarching
Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts).

      Improvement in the quality of life through improved physical living conditions
       and environmental management, and in some cases sidewalks which were not
       there before.
      Increased productivity and efficiency arising from reduced flooding and avoided
       flood damages to economic property.
      Increase in property value due to improved overall amenities.
      Enhanced investment climate due to improved service delivery.
      Improved health with reduction in waterborne disease and reduced medical costs.
      Enhanced local government capacity to fulfill their service delivery mandate.
      Reduction in accidents.
      Employment generation, market creation, promotion of increased private sector
       participation in the provision of services.

11.     The Roads Economic Decision (RED) Model was used for the economic analysis
of the roads financed by EUSRP. This model quantifies economic gains in terms of
reduced transport time and maintenance cost from improved transport infrastructure. The
EUSRP road investments have been assessed with an evaluation period limited to ten
years, which is relatively conservative for this type of analysis. Cash flows are discounted
using a discount rate of 12 percent. Economic unit costs (for acquisition, operation and


                                             37
maintenance of vehicles) for 2013 were used to calibrate the model. Ex-post traffic
counting was carried out by OVD and the model set up to run based on the speed of a
reference vehicle. In the absence of ex-ante traffic counting, for each road section it was
estimated that travel speed to get from point A to point B was 25 kilometers per hour
without the project and 40 kilometers per hour with the project. This is in reality a
conservative estimate, as many road sections were almost completely impassable before
the project and effective travel speeds from point A to point B would often have been
much lower by alternative routes, if at all possible in the case of completely closed roads.
The assumptions were verified with the OVD and World Bank transport specialists.

12.     The results of the economic analysis are presented below. All road sections are
economically justified, with ERR ranging from 6.9 percent to 190.7 percent and total
NPV of US$116.82 million from a total component investment of US$49.74 million. The
large span of ERRs is largely explained by the varied nature of the roads, some of which
were only in need of minor repairs of potholes, while others were completely
reconstructed and fitted with sidewalks (the economic benefit of which is not
incorporated into the economic analysis).

 Road section    Commune        Length        Cost          Cost/km       ERR         NPV
                                 (km)                     ($thousand)                 ($M)

Komoriko        Kintambo           0.788      1,407,123         1,786
Lukengu         Kintambo           0.830      1,225,567         1,477       56.4%       2.15
Bangala         Kintambo           0.200        252,073         1,260
Militant        Barumbu            3.666      6,309,843         1,721     101.1%       23.57
Ecole           Ngaliema           2.413      3,433,163         1,423      33.5%       15.58
Shaba Landu     Bumbu              4.193      7,067,627         1,686      66.8%       15.58
Assossa         Ngiringiri         2.392      2,338,546           978     117.9%       10.51
Ngiri Ngiri     Ngiringiri         0.988        862,019           872      98.9%        3.14
Mompono         Kalamu             1.601      2,320,229         1,449      60.7%        4.49
Zinhias         Limété             0.525        313,766           598      55.9%        0.54
Révolution      Limété             1.382        565,438           409      68.8%        1.30
Tropiques       Limété             0.913        371,959           407      40.2%        0.40
Mobutu          Masina             2.266        740,585           327     190.7%        5.77
Kimbanseke      Kimbanseke         4.366      5,641,792         1,292      79.0%       15.49
Lumière         Matete             1.675      2,876,015         1,717       6.9%       -0.46
Itaga           Barumbu            1.445      1,179,014           816      86.5%        3.63
Croix Rouge     Barumbu            1.620      1,262,650           779      83.5%        3.72
Ango Ango       Bandalungwa        0.972        415,685           428     106.0%        1.65
8 Décembre      Bandalungwa        0.537        385,760           718      31.5%        0.27
Bula            Bandalungwa        1.129        347,470           308     171.5%        2.40
Assolongo       Bandalungwa        1.380        779,425           565      69.6%        1.81
Stade           Kalamu             0.865        605,749           700
Permanence      Kalamu             0.972        803,439           827


                                            38
Mpozo         Kalamu              0.625         351,608         563     182.7%       2.61
Saidi         Kalamu              0.734         512,186         698      96.0%       1.80
Oshwe         Kalamu              0.627         455,647         727      34.6%       0.38
Boyange       Kalamu              0.230         198,311         862      26.4%       0.10
Ikelemba      Kalamu              0.129          74,249         576      66.8%       0.16
Badjoko       Kalamu              0.584         372,533         638      28.3%       0.22
Bonga         Kalamu              0.157       109,478           697
           TOTAL              40.20368     43,578,950         1,084    74.3% (*)   116.82
(*) Weighted average.

13.    Further underscoring the economic justification of the investments, we note that
the roads in the initial package of works, selected based on a demand-driven approach
and using socio-economic criteria, also turn out to be justified from a purely economic
point of view. In terms of cost-efficiency, the project surpassed the number of people
estimated to benefit from the component by 62.5 percent, as the beneficiary
neighborhoods were generally denser than estimated at appraisal.

Cost-benefit analysis of Component 4: Water and Sanitation in peri-urban areas of
Kinshasa (US$25.99 million, 12.6% of total project cost)

14.     This component financed the expansion of the distribution network from the
recently-rehabilitated water treatment plant of Lukaya (in the Western part of Kinshasa)
to poor neighborhoods. This was expected to provide access to potable water to
approximately 150,000 people who previously relied on improper sources.

15.    A household survey was carried out on 608 randomly selected and representative
households in the beneficiary area to quantify benefits. The results were cross-checked
and verified for realism with REGIDESO.

16.    The total cost of the component (production, storage, network, connections and
standposts) was used as cost. The project life-span was estimated at 25 years. The socio-
economic advantages of the component were:

      Reduced time to fetch water.
      Reduced cost to treat illness due to better access to water and better hygiene.
      Reduced morbidity and mortality.
      More regular access to water.
      Reduced school absence due to time spent fetching water and better educational
       outcome.
      Increased economic activity made possible by time and cost savings on provision
       of water.
      Employment generated from the management of standposts.

17.     For the economic analysis, only the reduced time to fetch water and lessened
health expenditures could be quantified based on the household survey. This provides for


                                           39
a conservative estimate of ERR, since the many other benefits are additional to the result
presented and thus contribute to higher ERR, although this exact contribution to ERR of
these benefits cannot be quantified. A “without project” situation was compared to a
“with project” situation. Average time spent daily for a household to fetch water was
about 1h34 minutes before the project, with an average household having to fetch 8 25
liter water bottles. This was reduced to on average 34 minutes with the project to fetch
the same amount of water. The hourly wage (cost to fetch water) was set at US$0.3,
based on a US$45 monthly salary. According to the survey and confirmed by numbers
from REGIDESO, about 45 percent of the population of the area benefited from reduced
time to get water. For the reduced cost to treat illnesses linked to hygiene, about 26
percent of households (numbers from REGIDESO), who did not have access to clean
water before, saw their expenditure drop on average by US$1.6 per month, according to
the survey.

18.     On top of these benefits, the economic analysis incorporated the financial net
benefit streams without and with the project in terms of additional income to REGIDESO
from standposts and rental of water meters. As production and sale of water is cost-
neutral to REGIDESO in Kinshasa (sales revenues correspond to operation and
maintenance cost - this is not so in other areas of the DRC), the net financial benefits of
increased production are estimated at zero.

19.   The result of the cost-benefit analysis show that for a total component cost of
US$25.99 million, the NPV is US$11.74 million and ERR is 19.5 percent.

Cost-benefit analysis of Component 5: Malaria reduction and prevention in
Kinshasa and Bandundu (US$30.25 million, 14.7 percent of total project cost)

20.     This component financed the distribution of about 4.8 million ITNs in Kinshasa
and the Bandundu Province, as a means of reducing malaria-related infant mortality. A
study was carried out for the ICR to evaluate economic rates of return, based on a
household survey. Two other studies were already available, establishing the pre- and
post-distribution campaign situation for morbidity and mortality in Kinshasa and
Bandundu, carried out by the Provincial Inspectorate of Health in Kinshasa and School of
Public Health in Kinshasa respectively.

21.     The household survey quantified benefits based on a survey of 1800 households
in Kinshasa and 1350 households in Bandundu, selected based on health zones, health
areas and households. Health zones were sampled based on cluster sampling
proportionate to population size to select 26 health zones (out of 35) in Kinshasa and 12
health zones (out of 52) in Bandundu. In each health zone, one health area was selected
randomly and finally 60 households were selected systematically from a list of
households. Interviews were carried out based on a standard questionnaire to collect data
on the effective life-span of an ITN, the treatment-cost per malaria case and the cost of
funerals. The results were cross-checked and verified for realism with the School of
Public Health.




                                            40
22.    The total cost of the component (ITNs, distribution, communication, and
administration) was used as cost. The advantages were quantified based on reduced
morbidity and mortality for under-5 year olds as:

       The savings on treatment from the number of cases avoided multiplied by the cost
        of treatment per case.
       The savings on funeral cost derived by the cost per funeral multiplied by the
        number of deaths avoided.
       The additional life earnings calculated as the average revenue per capita
        multiplied by the effective working life (from 15 to 60 years old) and the survival
        probability.

23.   The total beneficiary population was 6,310,723 in Kinshasa and 3,949,995 in
Bandundu.4 The under-5 population, for which benefits are quantified, is 1,514,574 in
Kinshasa and 1,046,750 in Bandundu. The benefits are calculated as follows:

       Prevalence in Kinshasa pre- and post-distribution: 18.6 percent vs. 13.2 percent
        (source: IPS).
       Prevalence in Bandundu pre- and post-distribution: 19.6 percent vs. 5.4 percent
        (source: ESP).
       Average useful life of an ITN of 2.5 years in Kinshasa and 1.4 years in Bandundu
        (source: survey for the ICR economic study).
       Treatment cost of a malaria case: US$41.8 in Kinshasa and US$26.4 in Bandundu
        (source: survey for the ICR economic study).
       Funeral cost: US$1,519 in Kinshasa and US$157 in Bandundu (source: survey for
        the ICR economic study).
       Average annual earnings: US$45 in Kinshasa and US$23 in Bandundu (Source:
        UNDP).

24.    The result of the cost-benefit analysis shows an undiscounted ERR of 313 percent
and NPV of US$34.9 million for an investment of US$11.2 million in Kinshasa. The
numbers for Bandundu are ERR of 144 percent and NPV of US$27.5 million for an
investment of US$19.1 million. In reality this is underestimated, as the ESP provided
estimated expenses of up to US$95 per case to treat malaria.

Efficiency analysis of Component 6: Project management (US$9.27 million, 4.5
percent of total project cost)

25.     Despite the difficult implementation environment, UCoP assured completion of
project activities. UCoP was able to limit its operating costs to 4.5 percent of total project


4
 The data comes from the ESP and IPS studies, and differ slightly from the estimated number of
beneficiaries of the project component. However, for the purposes of the economic study the cost and
benefit streams are evaluated based on the data available from the relevant health authorities.



                                                   41
funds, quite reasonable compared to the 5 percent normally accepted, especially
considering the fact that all supervision outside Kinshasa had to be done by plane. At
appraisal, no alternatives to implementation by a PIU existed, as the government
apparatus did not have the required capacity to implement projects. The service standard
by UCoP was generally satisfactory. Overall the efficiency of project management was
substantial.




                                          42
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
Names                    Title                             Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Xavier Devictor          Country Manager                   ECCPL Team Leader
Kaliope Azzi-Huck        Sr. Operations Officer            AFTEW
Laura Bailey             Country Manager                   EACGF
Arbi Ben Achour          Sr. Social Scientist              AFTSG
Franck Bousquet          Sector Manager                    MNSSD
Renee Desclaux           Sr. Finance Officer               AFCCM
Maya El-Azzazi           Sr. Country Program Assistant     ECCU5
Yvan Franusic            Consultant, Procurement           SARPS
Elysee Kiti              Program Assistant                 DECDG
                         Sr. Financial Management
Jean Charles Kra                                           AFTFM
                         Specialist
Pierre Morin             Sr. Procurement Specialist        AFTPM
Patrick Mullen           Health Specialist                 SASHN
Susan Opper              Sr. Education Specialist          AFTHE
Isabelle Paris           Sr. Environmental Specialist      CESI3
Jeff Ramin               Sr. Operations Officer            HDGPE
Robert Robelus           Environmental Specialist          AFTEI
Gilles Veuillot          Sr. Counsel                       LEGAF
Ivan Rossignol           Chief Technical Specialist        FCDDR
Supervision/ICR
Mahine Diop              Sr. Municipal Engineer            AFTU2 Team Leader
Christian Diou           Sr. Municipal Engineer            AFTU2 Team Leader
Franck Bousquet          Sector Manager                    MNSSD
Maya El-Azzazi           Sr. Country Program Assistant     ECCU5
Louise Mekonda Engulu    Senior Communications Officer     AFRSC
Ernestina Attafuah       Senior Program Assistant          AFTU2
Angelo Donou             Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Bella Lelouma Diallo     Sr. Financial Spec.               AFTFM
Yvan Franusic            Consultant, Procurement           SARPS
Manush A. Hristov        Senior Counsel                    LEGEN
Guillemette Sidonie
                         Sr. Private Sector Dev. Spec      SASFP
Jaffrin
Jean Charles Amon Kra    Sr. Financial Management Spec. AFTME
Antoine V. Lema          Sr. Social Development Specialist AFTCS
Philippe Mahele Liwoke   Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPW


                                          43
Jean-Pierre Manshande     Consultant, Education              HDNHE
Paul Jonathan Martin      Sector Leader                      AFTSN
Pierre Morin              Senior Procurement Specialist      AFTPE
Gaspy Gedeon Muanda       Consultant, Financial Management   AFTFM
Madio Fall                Senior Water Specialist            AFTU2
Deo Mulikuza Mirindi      Consultant, Water and Sanitation   TWIAF
Africa Eshogba Olojoba    Senior Environmental Specialist    MNSEE
Susan Opper               Consultant, Education              SASED
Johan Verhaghe            Consultant, Education              AFTEE
Gilles Marie Veuillot     Consultant, Legal                  SASDE
Nicole Kazadi             Program Assistant                  AFCC2
Christian Eghoff          Consultant, Urban Development      AFTU2 ICR author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                                       23.05                     129.42
FY08                                        2.41                      8.76
                          Total:           25.46                     138.18
Supervision/ICR
FY08                                       24.12                     131.49
FY09                                       23.34                     121.31
FY10                                       18.41                     127.69
FY11                                       17.32                     101.48
FY12                                       12.38                      65.95
FY13                                       10.15                      52.90
FY14                                        1.90                      33.50
                          Total:          107.62                     634.37




                                          44
                              Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.    Annex 5 presents a summary of the beneficiary satisfaction survey finalized in
September 2013 to assess the impact of project activities.

Scope and methodology

2.      The survey was carried out by questionnaire in Kinshasa and three Provinces
(Bandundu, Katanga, and Province Orientale) and concerned the Education, Roads,
Water, and Malaria Components of EUSRP. For the Education Component, 10 percent of
heads of schools were selected randomly from a list to respond to the questionnaire in
Kinshasa and the selected provinces. For the Road Component, 357 heads of households
were interviewed, selected randomly in the vicinity (under 500 meters from the road) of
each road section upgraded by the project in Kinshasa (at least 10 respondents per road
section). The procedure was similar for the Water Component, with 542 heads of
households in each of 40 neighborhoods benefiting from the EUSRP (at least 10 per
neighborhood). For the Malaria Component, proportionate to population size cluster
sampling was used to select first health zones, then health areas and finally random
households were selected from a list of beneficiaries, for a total of 1208 households in the
survey (938 in Kinshasa and 270 in Bandundu).

3.      The survey is based on subjective beneficiary perceptions and survey results
could therefore be influenced by a number of factors, including socio-economic factors
outside the control of the project. Beneficiaries might have over- or underreported
benefits of specific components, depending on such factors as overall satisfaction with
government performance, economic growth or general economic situation of the
household, and wish to influence potential and/or perceived future flow of benefits. Some
footnotes are included below to comment on survey results. Ideally, the survey should
have been conducted as a baseline survey for each component and a follow-up ex post
survey to reduce the influence of outside factors. However, the relatively high number of
respondents and the use of standardized questionnaires for each component are sufficient
basis to allow us to use the data as indicative of qualitative tendencies.

Survey Results

Education
4.     The survey found that in 56 percent of schools, fees to be paid by parents had
been reduced or eliminated, although in 75 percent of schools, parents continue to pay
some sort of contribution. Overall, 79 5 percent of schools had been able to finance


5
  The survey carried out for the economic analysis of the Education Component found that 75 percent of
schools had improved learning environment. The 77 percent retained as a result in the ICR is the average of
the two.



                                                    45
essential expenditures which would not have been possible without the support of
EUSRP. The main types of expenditures made possible by the EUSRP were purchase of
equipment and teaching materials (28 percent), refurbishing of classrooms and offices (20
percent) and maintenance of blackboards, tables, and chairs (19 percent). According to
respondents, in the absence of the project, 19 percent of schools would have been forced
to completely abandon these investments, while 81 percent would have sought other
means of financing (principally parents, in 75 percent of cases).

5.      Overall 81 percent of headmasters are satisfied with the component, with 19
percent being either neutral or dissatisfied. The main reasons for satisfaction are the
operation of the school (cited by 50 percent), equipment for classrooms and offices (11
percent), carrying out of other school projects (9 percent) and reduction of the fees paid
by parents (5 percent). The reasons for dissatisfaction were principally poor choices of
expenditures (46 percent)6, irregular payment of tranches (46 percent) and the limited
amounts (9 percent). The main recommendations for improving the process are to
increase amounts and assure regularity of transfers (cited by 47 percent of respondents),
or to establish specific funds for continuous payment of equipment and rehabilitation (35
percent).

Roads
6.      According to the survey, before the project 34 percent of beneficiaries
experienced difficulties accessing their place of residence by motorized transport and 19
percent did not have access by vehicle at all. After the project, the numbers had been
reduced to 2 percent (difficulties) and 1 percent (no access) respectively. On the other
hand, the percentage of people having easy access by motorized transport after the project
went up from 47 percent before the project to 98 percent after the project. On average,
beneficiaries reported a reduction of 15 minutes to the nearest public transport. Before the
project, each beneficiary would need on average 1.5 public transports (minibus or shared
taxi) to reach the center of the city. After the project, this had been reduced to 1.2 public
transports (minibus or shared taxi).

7.      In terms of impact on the environment, 32 percent of the beneficiary population
considered their environment clean before the project, while this had gone up to 78
percent after the project. Conversely the proportion of the population that considered
their environment dirty before and after the project was 55 percent against 18 percent,
and the percentage of the population considering the environment very dirty had gone
down from 13 to 5 percent. Drainage was also improved due to the project, since 35
percent of respondents reported flooding in their concession during rains before the
project while this was only 19 percent after the project. For the number of houses
experiencing flooding, the prevalence went down from 20 percent to 13 percent. In terms
of stagnant water in the concessions (a main breeding ground for mosquitoes), the



6
  Expenditures were determined by the school council, with participation of the headmaster, teachers,
committee of parents, pupils, and representatives of the local community.



                                                    46
respondents reported a reduction from 43 percent before the project to 20 percent after
the project.

8.     Overall, 61 percent of respondents find that the project has contributed to creating
new economic opportunities in the neighborhoods and 90 percent of respondents report
being satisfied or very satisfied with the project.

Water
9.      According to the survey, 47 percent of households used tap water before the
project in the beneficiary neighborhoods; this number had increased to 73 percent after
the project. Before the project, 36 percent of beneficiaries would use surface water, while
this was only used by 1 percent after the project.10. 13 percent used water standposts as a
main source of water before, whereas 26 percent used this source after the project. Other
sources used by a small fraction of respondents were dug or drilled wells (4 percent
before, 1 percent after). The distance to fetch water had been reduced from on average
434 meters before the project to 90 meters after the project, a reduction of 344 meters. In
line with this, households used on average 93 minutes to fetch water before the project
and 35 minutes after the project.7 Before the project, average daily water consumption by
a household was 128 liters, after the project, this had increased to 161 liters.

11.     The beneficiaries were also asked about their satisfaction with the project along a
number of parameters (access to water, regularity of service, tariffs8, sustainability, and
time to fetch water). On average, 51 percent of respondents found their expectations on
these parameters had been met, with 21 percent neutral and 28 percent reporting that their
expectations had not been met. However, when asked only about access, 74 percent of
beneficiaries were satisfied their expectations had been met, with 11 percent neutral and
15 percent dissatisfied. The main reason for satisfaction was access and reduction of time
(cited by 66 percent), with 15 percent citing regularity of service as a reason, and
presence of a tap cited by 6 percent. The respondents were not asked about reasons for
dissatisfaction. Regarding overall satisfaction, 88 percent of respondents reported being
either very satisfied or satisfied.

12.     A supplementary survey was carried out by another consultant to verify the
impact of the water standposts on school enrollment rates for girls. Data was collected in
a sample of nine schools in the neighborhoods which benefited from water standposts and
shows that the enrollment of girls in these schools increased by 12 percent. Since the task
of fetching water falls mostly on the female members of households (girls), the survey
attributes this result to the presence of water standposts and time saved to fetch water.


Malaria


7
  This corresponds well with the data used for the economic analysis, for which a separate survey was
carried out and found a reduction from 94 minutes to fetch water before the project to 34 minutes after the
project.
8
  Which the project did not influence.


                                                     47
13.    The main objective of the component was usage of ITNs. In the two targeted
geographic zones (Kinshasa and Bandundu), 98 percent of beneficiaries report using their
ITN.9 The main reason for usage cited was to avoid insects (50 percent), to avoid malaria
(39 percent), to avoid insects and malaria (6 percent) and to sleep (6 percent). The reason
for non-utilization was that respondents do not tolerate ITNs (58 percent), disposes of
another ITN (29 percent), or ITN damaged (14 percent).10

14.     The level of perceived advantages of using ITN compared to expectations was
quite high, with 96 percent satisfied overall, and only 4 percent not satisfied.
Comparatively, the level of perceived advantages of using ITN compared to needs was
also high, with 95 percent of respondents satisfied, and only 4 percent not satisfied. The
percentage of respondents reporting that advantages were higher than disadvantages was
also very high (99 percent).




9
  This could be over-reported, as the number is high compared to post-distribution surveys, which found
that the coverage level was 79 percent and 95 percent respectively in Kinshasa and Bandundu. The post-
distribution survey used standardized and more reliable methodology with on-site verification.
10
   Only 14 of total respondents (of the 2 percent reported non-users) gave reasons for non-usage,
insufficient numbers for reliable statistics.



                                                   48
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                     49
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     Section (a) below contains the summary of the borrower ICR, translated from
French to English by the ICR team. Section (b) contains the Bank’s translation into
English of the comments sent by UCoP on the draft Bank ICR.

(a) Summary of government’s ICR

                            Democratic Republic of Congo
                Ministry of Planning and the Revolution of Modernity
                             Implementation Monitoring


                      PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (UCOP)


      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE EUSRP COMPLETION REPORT



1.   OBJECTIVE

Initial Main Objective

The Project had as initial development objective to “to help the DRC face urgent post-
elections challenges by: (i) providing resources to maintain macro-economic stability and
fund critical expenditures in the immediate future; and (ii) addressing urgent
rehabilitation and social needs in Kinshasa, which was key to political and social stability.
This was expected to help create an environment in which reforms could be sustained and
to prevent political and economic regression, which may otherwise have resulted in social
instability, civil unrest and possibly reversion to conflict.”

Main objective modified

The document amending the objectives contained the adaptation of those initial
development objectives so that they are more realistic and more focused. The revised
development objective was “to respond to urgent challenges by: (i) supporting domestic
debt settlement; and (ii) addressing urgent rehabilitation and social needs in targeted
areas.”

Specific Objectives

 The component “Support to education recovery through finance of select recurrent
  expenditures “: support the efforts of the Congolese authorities for the funding of
  selected operating expenses of the eligible schools, as well as services, communication
  and related audits. In doing so, the parents, who, up to this day, were bearing this
  burden, would be relieved.


                                            50
 The component “Completion of the domestic debt settlement” had a double objective,
  namely (i) inject fresh capital into the creditor companies and (ii) send a signal to the
  private sector as to the determination of the government to keep its commitments.
 For the component “Rehabilitation of priority urban roads in Kinshasa”, the objective
  was to facilitate the opening up of populous neighborhoods, to connect them to the rest
  of the city and to reduce bottlenecks. The government had requested that a heavy
  structure be applied to the selected sections so as to guarantee a good sustainability of
  the rehabilitated sections.
 For the component “Water and Sanitation in peri-urban areas of Kinshasa”, the
  objective was to contribute to the expansion of the water distribution network from the
  water treatment station of the Lukaya to serve approximately 150,000 inhabitants of
  Mont Ngafula, Ngaliema, Lemba and Selembao.
 The component “Malaria reduction and prevention” aimed to contribute to the
  purchasing and distribution, free of charge, of insecticide-treated bed nets with lasting
  action for each household of Kinshasa.


2. ASSESSMENT OF THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

Assessment of the primary objective

Regarding the development objective, we note that the initial development objective has
been achieved: there was actually “establishment of a climate in which the reforms can be
supported”, and “there has been no return to conflict”, even if it is difficult to know to
what extent the contributions of the project have been decisive, but this is often the case
for a development objective.
At the completion of the project, we must note that the development objective, as
reformulated, has also been achieved, namely support the clearance of domestic debt and
address the urgent rehabilitation and social needs in the targeted areas.
From a practical point of view, it was expected that the results of the project would be
assessed through outcome indicators in term of the following numbers: the direct
beneficiaries of the project, and in proportion of female beneficiaries. It emerges that,
concerning the rehabilitation of the urban road system, access to safe drinking water and
malaria control, the number of target beneficiaries was 3,124,648 people and at the end of
the project, the number of actual beneficiaries was 3,709,786 people, that is, a result of
118.7%.11




11
   This number differs from the number retained in the Bank ICR, as the government ICR does not include
school children or adults benefiting from ITNs as beneficiaries.



                                                  51
Assessment of the achievement of specific objectives by component

Component 1: Achievement of the objective is satisfactory

While the initial target of the EUSRP was to make 9,450,000 pupils benefit from the
payment of operational costs of their schools, in the end 13,365,000 pupils have
benefited, that is, 141.4 %. Furthermore, in May 2010, the project documents had found
that 99% of schools had received payments, which greatly exceeded the target of 70 %.
Component 2: Achievement of the objective is satisfactory.
With regard to the first objective, the EUSRP has effectively implemented the activities
planned by the project document and has injected US$46 million of fresh capital into the
creditor enterprises. With regard to the second objective, it is not certain that the signal
sent by the government to keep its commitments has convinced the businesses
community especially when we know that the clearance is only done, on average, at 20
percent of the debts.

Component 3: Achievement of the objective is very satisfactory.
Compared to an objective of 40 km, the project has achieved a total of 40.2 km of roads
rehabilitated, which is a rate of achievement of 100.5 percent. We may note that the
average cost of rehabilitation by kilometer of road in the agglomeration of Kinshasa is
US$1.1 million.
It should also be noted that the impact of the roads is very important for access of a large
number of poor neighborhoods, by a sharp increase (i) in mobility, (ii) of economic
activities as well as (iii) activities of construction and improvement of the habitat. This
shows that despite the emergency nature and expedient programming of the works, the
project has been able to select the works having a very high impact.
These roadways have allowed serving 1,295,376 inhabitants, compared with the initial
estimates which were of 800,000 people; this is 162 percent of the original target.
Component 4: The specific objective of the component is not yet fully achieved , but it
is broadly achievable and will be achieved as REGIDESO will put in place individual
connections and additional water standpoints. As a matter of fact, the completion report
of the component of May 31, 2013 considers that the work carried out at the water
catchment station makes it possible to move from a flow rate of approximately 20,000
cubic meters per day to a higher flow rate of 36,000 cubic meters per day, which
constitutes the current capacity to provide water to 290,000 people.
Component 5: Achievement of the objective is satisfactory.
The EUSRP targeted children under 5 years of age sleeping under ITNs with long lasting
action in the project area in Kinshasa. Before the project, the ratio was 32%; the project
target was 60% (that is 1,010,448 children). At the end of the project 64.7% (1,089,600
children) were sleeping under insecticide-treated bed nets with lasting action; this
represents a result rate of 107.8%.


                                            52
3. PERFORMANCE OF STAKEHOLDERS

   WORLD BANK
The performance of the World Bank is satisfactory. It has strongly involved itself in
the identification of the project and its teams have carried out many field visits. This
involvement stems in particular from the intense policy dialog between the World Bank
and the government.
During the entire period of project implementation which lasted for more than 6 and a
half years, the Bank has carried out regular monitoring missions together with monitoring
field visits, plus specific missions of experts hired by the Bank, as well as audio and
video conferences arranged as necessary. The fact that the current Task Team Leader is
based in Brazzaville is an additional positive factor that has facilitated monitoring and
surveillance, and the resolution of problems encountered.
However, we must point out the non-payment of half-yearly installments of operating
costs to secondary schools selected in the context of the additional financing, because of
the non-disbursement by IDA of the total amount provided for the payment of the first
half-yearly installment of operating costs, linking the disbursement of the operating costs
to the presentation of evidence supporting the advances received by UNICEF.

 BENEFICIARY
The overall performance of the Beneficiary is satisfactory.

The government performance is very satisfactory.

The government strongly involved itself in the process of identification and preparation
of the project. The government has complied with, within the deadlines, the conditions
for the implementation of the Grant Agreement for the project.
The government strongly supported the execution of the various components of the
project. Through its representatives in the city of Kinshasa, SECOPE, CPDI of the
Ministry of Finance, OVD, REGIDESO, and the two Kinshasa and Bandundu Health
Inspections.

The performance of UCOP is satisfactory.

UCoP involved itself in the identification and preparation of the EUSRP, while the
implementation of the EESRSP and the ELCISP were in progress.
UCoP has regularly produced and transmitted to the Bank, within the prescribed time
limits by the Grant Agreement, all due documents. Besides, the opinion expressed in all
the financial audits reports was satisfactory. It is worth noting that the financial
management of the project was rated “satisfactory” during various review missions and
more particularly during the project mid-term review.




                                            53
UCoP has also commissioned before the limit of 12 months following the effectiveness
date, the environmental and social studies prescribed by the Grant Agreement, due to the
classification of the project in environmental category B.

The performance of public institutions is satisfactory.

These actors have been involved in the implementation of the project: the city of
Kinshasa, SECOPE, the CDPI, OVD, REGIDESO, the two Kinshasa and Bandundu
Provincial health Inspections.
They were entrusted on the basis of contractual documents (protocol, convention) signed
with UCoP in their areas of jurisdiction of the responsibilities which rested with them as
partners. In return, the project has funded actions of capacity building such as the
provision of equipment and various logistical supports.

  PERFORMANCE OF FIRMS, SUPPLIERS, CONSULTANTS
The performance of firms is overall satisfactory.

Most of the work has been completed within the initial deadlines or modified owing to
additional works. Overall, the costs have respected the envelopes provided by the initial
EUSRP project document and the additional EUSRP. The quality of the work is overall
satisfactory; defects detected during the provisional acceptance were corrected by the
firms.

The performance of the suppliers is satisfactory.

The suppliers of bed nets did not have particular difficulties to meet their contractual
commitments. In addition to the ITNs, there has also been contracts for the provision of
vehicles, motorbikes and other supplies for the partners of UCoP, notably the SECOPE,
OVD, REGIDESO and the two Provincial Health Inspections.

The performance of the consultants in charge of studies is moderately satisfactory.
The works supervision missions of Component 3 have had to amend some studies, partly
because of the additional degradation incurred between the studies and the execution. The
studies, especially for the second tranche, were not very detailed and some parts had to be
redone by the works supervisors. This is the reason for the addition of riders to the road
works of Avenue Kimbanseke and the bypass developed at the end of the Avenue
Lumière.
The performance of the consultants responsible for work monitoring is satisfactory .
They have ensured (i) a close monitoring of the construction sites based on the work
planning updated regularly, (b) a strict monitoring of the quality of the materials and their
implementation, (c) the obligation of firms to meet the commitments of their bids
regarding staff and equipment.




                                             54
4. LESSONS LEARNED

a) The use of the UNOPS for procurement has reassured the donor and the government
and has allowed accelerating the procedures.
b) Communication on identification and execution of activities was done on a regular
basis directly to the beneficiaries, in French and in the local languages and through the
local media; this has contributed to the understanding of the project different components
by the population.
c) The involvement of the authorities in communication campaigns and especially in
the resolution of problems with the residents.
d) A strong emphasis was put on the speed of investment implementation, while
detailed studies were necessary to avoid inaccuracies and unexpected work, which
required the signing of several contract amendments.


(b) Translation into English of comments on draft ICR sent by UCoP

2.     UCoP provided comments to the Bank on the draft ICR by email of November 19,
2013, requesting the Bank to review the ratings of Borrower performance:

       “After reading the ICR, we find that in Section 5 on Assessment of Bank and
       Borrower Performance, there is a discord between text of the Bank ICR and the
       executive summary of the Borrower’s ICR.”

       “Due to the fact that the very condensed executive summary of the Borrower’s
       ICR cannot present the full picture of performance, we request that the ratings in
       the Bank’s ICR be updated to reflect the ratings of the executive summary of the
       Borrower’s ICR.”




                                           55
       Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There were no cofinanciers or other partners.




                                           56
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are in the project file:

          Emergency Project Paper (2007)
          Financing Agreement (2007)
          Environmental and Social Management Framework (2008)
          Resettlement Policy Framework (2008)
          Financing Agreement – Amendment (2009)
          Additional Grant Emergency Project Paper (2010)
          Financing Agreement – Additional Financing (2011)
          Restructuring Paper (2012)
          Project aide-memoires
          Mid-Term Review Report (2009)
          Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs #1-11, 2007-2013)
          Component 1 impact evaluation on financing of select recurrent expenditures
           (2013)
          Component 2 completion report on debt payment in Bas-Congo, Katanga,
           Province Orientale, Kinshasa, and Nord-Sud Kivu (2009)
          Component 2 impact evaluation of debt payment in Bas-Congo, Katanga,
           Province Orientale, Kinshasa, and Nord-Sud Kivu (2013)
          Component 3 traffic counting and economic evaluation (2013)
          Component 4 economic evaluation of water component (2013)
          Component 5 evaluation report on ITN distribution (2013)
          Component 5 completion report on ITN distribution in Bandundu UNICEF
           (2013)
          Component 5 completion report on ITN distribution in Bandundu PNLP
           (2013)
          Component 5 completion report on ITN distribution in Kinshasa (2013)
          Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey (2013)
          Government Implementation Completion Report (2013)
          Technical Audit Report (2013)
          Report on school absence before and after the project (2013).
          Report on completion of the RAP (2011).




                                           57
MAP




58
                           10°E                                                                                     15°E                                                                                                                                          25°E                                                                    30°E
                                                                                                                                                      CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                         SOUTH SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
            5°N                                                                                                                                                                      Ubang                              To               Bangasso                                                                                                                                         5°N
                                                                                                                                                               To                         i                           Kembe
                                                                                                                                                             Bangui                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                          Zongo          Gbadolite                                                             BAS-UELE                                                                                 Juba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bondo                                                                        Faradje
                                                                                                                                                                                               NORD-UBANGI                                                    Uele
                                                                                                                                                                           Libenge
                                                                                                                                                                                     Gemena                 Businga                                                                                               HAUT-UELE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Titule
                                                                            DEM. REP.                                                                                                                                                                      Buta                                            Isiro               Watsa      Kiba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               li
                                                                            OF CONGO                                                                                       SUD-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Aketi                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                          Imese           UBANGI              Akula
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lisala                                                                                                                                               Pakwach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bumba                                          ORIENTALE                              Wamba
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MONGALA                                 C                                                                            Mongbwalu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bunia            UGANDA




                                                                                                                                                            angui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Aruwimi                                         ITURI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Banalia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             g
                                                                                                                                                                                    nga                                                                                                                                                                     Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                                                               Lulo               Bongandanga




                                                                                                                                                          Oub




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mts
                                                                                                                                                                                        Basankusu                                                          TSHOPO                Bafwasende                                                                 Albert
                                                                                                                                                                                 EQUATEUR                                                       Yangambi                                                                         Beni




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ba
                                                                                                                                                                      É Q U AT E U R                                                                 Kisangani                                                            Butembo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Margherita Peak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  tum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Wanie Rakula                                                    (5,110 m)
            0°                                                                                                                                                       Mbandaka                                Boende                                                                                                                                                                         0°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mi
                                                                                                                      CONGO                                                                                           Tshu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a pa                                                                                NORD                        Lake
                                                 G ABON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lubutu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KIVU                       Edward                       Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lo m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lua
                                                                                                                                                              Bikoro                               T S H U A PAL                       Ikela                      mi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NORD-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          om
                                                                                                                                                                                                uil
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ak                          ela                                                                                                                                    Victoria




                                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                                                                                                                                        a                                                               Lowa                               KIVU Goma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ul                                               To Ruhengeri
                                                                                                                                                                      Inongo                                                                                                              i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake Kivu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nd
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Betamba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Congo
                                                                                                                                             Yumbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                      MAI-NDOMBE                                                                                                                              Kalima              Bukavu          Kibuye                    RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                          Kutu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kindu    SUD
                                                                                                                                                                               Buna                                                                                            KIVU
                                                                                             KINSHASA                                      Bandundu                                                   Lukenie                          Lodja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Uvira                                         To
                                                                                         KINSHASA CITY                                                                    Kasa
                                                                                                                                                                              i                                                                                        MANIEMA      SUD-                                           Bujumbura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      uru              SANKURU                                 Kama                                                                    BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                       BANDUNDU                       Mangai                     Sank                                                  MANIEMA      KIVU
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ilebo
                                                                                                                                 KINSHASA                   Bulungu                                                                            KASAI                     Malela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lusambo                                        Kasongo
                                                                                                                                                 Kenge               KWILU                        KASA
                                                                                                                                                                                                     AÏÏ                                                                                                        Lulimba
            5°S                    CABINDA                                               BAS-CONGO                                                                                                                                             ORIENTAL                                                                                                                                    5°S
                                                                                                                                                                  Kikwit              Idiofa
                                  (ANGOLA)                   To                        KONGO CENTRAL
                                                                                                                 Mbanza-Ngungu
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Luebo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOMAMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kongolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TA N Z A N I A
                                                           Pointe-          Boma                                                                                                            KASAI    Kananga                                                                                                ga         Kalemie
                                                                                                                                                                            Kw




                                                           Noire                                                                                                                                                  Mbuji-                                                                                Luku                                 Lake
                  ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                                                                 KASAÏ- Mayi
                                                                                                                                                                               ilu




                                                                                         Matadi                            To
                                                                                                                                                          Feshi                           OCCIDENTAL                                                                                                                                         Tanganyika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kabinda                                  Kabalo
                   OCEAN                                                                                                 Damba
                                                                                                                                                                                          Tshikapa           Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                               sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TANGANYIKA
                                                                                                                                                      KWANGO                                                          LULUA
                                                                                                                                                 Kw




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Moba
                                                                                                                                                  ang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mwene-Ditu                                                        Manono




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  am
                                                                                                                                                      o




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KATANGA                                      Luv

                    OF CONGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H A U T- L O M A M I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kapanga                              s.                                         Pweto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kamina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lueo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lulua Lu




                                                       PROVINCE CAPITALS*                                                                             ANGOLA                                                                                                                                      L            Kilwa            Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mweru




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        itu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  uf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l ua




                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                  Sandoa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lubudi                          HAUT-                                                                             10°S
                                                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                             LUALABA                                                      KATANGA
                                                       MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kolwezi                                            To
                                                                                                                                             0        100           200       300        400 Kilometers                        Dilolo                                                           Likasi                     Luwingu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZAMBIA
                                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lab
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lucano                                                                                                                                                          Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES**                                                                 0               100                  200 Miles                                                                                                                Lubumbashi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33391R2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M A L AW
                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
            *The creation of 26 new Provinces was approved by the ratification of the 2005 Constitution, to take effect by February,
                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZAMB I A                                            Sakania
JULY 2011




                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                      To
            2009. The existing 11 Province Capitals, shown with green circles, will retain their status, with the exception of Bandundu.                                                                                                                                                                       Kitwe
                                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
            Future Province Capitals are shown with white circles.
                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
            **The existing 11 Province boundaries and names are shown in dark green; future in light green.                                                                                                                                                       25°E                                                                    30°E
