Document of             Ow
The World Bank               t                : @
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3749-CY
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 1, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents!/
Currency Unit            = Cyprus Pound (CE) (1000 Milliemes)
US$2.32                  = C£ 1.00
US$1.00                  = CE 0.43
Systems of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric System            British/US System
1 Meter (m)              = 3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)         = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 Metric ton (m ton)    = 2,204.60 pounds (lb)
Acronyms and Abbreviations
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
CPA       -  Cyprus Port Authority
DA        -  District Administration
DCA       -  Department of Civil Aviation
ER        -  Economic Return
FD        -  Forestry Department
FYR       -  First Year Return
IBRD      -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
KFAED     -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MCW       -  Ministry of Communications and Works
PWD       -  Public Works Department of MCW
WEV       -  Wallace Evans & Partners and Martin Voorhees Associates
GOVERNMENT OF CYPRUS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Adjusted as of October 1981



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    The Transport System .  . . . . . . . . . .1 . .
B.    Transport Planning, Policy and
Coordination . . . . .1. . . . . . . . . . . .
C.    Previous Transport Sector Operations  . . . . . .4
II.  THE HIGHWAY SECTOR               -  
A.    The Network   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      4
B.    Traffic    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
C.    Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      5
D.    Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      5
E.    Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
F.    Engineering   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
G.    Construction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
H.    Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
I.    Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       7
III.  THE PROJECT
A.    General   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       8
B.    Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
C.    Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
D.    Engineering   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
E.    Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     13
F.    Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     14
G.    Project Execution, Supervision and
Reporting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     15
H.    Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . .                     17
I.   Accounting Systems and Auditing   . . . . . . . .                      18
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    General   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
B.    Main Benefits and Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . .                     19
C.    Economic Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     19
D.    Other Project Elements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     21
E.    Project Risks and the Environment   . . . . . . .                     22
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       22
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. K. Ganguli (Economist), M. R. Payne
(Highway Engineer) and J. Burns (Consultant, Financial Analyst) on the
basis of an appraisal mission to Cyprus during October 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page
ANNEXES
1    Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank           24
2    Organization of Public Works Department                           25
3    Project Unit for Construction and Maintenance (Roads)              26
4    Equipment for Vehicle Testing and Examination Centers              27
5    Training Program                                                   28
6    Road Maintenance Equipment                                        29
7    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File           30
8    Project Implementation Schedule                                    32
9    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                33
10    Accounting Systems and Auditing                                   34
11    Economic Analysis of Rural Roads Improvement Program               37
TABLES
1    Highway Revenue and Expenditures 1975-80                          41
2    Consumption, Production, Import of Oil (1975-80) and
Price of Gasoline and Diesel Oil (1979-81)                      42
3    Highway Network by Administration (1975-80)                       43
4    Motor Vehicle Registrations (1975-80)                              44
5    Highway Design Standards - Width Classification                   45
6    Design Standards for the Limassol Bypass and Ypsonas Link         46
7    Economic Returns and First Year Returns                           47
MAPS
16139 - Cyprus - Third Highway Project - Rural Road Improvement Program
*16140R - Cyprus - Third Highway Project - Limassol Bypass
* Map under preparation--to be distributed separately.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean with an
area of about 9,250 sq. km. It has a maximum length of about 250 km from
east to west and a maximum width of about 100 km from north to south. The
main geographical features of the island are two east-west mountain ranges
(Kyrenia and Troodos), which cover about half its area, separated by a
broad central plain. This configuration facilitates east-west transport
routes, but is an impediment to north-south routes.
1.02     The economic development of Cyprus was seriously affected by poli-
tical events in July 1974. Subsequently, the Turkish Federated State of
Cyprus was proclaimed by the Turkish Cypriots in February 1975 and, pending
an island-wide political settlement, retains control of the northern part
of the island (36% of the land area).
1.03     The transportation system in Cyprus prior to the 1974 events was
reasonably balanced, comprising roads, ports, airport, and a limited amount
of coastal shipping. The 1974 events, however, resulted in significant
disruptions in the transport sector. Currently there is negligible move-
ment between the southern and northern parts of the island.
1.04     Since the 1974 events, the Government has undertaken improvements
to the existing transport system so that they serve better the economic
needs of the areas under its control. With the closing of the Nicosia
Airport (now under United Nations control), the Government has constructed
and extended the Larnaca airport runway and expanded service areas to
accommodate medium- and long-range jet aircraft. Another international-
standard airport is under construction at Paphos and is likely to be
serviceable within three years. Until July 1974, the main general cargo
port in Cyprus was Famagusta which handled over 80% of the total traffic
passing through Cyprus ports. Currently, Limassol, a newly constructed
port, is primarily relied on for general imports and exports; Larnaca port
is also available for general cargo, although it is predominantly used for
the import of petroleum products and exports of potato and cement. A new
cement export facility is under construction at Vasilikos on the south
coast. As Cyprus has no railway system, highways are of critical import-
ance. The highway network radiates from the capital, Nicosia, through the
hinterland to the main coastal centers, Limassol and Larnaca.
B. Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination
1.05     The Planning Bureau centralizes economic planning for the Govern-
ment and integrates development plans for all sectors, including transport-
ation. The Director General of the Planning Bureau is the secretary of the
Central Planning Commission which is at the apex of the planning structure



-2-
of the Government. The Commission is headed by the President of the
Republic and includes five Ministers, the activities of whose ministries
are closely related to economic and social development.
1.06     The events of 1974 interrupted implementation of the Third Five-
Year Plan (1972-76) which has since been replaced by the first, second and
third Emergency Economic Action Plans (1975-76, 1977-78, and 1979-81).
After the disruptions of 1974, the Government concentrated on immediate
transport needs, and it has now begun to focus on longer term planning.
Organization and Regulations
1.07     The organization of the transport sector follows the pre-July 1974
framework. The Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW), through its
Departments of Public Works (PWD) and its Inland Transport Department,
which administers vehicle policies and regulations, is responsible for main
roads, the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) for airports, the Cyprus Port
Authority (CPA) for ports, and the Ministry of Interior, the Forestry
Department (FD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and the municipalities for
the remaining roads.
1.08     The Government regulates public passenger and freight transport
under the Motor Transport Regulation Law of 1964 as updated by various
amendments. The Law is administered by the semi-independent Licensing
Authority and by the Licensing Department in MCW. The Government controls
fares and schedules for public transport routes and approves schedules of
urban and inter-urban buses. Government control is also exercised directly
over the import of buses and indirectly over trucks, as entry into the road
haulage industry is also Government controlled. These controls and regula-
tions are administered flexibly and there is competition within the trans-
port industry.
1.09     Three large private firms (each operating over 100 buses), several
smaller private firms and numerous individual bus, car and taxi owners pro-
vide passenger transport. Small firms and individual owners furnish freight
transport services. The quality of service is adequate and some owners
have consolidated operations to improve efficiency.
Transport Investments and Road User Charges
1.10     Overall transport accounted for about 20 to 25% of Cyprus' total
investments during 1975-80, mainly for the expansion of port capacity, air-
ports and roads. Currently, the total revenue from road transport exceeds
by three to four times the total highway expenditures (Table 1). However,
a detailed study on road user charges carried out in 1978 under the First
Highway Project (Loan 904-CY) revealed that the taxation on certain types
of vehicles, particularly heavy trucks and buses, was inadequate to cover
their share of infrastructure costs. Moreover, there was a substantial
diesel subsidy. In accordance with Loan Agreement 1344-CY, the Government
reviewed the major recommendations of the road user charges study and the



-3-
Council of Ministers approved, in principle, in May 1980, that the subsidy
on diesel oil was to be gradually eliminated and that the road user charges
on different types of vehicles, particularly heavy vehicles, should be
closely related to the road damage inflicted by them.
1.11     The pricing policy of fuel oil is of crucial significance since
Cyprus is completely dependent on foreign oil supplies to meet its energy
needs. The consumption, production and import of oil in Cyprus and the
price of gasoline and diesel oil are shown in Table 2. The price of diesel
oil has increased from 225 mils (US$0.52) per gallon in June 1976 to
600 mils (US$1.40) per gallon in July 1981. At present, the diesel oil
price approximately covers producers' costs (imported crude price, refining
costs and distribution costs). This is a major step in the right direc-
tion. The price of gasoline is equivalent to US$3.36 per Imperial gallon.
There are still a few anomalies in the present system of user charges, in
particular in the circulation charges on different types of vehicles and in
the rates of import duties on spare parts, etc.; these are being examined
by the Government. The matter was discussed during loan negotiations and
an understanding reached with the Government regarding the desirability of
increasing and rationalizing circulation charges for heavy commercial
vehicles. A study being undertaken in this connection was expected to be
completed later this year, after which proposals will be formulated for the
Government's consideration. It was agreed that the Government would keep
the Bank informed of further progress made towards the rationalization of
road user charges.
Vehicle Load Regulations
1.12     A study of vehicle regulations was carried out by consultants
under the First Highway Project. The Government, after reviewing the con-
sultants' recommendations and taking into account the traffic growth, the
substantial increase in axle loading in recent years, and future transport
needs, has prepared draft legislation setting new vehicle dimensions and
axle loading limits.l/ The draft bill has been forwarded to the Council
of Ministers for their approval and thereafter will be sent to the House of
Representatives for enactment. It is expected that promulgation will take
six to eight months. To ensure compliance with the new regulations, it
will be necessary to establish and equip vehicle testing centers with
equipment to be procured under the proposed project. During loan negotia-
tions, an understanding was reached with the Government that the Bank would
be kept informed regarding further progress in implementing the vehicle
weight regulation system.
1/   The maximum single axle load would be 11 tonnes; the maximum permis-
sible tandem axle load would be 18 tonnes for axle spacings less than
or equal to 3 meters.



-4-
C. Previous Transport Sector Operations
1.13     The proposed loan would be the fifth Bank Group operation for
transport in Cyprus and the third for highways. Annex 1 shows details of
these projects, which also include two port projects (Loan 628-CY and
Loan 1540-CY), with a total Bank participation of US$35.4 million.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     Southern Cyprus has about 9,500 km of roads of which about
4,300 km are paved (Table 3). The main highways of the southern area
administered by MCW make up about 1,900 km of which 1,800 km are bitumen
paved. The remainder of the system comprises municipal roads, minor roads
and forestry roads. The total length of the modernized road network in the
south increased from about 3,600 km in 1975 to about 4,300 km in 1980.
2.02     The southern area road network, whilst generally of adequate
scope, requires improved standards to satisfy changes in traffic patterns
resulting from the changes in the economy since July 1974. The on-going
Bank financed Second Highway Project includes construction of a new
Nicosia-Limassol highway (about 72 km) which will cater to the changed
highway needs in the south, but would also serve traffic when resumed
between the southern and northern areas of the island. As roads are the
only means of overland transport, they are being used intensively and there
is inadequate capacity on certain key links in the network. In some cases,
poor surface conditions, combined with narrow, winding alignments have
imposed harsh cost penalties on vehicle usage.
B. Traffic
2.03     The motor vehicle (excluding motorcycles) fleet for the entire
island grew at an average annual rate of about 6.4% between 1968 and 1974,
at which latter time there were about 86,000 registered vehicles.
Following the events of July 1974, the number of vehicles in the southern
part decreased but since then has gradually increased to the present level
of over 115,000 (Table 4). The current level of motorization is about
18 cars (or about 24 vehicles) per 100 inhabitants, which is the highest of
the developing countries along the eastern Mediterranean.
2.04     Since the events of 1974, the most significant traffic growth
(about 10 to 15% per annum) has been on the Nicosia-Limassol road, which is
the main artery of the southern area network. In general, on the arterial
routes, traffic increased by about 7% per annum during the last six years.
In tourist areas, the traffic directly attributable to tourists is about
12% of all car traffic. With an average annual tourism growth of about
15%, this is likely to account for about 1.5% per annum of total car



-5-
traffic growth over and above the general level of car traffic growth.
Furthermore, the number of light commercial vehicles has almost doubled
during 1975-80 and this trend is likely to continue in future to meet the
needs of intra-city commercial traffic. Traffic management within the
major cities has now assumed increased significance and requires in-depth
study and effective solution. Likewise, rural passenger services need to
be coordinated to become more cost effective.
C. Administration
2.05     Responsibility for highway administration is divided among the PWD
in the MCW, the District Administration (DA) in the Ministry of Interior,
the FD in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Municipalities. The PWD is
responsible for main highways, the DA is responsible for lower category
roads and the FD for roads mostly used for forestry management and exploit-
ation. The Municipalities maintain local streets and roads located
entirely within their jurisdiction. The total kilometrage of roads under
various authorities is shown in Table 3.
2.06     The office of the Chief Engineer in the PWD (Annex 2) is respons-
ible for planning, design, construction and maintenance of main roads.
Administratively, southern Cyprus is divided into five districts: Nicosia,
Famagusta, Limassol, Larnaca and Paphos. Under control and supervision of
the Chief Engineer, five District Engineers' offices carry out highway
maintenance and force account construction in the southern part of the
country. The Chief Engineer's and District Engineers' offices are ade-
quately staffed with competent personnel.
2.07     The proposed project includes the establishment of a Project Unit
to monitor and control project implementation. The Project Unit would com-
prise three operational divisions for project road construction, monitoring
of road maintenance and technical assistance and would be supported by an
administrative and accounting division. It would be managed full-time by a
Coordinator (Annex 3) who would be a middle echelon civil engineer of 10 to
15 years relevant experience. Senior management of the Project Unit would
be undertaken on a part-time basis through the Director of the PWD. Whilst
its main function would be to monitor and control construction and mainte-
nance, the Project Unit would be responsible for preparing the second and
subsequent tranches of the rural road improvement programs (see para. 3.21).
After completion of the project, the staff of the unit would be reassigned
to apply their enhanced experience within the five operational districts of
PWD.
D. Planning
2.08     Under the First Highway Project (Loan 904-CY), the Government
undertook with the assistance of consultants a highway planning and organi-
zation study. Following up the recommendations of the study, a Planning
Section was set up in the office of the PWD Chief Engineer. Under his com-
petent direction, planning data - particularly traffic and cost data - were



-6-
compiled and analysed. Traffic counting, which earlier had been rudimen-
tary, was reorganized on a systematic and planned basis. Recently the PWD
has also acquired a micro-computer to facilitate traffic and transport
studies. The proposed project includes a training element which will
particularly strengthen economic planning and project evaluation within the
PWD.
E. Financing
2.09     Funds for highway construction and major improvements are allo-
cated from the Capital Development Budget, and those for highway mainte-
nance and minor improvements are allocated annually from the Recurrent
Budget. Departments of the respective ministries administer the use of the
budget allocations for construction and maintenance.
2.10     The allocation of Capital Development Budget and Recurrent Budget
funds for roads during 1975-80 are shown in Table 1. With no fixed regula-
tions for earmarking resources for highway investment, the Government
determines freely the amounts to be invested from year to year based on
established priorities.
F. Engineering
2.11     Generally, the Design Section of the Office of the PWD Chief
Engineer is responsible for the technical preparation of main highway
projects and all minor highways included in the project. The Section has
adequate facilities for carrying out most design work and the staff are
competent. Peak design workloads and some special investigations are
entrusted to consultants. The Project Unit (see para. 2.07) will undertake
the design of rural road improvements using staff assigned to it from the
Design Section and, if necessary, with the assistance of consultants.
2.12     Highway design standards were revised in 1973.  Details of the
standards, which are satisfactory, are shown in Tables 5 and 6.
2.13     Design work for other minor roads is presently handled by the
ministries concerned.
G. Construction
2.14     Prior to 1974, the PWD carried out by force account about 100 km
of paved road construction/improvements per year. About 30% of the PWD
highway equipment at that time remained in the northern area. However,
sufficient capacity has been sustained in the southern area to enable the
Government to continue, on an annual recurrent basis, satisfactory force
account operations for priority construction/widening/rehabilitation acti-
vities on rural road sections.



-7-
2.15     Major highway construction is normally undertaken by contract and
there is an adequate civil contracting industry operating in the southern
area. There are three major domestic civil works contractors with experi-
ence in road construction, all of whom are capable of handling contracts of
the size of the Limassol Bypass and the rural road improvements proposed in
the project. Two of the firms have several large contracts overseas.
Moreover, smaller firms act as sub-contractors to PWD for activities such
as earthworks for which PWD lacks equipment and for the supply of materials.
H. Maintenance
2.16     The PWD District Engineers' Offices use mostly force account and
contractors for routine and periodic maintenance, respectively. The inven-
tory of highway maintenance equipment and the related repair facilities in
each district, however, needs to be increased to cope with the essential
needs of the road network, including the maintenance backlog.
2.17     The quality of maintenance is good but the quantities achieved
varied from year to year and were inadequate because annual appropriations
fluctuated and were insufficient. These "go-stop-go" practices often
caused accelerated deterioration on highway sections where essential main-
tenance had to be postponed. In 1976, the PWD produced routine and
periodic road maintenance standards which form the basis by which PWD makes
annual budget requests to the Ministry of Finance. The Government is now
aware that more adequate funding for maintenance is justified and in 1980
almost doubled (Table 1) the annual allocation for this purpose and intends
to maintain this level of allocation in real terms, and further to provide
additional amounts annually to remedy in a phased manner the backlog in
highway maintenance from previous years. The PWD has prepared a five-year
maintenance program and budget proposals to meet these physical maintenance
targets as well as to eliminate the backlog of previous years. During loan
negotiations, the road maintenance program was discussed and an assurance
obtained from the Government that it would make available to the Bank for
review the annual maintenance work programs and budgets.
2.18     The Ministry of Interior and Forestry Department undertake mainte-
nance mostly on a force account, labor-intensive basis.
I. Training
2.19     The PWD has been able to recruit and retain an adequate number of
competent staff for its operations. To enable staff to remain abreast with
modern procedures and techniques, the First and Second Highway Projects
each contained about 30 man-months of overseas training in various profes-
sional skills. The training program (Annex 5) of short practical courses
overseas and local training in the Nicosia Technical Institute will be con-
tinued for PWD and other MCW staff under the proposed project.



-8-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01     In the past, to conform with Government's development objectives
and with priorities due to the changed situations after July 1974, Bank
lending in the transport sector has primarily focussed on the needs of the
main transport network. Thus, the changed traffic patterns, especially
between Nicosia and Limassol, dictated the urgency of construction of a new
highway, which is co-financed by the Bank (Loan 1344-CY) and the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED). Another Bank loan (Loan 628-CY)
financed a new deep-water port at Limassol as an alternative to Famagusta
port. The proposed Limassol Bypass will complete the main network connec-
tion between the Nicosia-Limassol highway and Limassol port. In addition,
to accord with the overall transport policy objectives to reach outlying
communities, the Government has proposed a rural road improvement program
to sustain regional agricultural and mineral development in the south,
improve accessibility to areas remote from Nicosia and Limassol and ensure
a balanced development of main, secondary and feeder roads. The rural road
improvement program, therefore, adds a new dimension to overall highway
planning.
B. Objectives
3.02     The main objectives of the project are to:
(i) support regional agricultural and mineral development plans
and to increase the coverage of social services through the
betterment of rural roads;
(ii) improve traffic conditions to and from Limassol port and
ease congestion on Limassol town streets by construction of
the Limassol Bypass;
(iii) strengthen the operations and administration of the PWD and
the Inland Transport Department, in particular to improve
their capability to implement and monitor the project com-
ponents, by providing them with technical assistance, equip-
ment and training; and
(iv) ensure adequate maintenance of the existing highway network.
C. Description
3.03     The project would comprise:
(i) a program for the improvement of up to 200 km of priority
rural roads (para. 3.04);



-9-
(ii) construction, with supervision, of the first two lanes of a
new Limassol Bypass (about 10 km) and a two-lane connecting
link via Ypsonas to the Limassol-Paphos road (about 9 km)
(para. 3.05);
(iii) provision of testing and examination equipment for use in
the vehicle inspection centers proposed to be set up by the
Government (para. 3.06);
(iv) technical assistance to help meet project objectives
(para. 3.07);
(v) a training program for MCW staff (para. 3.08); and
(vi) provision of equipment for road maintenance (para. 3.09).
Rural Road Improvement Program (200 km)
3.04     This provides for strengthening and widening existing rural roads
where alignments are poor and where maintenance has not coped with deterio-
ration, and to meet the demands placed upon pavements by modern and
increasing traffic. The program includes minor realignments, where
warranted, widening, strengthening and reconstruction of aged, deformed
pavements to the appropriate design standard for the traffic demand
(Table 5). The improvement program could be extended to the whole of
Cyprus in the event of a political solution. The 200 km length of roads
included in this program is flexible and depends mainly upon Government
priorities and the eventual cost of each section. Following completion of
the feasibility studies and review by the Government, it appears probable
that about 200 km will be covered in a three-year program (1983-85) includ-
ing about 56 km (Map IBRD 16139) of high priority roads being constructed
in the first year for which final engineering has been completed. The
balance of approximately 144 km of the program will be taken up in two
roughly equal installments in the second and third years and will allow for
a possible spill-over of rural road works into the fourth year (para. 3.25).
The rural road improvement programs for the second and third years have not
yet been finalized; these sub-projects will be technically and economically
evaluated by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank and the co-finan-
cier. Only those projects which would yield rates of return not less than
12% in accordance with agreed methodology and criteria (Annex 11) would be
selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank or co-financier
(para. 4.09). Each rural road sub-project shall meet the requirements of
the current highway design standards of the PWD. In particular, a com-
pleted Evaluation Sheet, in the form of Enclosure to Annex 11, shall be
submitted for each sub-project when it is proposed for inclusion in the
project. An assurance to this effect was obtained during loan negotiations.



-10-
Limassol Bypass (10 km) and Ypsonas-Erimi Link (9 km)
3.05      The feasibility study shows that construction of the first two
lanes of an eventual four-lane divided highway (10 km long) around Limassol
is warranted for opening in 1985. The bypass would connect Limassol port
with the new Nicosia-Limassol highway, and would provide links into
Limassol and with the Paphos road (Map IBRD 16140R). It represents the
logical extension of the Nicosia-Limassol highway included in the Second
Highway Project and financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund. Construction
of the bypass would enable traffic, especially heavy port traffic, to be
diverted from the central business area of Limassol.
Vehicle Testing and Examination Equipment
3.06      In May 1980, the Council of Ministers approved appropriate poli-
cies on vehicle controls (para. 1.12). To ensure compliance with these
policies and to promote driving safety, the Goverment has decided to
operate four vehicle inspection centers at Nicosia, Limassol, Larnaca and
Paphos.  The project would help finance the equipment for these centers
(Annex 4) estimated at about US$0.5 million. During loan negotiations, the
Government and the Bank reviewed and agreed the list of equipment (Annex 4)
to be purchased through ICB, and a time schedule for such procurement and
the Government agreed that the present inspectorate staff of about 20 would
be increased during 1983/84 so that there would be sufficient staff to
ensure the full utilization of inspections and testing equipment after its
procurement and installation in the vehicle examination centers.
Technical Assistance
3.07      To assist the PWD in implementing the project, technical assist-
ance will be provided for highway construction supervision and project
coordination. Technical assistance will also be provided to refine the
program for the periodic maintenance and minor improvement of arterial
roads (para. 3.09), and to help Government agencies with improved traffic
management and coordination of rural bus services (para. 2.04). Appro-
priate technical assistance will be provided mostly, if not entirely, by
individuals selected under specific terms of reference and on conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The Government has a well-developed system of
direct hire of experts from abroad. Approximately 60 man-months of consul-
tants services would be involved. The estimated foreign costs of such
technical assistance would be about US$0.4 million which would cover 80% of
individual's fees, international travel and local allowances at about
US$9,000 per man-month (see para. 3.13).
Training
3.08      As in the two previous highway projects, training will be provided
for PWD and Department of Inland Transport staff to ensure orderly imple-
mentation of the project and so that the work programs developed can be
continued after the project is completed. The training will consist of



-11-
short-term courses (Annex 5) on technical and operational aspects of the
project at the Higher Technical Institute of Nicosia and overseas. Over-
seas and local training would constitute project components although only
the foreign costs of overseas training would be eligible for Bank financ-
ing. The estimated foreign costs of the overseas training would be about
US$0.2 million which would include about 160 man-months covering individ-
ual's training fees, international travel and overseas subsistence allow-
ances at about UStl,250 per man-month. During loan negotiations the
details of the training program were discussed further with the Govern-
ment and necessary assurances were obtained.
Highway Maintenance
3.09     The maintenance allocation for main roads was increased from about
US$50O in 1979 to about US$1,000 per km in 1980 (Tables 1 and 3). The
Government has agreed that highway maintenance efforts should be stepped
up, has already made budget provisions of CE 850,000 (about US$2 million)
for the roads maintained by the PWD for the financial year 1982, and this
is considered generally adequate to meet current requirements. The PWD has
prepared a five-year (1982-86) highway maintenance program based on actual
and predicted needs for the inventoried and sufficiency rated network and
has identified organizational and operational constraints within the PWD.
The program sets annual physical targets and budget estimates allowing for
full-time rather than part-time maintenance operations. However, this
program has to be curtailed to respond to the financial resources likely to
be available which has been predicted at an increase in real terms of 10% a
year to eliminate the maintenance backlog. The proposed KFAED loan would
finance the marginal amounts of extra equipment required (Annex 6) of about
US$l.2 million for increased maintenance operations related to the likely
financial resources available. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government would make available for advance Bank review
the annual work programs and the budget provisions therefor (para. 2.17),
as well as an assurance that adequate funds would be made available to
implement the annual plans. Furthermore, the list of equipment (Annex 6)
to be purchased on a time schedule through procedures satisfactory to KFAED
was discussed, reviewed and agreed with the Government.
D. Engineering
3.10     The first year's program of rural road improvements was engineered
under the Second Highway Project (Loan 1344-CY) by consultants (Wallace
Evans & Partners, Martin Voorhees Associates (WEV) joint venture-UK) and by
PWD with the assistance of WEV. The engineering satisfactorily details the
widening of formation widths and pavements to 3.5 and 5.5 meters, pavement
reconstruction and improvements to horizontal and vertical geometry required
for improved vehicle operations between rural areas and urban nodes. The
second and third years' programs will be engineered by PWD with assistance
from consultants as required and under the control of the Project Unit
(para. 2.07).



-12-
3.11     Engineering for the divided Limassol Bypass was carried out by
consultants (Louis Berger Inc. - USA) in 1977 under the First Highway
Project (Loan 904-CY) in accordance with the design standards of Table 6.
This was reviewed and updated under the Second Highway Project
(Loan 1344-CY) by WEV who also assisted the PWD with the design to two-lane
standards of the Ypsonas link to the Paphos road. Since the economic
evaluation (see para 4.10) reveals that, as a first phase, only the first
two-lanes of the bypass should be constructed for opening in 1985, the con-
tract will contain appropriate drawings extracted from the complete four-
lane design. The design treatment for intersections between the bypass and
the Limassol peri-urban roads is by traffic circles of appropriate geometry
to accommodate the traffic levels expected during the period until the
second two-lanes will have to be built, probably in 1990-95.



-13-
E. Cost Estimates
3.12     The estimated cost of the project is:
Table 3.1 - Project Cost Estimates
% Foreign
CE Million                US$ Million       Exchange
Project Element               Foreign  Local  Total I Foreign  Local  Total  Component
A.  Construction
1.  Rural Road Improve-
ment (200 km)                4.3    6.5    10.8 |   10.0    15.0   25.0         40
2.  Limassol Bypass and
Ypsonas-Erimi Link (19km)  1.1    2.1        3.2 j    2.5       4.9    7.4      33
3.  Vehicle Examination                               I
Equipment                    0.2    -        0.2       0.5      -       0.5    100
4.  Technical Assistance         0.2    -         0.2 I    0.4      0.1    0.5       80
5.  Training of MCW Staff        0.1    -         0.1 I    0.2      0.1    0.3       67
6.  Highway Maintenance
Equipment                    0.5    -        0.5 I    1.2       -       1.2    100
Base Costs:                  6.4    8.6    15.0 I   14.8    20.1   34.9         42
7.  Physical Contingencies
10%                          0.6    1.9      1.5 I    1.5       2.0    3.5
8.  Price Escalation             1.7    2.5       4.2      4.0      5.8    9.8
9.  Front End Fee on Bank Loan 0.1    ---         0.1 |    0.2      ---    0.2
TOTAL COSTS                 8.8   12.0    20.8 |   20.5    27.9   48.4         42
Based on the following:
(i) October 1981 prices with total price escalation at 25.5% of total
Basic Cost plus Physical Contingencies; foreign and local price
escalation has been estimated at 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982 and
7.5% thereafter
(ii) Exchange rate of C£=US$2.32.
(iii)  The project cost includes about $2.4 million local taxes.



-14-
3.13     Construction cost estimates are based on quantities from the final
engineering design and on unit rates derived from cost factor inputs and
from other current construction contracts. Consulting services cost esti-
mates are based on the estimated man-months required and consultants rates
applicable to late 1981; the average man-months rate for consultant ser-
vices are estimated to be US$8,000 (including social costs, overheads and
fee, and overseas allowance). To this must be added about US$400 average
per month for travel costs to and from home office and about CE 250 per
month (approximately US$600) for local allowance.
3.14     Price escalation of the foreign and local exchange components has
been calculated using annual escalations of 9% (1981), 8.5% (1982) and 7.5%
(1983-86). A 10% physical contingency has been included to allow for
unforeseen quantity increases. During negotiations the project cost esti-
mates were discussed and confirmed with the Government.
3.15     The foreign exchange component of the Limassol Bypass and Ypsonas-
Erimi Link construction is estimated to be about 50% if executed by a
foreign contractor not now in Cyprus and about 33% if a local contractor,
or a foreign contractor currently mobilized in Cyprus, carries out the
work; this lower percentage has been adopted for estimating the foreign
exchange component considering that the bid is likely to be won by a local
or a locally-mobilized contractor. The foreign exchange component for the
rural road improvement program is estimated to be 40% since imported
bitumen accounts for a proportionally higher share of the construction cost
than in new construction and considering that the award of contract for
small stretches of rural roads spread all over the country to local
contractors is most probable.
3.16     The 80% foreign exchange component for technical assistance refers
to the foreign costs of 60 man-months of support by foreign consultants
(para. 3.07) based on the foreign costs of supervision, feasibility studies
and detailed engineering carried out under the Second Highway Project.
3.17     The data used in the preparation of the project and the source
material are listed in Annex 7.
F. Financing
3.18     The Borrower would be the Republic of Cyprus.  The proposed Bank
loan of US$12.2 million would finance about 60% of the foreign exchange
component, or about 25% of the total cost. The balance of US$8.3 million
or 40% of the foreign exchange component would require co-financing. The
KFAED has agreed to a Government request for parallel co-financing and
KFAED expect to appraise the project in April/May 1982. The Bank and KFAED
would each finance separate, economically self-reliant project components
as shown in Table 3.2.



-15-
3.19     The Government has given its assurance that any foreign exchange
shortfall and all local costs including possible cost overruns would be met
directly by the Government.
3.20     The financing plan agreed between the Government, KFAED and the
Bank is shown in Table 3.2 (page 16).
G. Project Execution, Supervision and Reporting
3.21     The PWD, assisted by consultants, would be responsible for project
execution through a Project Unit under the direction of the Director of PWD
(paras 2.07, 3.10 and Annex 3). Since it is essential that the preparation
of the second year program of rural road improvements should start in late
1982, the key personnel of the Project Unit should be assigned by the end
of the third quarter of 1982, when the loan is expected to become effec-
tive. Therefore, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the
Project Unit will be established with the responsibility to bring forward
sound sub-projects for the second and third tranches of the rural road
improvement program in a timely manner and to implement and monitor the
entire project including the first-year construction program. This Unit
will particularly ensure that for each sub-project requiring Bank assist-
ance substantially completed detailed engineering, together with contract
drawings, bid documents including specifications, and the economic via-
bility analyses based on updated traffic flows (para. 4.09 and Annex 11)
are made available for the review and agreement by the Bank and KFAED
before loan funds are committed for their implementation. Reporting to the
Bank and the co-financiers on progress of construction and other technical
studies will be bi-monthly. The Project Unit will also prepare the Project
Completion Report in due course. During loan negotiations, the Government
agreed that it would inform the Bank of their nominations and appointments
of the Project Unit Coordinator and the nine functionaries for the four
activities of new road construction, road maintenance, technical assistance
and administration, and that following the concurrence of the Bank to the
nominations and appointments, this condition of loan effectiveness would
have been met.



Table 3.2 - Estimated Project Cost Summary and Preliminary Financing Plan
% Foreign
Ci Million                                  US$ million                     Exchange
Item  Project Component                    Govt.    IBRD    Co-financier  Total  I Govt.    IBRD    Co-financier   Total    Component
1.    Rural Road Improvement (200 km)    6.5          3.3         1.0         10.8  | 15.0       7.6         2.4*         25.0         40
2.    Limassol Bypass (10 km) and                                                    l
Ypsonas-Erimi Link (9 kin)          2.1       -           1.1         3.2      4.9        -          2.5           7.4         33
3.    Vehicle Examination Equipment          -        0.2         -            0.2       - -     0.5         -              0.5        100
4.    Technical Assistance                   -        0.2         -            0.2      0.1       0.4         -             0.5         80
5.    Training of MCW staff                  -        0.1         -            0.1  I  0.1       0.2         -              0.3         67
6.    Highway Maintenance Equipment          -         -          0.5          0.5       -         -          1.2           1.2        100
Base cost (CZ. & US$)               8.6      3.8         2.6         15.0I 20.1          8.7         6.1          34.9         42
7.    Physical contingencies (10%)          0.9       0.4         0.3          1.5J  2.0         0.9         0.6            3.5
8.    Price Escalation                      2.5       1.0         0,.6         4.2  I5.8         2.4          1.6           9.8
9.    Front End Fee on Bank Loan            ---       0.1         ---          0.1  I---         0.2         ---            0.2        100
Total Cost (C£ & US$)              12.0      5.3         3.5         20.8    27.9       12.2         8.3          48.4         42
Based on the following:
(i) October 1981 prices with total price escalation at 25.5% of base cost + physical contingencies;
(ii) Exchange rate C£1 = US$2.32.
(iii) The project cost includes US$2.4 million local taxes.
*Represents foreign costs of approximately 50 km of rural road improvements.
November 1981



-17-
H. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.22     For the construction works, unit price contracts would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" or KFAED procurement procedures as appropriate.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that the civil works for rural
road improvement sub-components would be geographically grouped into
contracts of varying physical and financial sizes; for example, in the
first-year program, six individual contracts would range from 6 to 13 km,
US$0.6 to US$1.7 million, totalling 56 km and US$7 million. Contractors
would be permitted to bid for one or more contracts according to their
prequalified status so that the Government could possibly derive advantage
either from the economics of scale which might arrive from an aggregated
bid or from individual bids for each sub-component. Works are expected to
start in late 1982/early 1983 and be completed by late 1986. All bidding
packages for civil works estimated to cost over US$1.0 million equivalent
and bidding packages for goods over US$100,000 equivalent would be subject
to the Bank's and KFAED's prior review of procurement documentation
resulting in a coverage of about 75% of the total estimated value of works
contracts and about 60% of goods contracts. The balance of contracts would
be provided to the Bank after contract award and would be subject to random
post review by the Bank.
3.23     Specialized equipment for vehicle testing and examination centers
would be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement."
3.24     Consulting services would be provided by qualified and experienced
consultants selected in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers". Assurances on these points were
obtained during loan negotiations. The consulting services are expected to
start about late 1982/early 1983 and be completed by mid-1985.
Project Implementation Schedule
3.25     The project implementation schedule shown in Annex 8 was discussed
and confirmed with the Government at loan negotiations. It takes into
account the expected timing at which the Nicosia-Limassol road will be
completed to avoid a significant bulge in budget appropriations for the
construction of main highways. The schedule also allows for a possible
spill-over of rural road works to be started in the third year of the
program into the fourth year.
Land Acquisition
3.26     The Government has the legal powers to expropriate right-of-way
required for roads and to restrict access to any new alignment; therefore,
right-of-way issues should not impede construction. In fact, the MCW has



-13-
already received authority to occupy most of the land required by the
project roads and only the acquisition of minor supplementary areas to
accommodate at-grade intersections on the Limassol Bypass and Ypsonas-Erimi
link remains to be completed. During loan negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that it would make available all right-of-way
as needed for the timely implementation of the project.
Disbursement
3.27     Disbursements will be made on the basis of:
(i) 40% of the cost of the construction works for the rural road
improvement program, representing the estimated foreign
exchange component;
(ii) the actual foreign exchange costs of vehicle examination
equipment, consultants' services and training of MCW staff.
3.28     Assuming the loan becomes effective within six months after it has
been signed, a schedule of disbursements has been prepared and is shown in
Annex 9. The disbursement period of about five-and-a-half years, assuming
loan signing mid-1982, is somewhat shorter than for the average highway
project, but is reasonable considering that the bid preparation is already
well advanced and that the construction of the rural roads is simple should
not cause any undue delays. This schedule was discussed and confirmed with
the Government during loan negotiations.
I. Accounting Systems and Auditing
3.29     Public administration, accounting, financial control and auditing
procedures are well established in Cyprus (Annex 10) and are consistent
with those in other developed countries. The Accountant General is respon-
sible for the management and supervision of all accounting operations and
for the receipt and disbursement of revenues. He has appropriate powers of
delegation of his powers, functions and duties. The Auditor-General is an
authority entirely independent of the Government and is acceptable to the
Bank for the purpose of auditing the project expenditures and reporting
thereon. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that separate accounts for all project components will be kept by PWD and
the form of statement of expenditures and of the audit report thereon was
discussed and agreed during loan negotiations. The Loan Agreement includes
a covenant requiring an annual statement of expenditures on the project
duly audited and the audit report thereon, not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.



-19-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     The Bank's first two highway projects concentrated mainly on
improving discrete sections of arterial highways where the requirements of
the traffic have been more pressing. The proposed Limassol Bypass will
provide an urgent link between the Nicosia-Limassol highway and the
Limassol port and thereby complete this first phase of main highway con-
struction. The rural road improvement program included in the proposed
project would now ensure that due attention is given to urgently needed
investments in regional and secondary roads, which are essential for the
lesser developed areas to participate fully in the economic and social
development of the country.
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02     The important commodities that would be affected by the improved
roads and the new bypass are agricultural produce, fruits and vegetables,
construction materials, timber products and import/export of general
cargo. The proposed project would relieve traffic congestion on Limassol
city streets by diverting port, as well as through, traffic to the bypass
and also provide improved road connections between several commercial
growing centers as well as better accessibility of some remote areas,
besides stimulating tourism development.
4.03     The immediate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be road
users who, due to the diversity of traffic using the road network, come
from a wide range of sectors and income groups. The proposed project will
benefit long distance as well as local traffic. Because transport enter-
prises are keenly competitive and generally well managed, it is expected
that the benefits of the project, initially accruing to truckers and other
intermediaries, would be passed on gradually to producers and consumers.
4.04     MCW would derive the benefits from overseas and local training of
selected members of its staff and the proposed vehicle regulation/inspec-
tion centers would stimulate institution building and promote road safety.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.05     The economic evaluation of the different subprojects is based on
the feasibility studies and economic analyses undertaken by the Consultants
(WEV). These studies were reviewed and discussed with the concerned
agencies and a number of marginal sub-projects were either reformulated or
postponed as a result of the review.
4.06     In order to encourage systematic development of rural road
improvements, an inventory of about 1900 km of existing secondary and
tertiary road network was prepared by the Government. This network



-20-
consists of about 1400 km of paved and 500 km of urpaved roads. The
inventory includes an assessment of the conditions and capacity of indivi-
dual links and of their utilization in terms of traffic flows. The traffic
projections for the different subsections are based on past trends, recent
origin-destination studies and planned increases in production a..d consump-
tion in the zones of influence. Based on betterment costs, existing
traffic, projected traffic growth and user benefits, including the likely
impact of improvement in accessibility, a program of about 200 km of rural
road improvements over a period of about three years (L283-85) has been
identified. From the results of the studies and field ils?ection, a rural
road improvement program of about 56.5 km (Table 7) has 'een inclided as
the first year of this improvement program on an economic priority basis.
4.07     Quantified benefits due to the proposed p,roject would result
mainly from avoided extra highway maintenance rists and reduced vehicle
operating costs. For road sections where traffic congestion will be
relieved or where significant improvement of speed is likely from widening
narrow rural roads, the economic analysis takes into account savings in
passenger travel time.!/ Savings in transport coists, excluding passenger
time savings, account for about 75 to 80% of the total benefits on most of
the rural roads. In the case of Limassol Bypass, benefits due to time
savings account for about 60 to 70% of the total benefits. Benefits due to
increased comfort, convenience, environmental improvements and safety have
not been quantified.
4.08     In selecting the proposed investments, several alternative solu-
tions were evaluated such as improving or reconstructing the existing road,
widening the existing road, construction of the ultimate four lanes of the
bypass by stages, etc. For each project section, the most economic solu-
tion has been adopted.
Economic Return
4.09     Based on estimates of construction and maintenance costs, operat-
ing and time costs, the proposed investments on the first tranche (about
56.5 km) of rural road improvement program produce economic returns (ERs)
ranging from 12-25% (Table 7). All investments would yield first-year
benefits of 10% or more. The weighted average ER of the first tranche of
rural road components is 16%. The roads to be improved in the second and
third years would be prepared in accordance with agreed criteria and an
agreed methodology (Annex 11).  They would be submitted for review and
approval for Bank and KFAED financing and would have to be technically and
economically viable, yielding a rate of return of not less than 12%.
1/ To take social overhead and indirect costs into account, time savings
for business trips were valued at 1.1 times the average hourly wage
rate of travellers and at 0.25 the average wage rates for other
journeys.



-21-
4.10     The economic evaluation shows that with respect to the Limassol
Bypass, only the first two lanes of the eventual four-lane carriageway from
Yermasoyia to the existing four-lane undivided highway (about 10 km)
leading from Omonia to Limassol port, is justified at this stage. The
bypass should include the two-lane link road (about 9 km) via Ypsonas to
meet the existing Limassol-Paphos road east of Erimi. The estimated
average daily traffic on the different links of the bypass would vary
between 4,500 and 7,000 vehicles in 1985, when opened to traffic. The
staged construction of this sub-project will be beneficial to the economy.
The bypass itself would yield an ER of about 21%, which would improve
further to 22% (Table 7) with the addition of the two-lane Ypsonas link.
4.11     All the civil works component taken together would yield a
weighted average ER of about 17% on the assumption that the ERs of the
second and third tranches of rural roads would be of the same order as that
of the first tranche.
4.12     The above ERs understate the full economic benefits of the project
by excluding benefits arising from reductions in accidents and from envi-
ronmental improvements due to improved facilities. Sensitivity analyses
were carried out to test the effects of variations in the best estimates of
construction cost's and users' benefits. Even under the assumption of 15%
higher construction costs combined with a 15% reduction in users' benefits,
the ERs remained within the range of 10-21% for the rural roads program
included in the first tranche, with a weighted ER of 14%. On the basis of
similar sensitivity analyses, the Limassol Bypass and the Ypsonas-Erimi
link would yield ERs of about 17% and 21%, respectively with a weighted
average ER of 18%. All the civil works component taken together would
yield a weighted average ER of about 15% on the basis of the same unfavor-
able assumption. Rates of return, based on border prices, would not
significantly differ from those given in Table 7, because economic prices
largely coincide with the present market prices in Cyprus, excluding taxes,
and both cost and benefit streams would be similarly affected by border
price adjustments.
D. Other Project Elements
4.13     The training component of the program is considered as an integral
part of the program to upgrade the administration and operations of the PWD
and the Department of Inland Transport. The equipment for vehicle inspec-
tion centers is primarily safety-oriented and the procurement of highway
maintenance equipment is essential to protect the infrastructure in a cost
effective manner and eliminate the maintenance backlog (para. 3.09).
Benefits, however, could not be quantified for these project elements which
are necessary for the project as a whole and whose benefits will permeate
the entire economy.



-22-
E. Project Risks and the Environment
4.14     The PWD of the Borrower is well organized and is being further
strengthened with the establishment of a Project Unit (paras. 2.07, 3.10,
and 3.21). However, as the rural road improvement program included in this
project is the first in Cyprus to be implemented on a sectoral basis, more
intensive supervision efforts by the Bank will be called for. Some of the
project appraisal functions, such as technical and economic review of sub-
projects to ensure compliance with agreed criteria prior to financing from
the loans, must of necessity be carried out by supervision missions.
However, with the establishment of the Project Unit (para. 3.21) and the
Bank's considerable experience with the Borrowers' agencies in project
execution, no significant risks are expected in these connections.
4.15     The project is expected to have favorable environmental impact.
The Limassol Bypass, by the diversion of a substantial proportion of heavy
through traffic from the town center, is expected to reduce congestion,
accident rates, noise pollution and other attendant environmental problems
within the town.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations, understandings were reached that the
Government would inform the Bank on further progress in reforming the
system of road user charges and of vehicle weight regulation system
(paras. 1.11 and 1.12).
5.02     Also during loan negotiations, the Government confirmed:
(i) a program of training by means of study visits abroad by the
staff of PWD and Department of Inland Transport (para. 3.08);
(ii) the project cost estimates (para 3.14);
(iii) the project implementation schedule (para. 3.25); and
(iv) the schedule of estimated disbursements (para. 3.28).
5.03     At the loan negotiations, the Government agreed:
(i) that only rural road improvement sub-projects which would
yield rates of return of not less than 12% in accordance
with agreed methodology and criteria would be selected
between the Borrower and the Bank and KFAED (paras. 3.04 and
4.09).



-23-
(ii) that annual work program and budget would be made available
for review by the Bank and adequate resources will be pro-
vided promptly as needed to eliminate the backlog of road
maintenance (paras 2.17 and 3.09);
(iii) on the lists of equipment to be procured by ICB and pro-
cedures satisfactory to KFAED and a time schedule for such
procurement (paras 3.06 and 3.09);
(iv) that reporting to the Bank and the co-financiers on progress
of construction and other technical matters will be bi-
monthly and that the Project Unit will also prepare the
Project Completion Report in due course (para. 3.21);
(v) that technical assistance would be provided by qualified and
experienced consultants on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (paras. 3.07 and 3.24);
(vi) that it will provide all the funds, promptly as needed to
complete the project, including possible cost overruns
(para. 3.19);
(vii) that all land required for the project works will be
acquired as needed (para. 3.26); and
(viii) that separate accounts would be kept for the project compo-
nents and that annual financial statements on project
component expenditures and the annual audit report thereon
would be submitted not later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year (para. 3.29).
5.04     During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that as a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Project Unit will be
established with the responsibility to bring forward sound sub-projects for
the second and third tranches of the rural road improvement program in a
timely manner and to implement and monitor the entire project, including
the first-year construction program (paras. 2.07 and 3.21).
5.05     With the understandings and agreements indicated above, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.2 million to the
Republic of Cyprus for a 15-year term including a three-year grace period.



-24-
ANNEX 1
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transportation Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
Highway Projects
1.       Two loans were made for highways.  The first loan was approved in
May 1973 (Loan 904-CY - US$5.4 million) to help finance the construction of
the Nicosia-Morphou highway and access roads. Construction was interrupted
by the events of July 1974 after only one month of work, and the Bank agreed
to the Government's request for the reallocation of US$3.6 million to the
second project (Loan 1344-CY - US$10.0 million). The construction of the
Nicosia-Morphou remains suspended because of the political situation. The
second loan, which became effective on October 11, 1977, together with
co-financing from the KFAED, contributes to the financing of the Nicosia-
Limassol highway. Because of a serious liquidity crisis faced by the
contractor on the Nicosia-Limassol highway, this construction which was
expected to be completed in 1983, will now be delayed. The contract is
likely to be terminated, and under these circumstances the Government would
take over the site (probably in April 1982) and arrange for rebidding. The
Government appreciates the need for urgent action, and during loan negotia-
tions, agreed to initiate early arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and
the KFAED for completing the Nicosia-Limassol highway. Should there be any
unreasonable delays in the award of an acceptable contract, the Bank would
have to cancel the uncommitted amounts under the Second Highway Project.
Port Projects
2.       The Bank has financed two port projects.  The first loan in
May 1969 (Loan 628-CY - US$11.5 million), helped finance development of a
new deep-water port at Limassol; the project was completed in 1974. Due to
the events of 1974, consultants' recommendations for port administration,
operations and accounting procedures were not fully implemented. The second
loan (1540-CY - US$8.5 million) in April 1978 provided for expansion of port
facilities at Limassol and Larnaca as well as technical assistance for
assisting CPA to improve management and operational policies and procedures.
This loan became effective on August 14, 1978. Construction of the main
civil works contract at Limassol is behind schedule by about two years due
principally to the need for redesign to accommodate increased container
throughput and measures are being taken to improve implementation. A con-
sultant's report on CPA's management and operations has just been completed
and is under review by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank.



-25-                                                              ANNEX  2
APPRAISAL OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
CYPRUS
Organization of Public Works Department
Director
"I'
Assistant Director
Office of the Senior                      Office of the Chief                        Office of the Senior
Architect                                      Engineer                              Control Engineer
Project
Planning                  Design                     Unit        Laboratory        Suevso
Section                   Section                    (see
following
chart)
Five District Engineer's Offices
Responsible for Construction and
Maintenance of Roads and Buildings
Nicosia
Limassol
Famagusta
Larnaca
Paphos
Roads                   Buildings                          Clerical                 Accounts
Section                 Section                            Section                  Section      |
Source: Public Works Department                                                                World Bank-16380
November 1981



CYPRUS
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
?roject Unit for Construction and Maintenance (Roads)
Director
PWD
Coordinator
(Senior Engineer)
|Nevv Road                                     R oa                                    Technical                                         Administratio
|  construction     l                        Maintenance      l|                       Assistance      ll                                 Amnsrto 
Design           Procurement           Supervision         Programming           Evaluation          Co                     Training            Reportng             Accounts
- Surveying         - Specifications    - Site Supervision    - Materials          - Technical          - Selection            - Lectures         - Typing             - Budgeting
- Road           - Bidding          - Implementation          Required              Feasibility      - Briefing             - Training         - Filling            - Funding
Inventories         Documents          Schedules           - Construction          Assessment        - Engagement          - Visits      |     - Inventories       - Payments
- Preliminary         of Bids          - Progress Charts         Methods           - Economic           - Liaison                                    (Office)    |     - Withdrawals
Engineering      - Cost             - Payment              - New                   Viability                                             |     - Progress          - Financial
- Final                Follow-up          Certificates           Techniques           Appraisal                                                      Reports             Control
Engineering      - Cost Control     - Taking Over          - Costing of         - Staging                                                      - Records
Cost                                   Construction           Work                                                                                Keeping
Estimates                              Record Drawings
- Land                                 - Cost Analysis
Acquisition                            Site
General                                Laboratories
Materials
Laboratory
World Bank-23411



-_27-                         ANNEX 4
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Vehicle Testing and Examination Centers
Approximate
Equipment                     Number Required             Costs
(CE in '000)
Weighbridge Machines                          4                   48
Smoke Meters                                 13                   13
Light roller brake-tester units               9                   22
Heavy roller brake-tester units               4                   32
Turning radius gauges                        13                    4
Universal headlight testers                  13                    3
Load Simulators                               4                   32
Steering radius gauges                       13                    3
Check wear testers                            4                    2
Assorted hydraulic Jacks                     13                     2
Trolley Jacks                                16                    2
Tool Kits                                    45                    9
Air Compressors                               4                   24
Various other tools                                               18
214
(or say US$0.5 million)



-28-                                      ANNEX 5
CYPRUS
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training Program
(1983 - 1985)
Average
1/                  Number of Trainees      Duration of
Level of Staff            Fields of Training                      1983    1984    1985       Training
(in months)
A. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
Senior Staff           General management, administration
and supervision of construction;
contract adm.; maintenance
planning; plant and equipment.             2        2        -         1 to 2
Middle Engineers/      Road/bridge/airport planning,
design, const. and supervision;
materials control; productivity
and costing; transport studies;
project evaluation; cost/benefit
analysis; plant and equipment; and
maintenance planning.                       6       6        6         2 or 3
Junior Engineers       Road/bridge design, const.and
supervision; materials control;
asphaltic concrete works; produc-
tivity and costing; site organiza-
tion; computer programming;
traffic management; maintenance
planning; plant and equipment.             4        4        4         3 to 4
Technical Assistants  Supervision of construction; site
organization; surveying and setting
out; materials control; asphaltic
concrete works; bridge works; earth
works; plant and equipment.                 8       8        4         2 to 3
B. INLAND TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
Senior Staff           Management and administration.              1        1       1          1 to 2
Technical              Improvement of standards and
controls.                                2        2        2         2 to 3
1/ Relates to foreign training; in addition, local training of relevant
personnel in the Inland Transport Department will be arranged by the
manufacturers/suppliers of the equipment for the Vehicle Inspection
Centers.



CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment
LIMASSOL       FAMAGUSTA        LARNACA           PAPHOS
NICOSIA DISTRICT    DISTRICT          DISTRICT        DISTRICT        DISTRICT
D E S C R I P T I 0 N                      Approx.         Approx.          Approx.         Approx.          Approx.
No.    Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost
(C£'OOO)        (C£'OOO)        (C£'000)         (CE'000)        (C£'000)
1.  Vibrating roller                      2         4      2        4       1       2       2        4       2       4
2.  Road marking machine                  1        10       1      10       -       -       1       10       1      10
3.  Asphalt pavement cutter               2         2       1       1       1        1      1        1       1       1
4.  Compactor (hand operated)             1         1       1       1       -        -      1        1       1        1
5.  Concrete mixer 10/7                   2         1       1       1       1        1      1        1       1       1
6. Compressor 250 cfm with
attachments                         2       12       2       12      1        6       1       6       1        6
7.  Bitumen distributor (2000 gall.)   1           22      -        -       -       -       -        -      -        _
8.  Water Tanker (self-propelled)         1        14      -        -       -        -      -        -       -       _
9.  Crane Truck (1-2 ton capacity)        3        60       2      40       1      20       2       40       2      40
10.  Cabin pick-up for crew                3         9       3       9       1        3      3        9       3       9
11.  Gritter Truck                         1        16       1      16       1       16      1       16       1      16
Total/District                             151               94              49               88              88
Total = C£470 thousand
(or say 0.5 million. c £)
x
M'



-30-                         ANNEX 7
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Report and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.   Third Emergency Economic Action Plan 1979-81 - Summary - Planning
Bureau, Planning Commission, Republic of Cyprus, Nicosia.
2.   Third Annual Report 1979 Cyprus Port Authority.
3.   Feasibility Study for an airport in the Paphos district Phase 3 -
Master Plan Volume 1 - Sir Frederick Snow (International Ltd) in
association with Alistair Tucker Associates and J & A Philippou,
March 1977.
4.   Annual Report of the department of Civil Aviation, 1980 -
Department of Civil Aviation, MCW
5.   Cyprus in Brief - Public Information Office, Nicosia
6.   The Cyprus Problem - Public Information Office Nicosia -Revised
Sept. 1980
7.   Motor Transport (Regulation) Law, 1964-Republic of Cyprus
8.   The Motor Vehicles and Road Traffic Law, 1972-Republic of Cyprus
9.   The Motor Vehicles and Road Traffic Regulations, 1973-Republic of
Cyprus
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Condition survey of secondary and tertiary roads - Cyprus - Martin
Voorhees Associates in joint venture with Wallace Evans and
Partners (WEV) March 1981.
.2.   Preliminary Report on the special studies in connection with the
Third Highway Project - Volume One - Draft (WEV) March 1981.
3.   Preliminary Report on the Special Studies in connection with the
Third Highway Project Volume 2 Draft (WEV) March 1981.



-31-                       ANNEX 7
4.   Third Highway Project - special studies Interim Report (WEV) May
1981.
5.   Third Highway Project Studies - Progress Report No. 5 -
Incorporating Interim Design Reports (WEV) - September 1981
6.   Limassol Traffic Study - Draft Final Report (WEV) September 1981
7.   Feasibility Study for the Improvement of the Limassol-Paphos Road
Stage 1 Report (WEV) March 1981.
8.   Report on the Proposed Five-Year Road Maintenance Plan (1982-86),
PWD September 1981.



-32-
ANNEX 8
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implemertation Schedule
ITEM                        ACTIVITY                 ACTION BY         CY1982             CY1983             CY1984              CY1985            CY1986
1. BANK LOAN      1.01  ESd of Negotiations              Govt/Bank       *
1.02   Sign Loan Agreement             Govt/Bank            *
1.03   Loan Agreenent Effective        Govt/Bank                *
1.04   Loan Cloning Date               Bank                                                                                              *
2. RURAL ROAD    2.01   Final Engineering                Govt/Cons.
IMPROVEMENT   2.02   Prepare Bid Docunents            Gt/Cs/
PROGRAMME     2.03    Acqeire   Right-of-Way          Gent         -----------------   ----------------- -----------------   -------
2.04   Advertise and Prequalify        Govt/Bank
2.05   Preparation of Bids             Cctrs
2.06   Evaleation of Bid.              Gont/Bank
2.07   Award of Contracts              Govt                            *                  *                  *
2.08   Construction                    Govt/Cctr
3. LIMASSOL       3.01   Final Engineering               Govt/Cons
BYPASS &      3.02   Prepare Bid Doc- sts             G-nt/C.
YPSONAS-       3.03   Acquire   Right-of-Way          Govt         ----------------------------------
ERIMI          3.04   Advertise and Prequalify        Govt/Bank
1   LINK      3.05   Preparation of Bids              Cctrs
3.06   Evaluation of Bids              Govt/Bank
3.07   Award of Contract               Govt                                  *
3.08   Construction                    Govt/Cctr
4. VEHICLE        4.01   Prepare Specs and Bid Decs.   Goet/Con.
EXAMINATION   4.02   Advertisement                    Govt
EQUIPMENT     4.03   Prepare Bids                     Suppliers
4.04   Evaluation of Bids              Gent/Bank
4.05   Awards of Cont-acts             Govt                             *
4.06   Supply of Eqoip-ent             Suppliers
5. TECHNICAL      5.01   Prepare TOR                     Govt/Bank   _
ASSISTANCE    5.02   Prepare Proposals                Cons
5.03   Evaluation of Proposals         Govt/Bank
& Award/Recruit
5.04   Eecution of Services            Cons
5.05   Review Reconmendations          Govt/Bank
6. TRAINING OF   6.01   Select Cous-es                   Govt/Bank
MCW STAFF      6.02   Select Traineeo                 Govt
6.03   Trainees Attendance             Trainees
7. HIGHWAY        7.01   Prepare Specs & Bid Deco.       Govt/Bank   _                                                         l
MTCE STAFF    7.02   Advertisenest                    Govt
EQUIPMENT      7.03   Preparation of Bids             Suppliers
7.04   Evaluation of Bids              Goet/BaRk
7.05   Awards of C-ntracts             Gent                             0
7.06   Supply of Equipment             Suppliers
1265D



-33-                            ANNEX 9
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                         Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                               at End of Quarter
FY83
June 30, 1983                                      0.2
FY84
September 30, 1983                                 0.8
December 31, 1983                                  2.2
March 31, 1984                                     3.6
June 30, 1984                                      4.7
FY85
September 30, 1984                                 5.2
December 31, 1984                                  5.8
March 31, 1985                                     6.4
June 30, 1985                                      6.9
FY86
September 30, 1985                                 7.5
December 31, 1985                                  8.1
March 31, 1986                                     8.6
June 30, 1986                                      9.4
FY87
September 30, 1986                                10.3
December 31, 1986                                 11.3
March 31, 1987                                    12.2
June 30, 1987                                     12.2
Source: Mission estimates, October 1981.



-34-                          ANNEX 10
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Accounting Systems and Auditing
A. General
1.       Recurrent and Capital Development Budgets are prepared in April of
each year for the ensuing fiscal year (January 1 to December 31) for con-
sideration, review and revision by a Budget Committee composed of all the
interested parties. The budgets are thereafter submitted to the Council of
Ministers for approval and finally for adoption by the House of Represen-
tatives. Once adopted, no amendments can be made.
2.       In the event that Budgets are not approved and adopted by January 1
in any year, up to one-twelfth of the proposed expenditures under the
various heads and sub-heads of account can be made through the issue of a
general warrant by the Ministry of Finance to the Accountant-General. There
can, however, be no expenditure on new projects.
3.       Departmental Heads have overall responsibility for all financial
matters connected with their departments. An efficient system for control-
ling, receipts and expenditures and for the safe custody of cash and stores
is in operation.
B. Accounting in the Public Works Department
4.       The overall responsibility for accounting and financial control in
the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW) is vested in the Accountant,
a member of the Accountant-General's staff who is professionally qualified
and fully experienced.
5.       The PWD accounting section has a staff of nine, headed by an
Accounting Officer who is directly responsible to the Accountant. It is the
duty of the Accounting Officer:
(i) to ensure that all financial and accounting instructions are duly
observed;
(ii) to make himself acquainted with the provisions of laws,
regulations, orders or instructions that are relevant to his duties;
(iii)  to see that proper safeguards exist for the safekeeping of public
monies, stamps securities, receipt forms and other assets;



-35-
ANNEX 10
(iv)  to produce any documents, books of account, and registers required
for inspection by the Treasury and the Auditor-General;
(v)  to ensure that revenue is duly and punctually collected, and
properly brought to account under proper heads and sub-heads;
(vi)  to see that all payments effected are authorized in accordance
with existing regulations or instructions and are charged to the
appropriate heads and sub-heads; and
(vii) to ensure that no excess is incurred over and above the approved
provision and to refer any improper or irregular payment to the
Accountant-General with a copy to the Auditor-General.
6.   The Accounting Officer and his staff in the PWD are competent and fully
cognizant of their duties and responsiblities. The accounting system is
computerized but manual records are kept to facilitate tracing and verifying
approved expenditures in the Recurrent and Capital Budgets. Monthly
expenditures on the computer print-out are checked with manual records and
any discrepancies agreed with the Ministry of Finance. Monthly Payment
certificates for work done by contract requires five signatures, including
that of the Chief Engineer and the Director of PWD.
7.   The continual review of methods and introduction of improvements
undertaken by the Accountant General results in adequate recording and
control. No payments can be made unless properly authorized and certified.
Signatures requested include the Director (Departmental Head), Internal
Audit and the Accountant (MCW).
C. Auditing Procedures
8.   The constitutional provisions regarding the functions of the
Auditor-General envisage that he has to examine the activities and transac-
tions of the Ministries, Departments or bodies concerned in order to satisfy
himself that:
(i)  all reasonable precautions are taken to safeguard the collection
of public moneys;
(ii)  all revenues are collected in accordance with the laws,
regulations or other directives; and directions or instructions
relating thereto are observed;
(iii)  all expenditures are properly incurred;
(iv)  all sums appropriated are spent for the service and purposes for
which they have been approved; and
(v)  all assets are being properly maintained, and their existence
verified.



-36-
ANNEX 10
9.       The change in the economic development of Cyprus and the growth in
the size and complexity of Government and Statutory bodies activities have
necessitated a change in the scope of audit. Whereas the primary task of
the Auditor-General has been to carry out regularity audits, it is now
extended to the operational or administrative sector. This change conforms
with the national and international demands of applying modern audit
techniques.
10.      As a consequence of the changes and growth referred to in para. 9
above, the Auditor-General carries out well-programmed sample auditing with
greater emphasis on the examination of the scope and efficiency of internal
control procedures. Test audit techniques have been developed and applied
satisfactorily.
11.      The audit of Capital Projects on a test check basis is carried out
by technically qualified and experienced staff. This audit verifies that
projects have been planned, designed and executed satisfactorily through the
examination, inter alia, of feasibility studies, technical specifications
and drawings, the budgeted expenditures and final cost estimates and
procedures for inviting and awarding tenders.
12.      A new organization structure was introduced on January 1, 1980, to
increase audit efficiency and to direct the orientation of audit office
tasks towards the administrative and economic fields. This objective is in
line with the requirements of the House of Representatives, the recommenda-
tions of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions and
the Commonwealth Auditors-General Conferences.
13.      The Auditor-General has a total staff of 80.  The quality and
caliber of the staff augurs well for the achievement of the targets and
goals of the reorganization. There is also a training scheme covering the
needs of Junior and Senior staff with lecturers drawn from within the audit
office and from other sources.
14.      Auditing of all transactions in the PWD is carried out by a Section
of the Auditor-General's staff located permanently in the department and
consists of four audit clerks under the direction of an accountant
technician. The Auditor-General has also strengthened the operational
aspect of the audit of capital projects by having an internal control
section set up in the PWD directly responsible to the MCW to oversee the
works carried out and in particular the on-going Second Highway Project
(Nicosia/Limassol Highway).
15.      The internal audit function is carried out by the Internal Audit
Division in the Treasury which carries out on the spot checks in every
department and on every project, and checks clerical work, vouchers and
controls and verifies stock.



-37-
ANNEX 11
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rural Road Improvement Program
1.       Under sector lending, as explained in CPM 8.3, "Highway Sector
Lending" the Bank accepts that it is neither possible nor necessary for
rates of return to be calculated at appraisal for all the sub-projects in
the rural road improvement program 1983-85 based on detailed feasibility and
economic studies. Indeed, for projects consisting of a multi-year time
slice of a relatively homogeneous investment program like the proposed rural
road improvement program, economic justification and completion of the
necessary engineering for the first year's program should be sufficient to
start construction and provide also an adequate basis for the cost estimate
of the project. Further engineering for works with adequate economic justi-
fication to be carried out in subsequent years would be done sequentially
(para. 5c, OMS No. 2.28, October 1978). Road improvement proposals for the
first year of the proposed project are based on the following broad con-
siderations (paras. 2 and 3 below) and the Borrower has prepared for each of
the proposed sub-projects an evaluation sheet on which the key technical,
design, cost, traffic and economic information is summarized (enclosure).
This information will be updated from time to time for sub-projects to be
selected in subsequent tranches to enable review of project scope on the
rolling plan basis.
Strengthening Widening of existing paved roads
2.        (i)  Strengthening - Many of the secondary roads are being sub-
jected to heavier axle loads, and in many cases heavier traffic volumes than
they were designed for, with consequent rapid pavement deterioration and
shortened life, and the risks of serious pavement failures in future.
Usually in such cases two alternative courses of action are possible
(a) applying an overlay as an immediate strengthening procedure or (b) to
completely reconstruct those sections after they fail. Economic analysis
was made on the basis that if the overlays were not applied, vehicle operat-
ing costs on the progressively deteriorating pavement would increase, and
those highway sections which would fail prematurely would require complete
reconstruction at a cost relatively higher than that of an immediate
overlay. For each project section, the most economic solution has been
adopted.
(ii) Widening - A considerable part of the existing secondary
roads have about 3 meter-wide bituminous carriageway with earth shoulders.
Consequently, vehicles must pass each other with their near-side wheels
running on the earth shoulders until the carriageway is clear again. As
traffic volumes increase, the shoulders are subjected to increased wear and



-38-
ANNEX 11
tear, and as they are not designed to pavement strength, but only to provide
lateral support to the carriageway, they cannot sustain repeated wheel loads
without intensive maintenance. Thus the benefits of widening the pavement
normally includes savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time and main-
tenance costs, and these savings have been taken into account in the
analyses. Six out of the nine road sections proposed in the first tranche
involves widening from about 3 m to 5.5 m depending on the traffic require-
ments and economic justification.
3.       The conditions and characteristics of the existing rural roads
included for improvement in the first tranche are briefly discussed below;
(i) Liopetri - Paralimni (9 km) - The existing road, with a carriageway
width of about 3.0 m, runs in a flat terrain through the village of Sotina
to the popular tourist areas of Paralimni and Ayia Napa. It serves the
adjacent highly productive potato growing areas and the average daily
traffic (ADT) in 1980 was about 1450 vehicles. The existing pavement
appears to be failing for much of its length. The road is proposed to be
improved to 5.5 m wide paved carriageway, with 1.5 m gravel shoulders. It
is probable that some of the traffic currently using the road will be
diverted to the new coastal road between Xylophagou and Ayia Napa. The
scheme was therefore evaluated assuming a 50% reduction in traffic based on
the recent 0-D study yet still yielded a satisfactory rate of return.
(ii)  Kellia-Troulli (7 km) - The existing road runs northwards from the
village of Kellia to serve the Larnaca dormitory village of Troulli and the
umber processing plant at Troulli. The ADT in 1980 was about 450 vehicles.
The existing carriageway is 2.7 m wide and is to be improved to a 5.5 m with
1.5 m shoulders. Two km horizontal and vertical realignments, with visi-
bility improvements, will improve the overall road standard to 70 km/h
design speed.
(iii) Parakklisha Road (8 km) - The existing road runs from the new
Nicosia-Limassol highway, through Parakklisha village towards Kellaki. The
3.0 m carriageway, passes through flat to hilly terrain to Parakklisha,
beyond which the terrain becomes mountainous. The ADT in 1980 was about
1000 vehicles. The main contributors to traffic on this road are three
quarries which are scheduled for significant increased production in the
coming years. Deflexion beam analysis of the existing pavement shows that
approximately one-third of its length has failed. The road is to be
improved to provide a 5.5 m wide paved carriageway with 1.0 m (min.) wide
gravel shoulders.
(iv) Ayia Phylla Road (5 km) - The existing road runs from Ayia Phylla
village to Palodhia through flat to hilly terrain. The pavement width is
approximately 3.0 m throughout. This road extends to the southern part of
Pitsillia region, a prime producer of grapes. Most farmers to the south of
Pitsillia (e.g. from Agros) send their produce to the markets, packing



-39-
ANNEX 11
houses, processing plants and wineries in Limassol. The ADT in 1980 was
about 750 vehicles. The road is to be improved to provide a 5.5 m wide
paved carriageway with 1.0 m (min) wide gravel shoulders.
(v) Kalokhorio - Gourri (6 km) - The existing road, with a 3.5 m paved
carriageway, runs through hilly to mountainous terrain. It serves several
small villages and the quarry near, Pharmacas. As part of Pitsillia
development project, ponds are planned for this area for new irrigation and
to rehabilitate some lands presently irrigated by inefficient means. The
ADT in 1980 was about 450 vehicles. The pavement is to be widened to a
5.5 m with 1.0 m gravel shoulders.
(vi) Prodromos - Platres (5 km) - The scheme is to provide the first 5 km
stage of an eventual improved link of 11 km between Prodromos and Platres.
The existing mountainous road has a paved carriageway 2.7 m wide with narrow
shoulders. This road is to be widened to provide 3.5 m carriageway which
would improve the accessibility to remote rural areas in the Troodos
mountainous region. The ADT during non-tourist season in 1980 was 150-200
vehicles with traffic significantly rising (about 3 to 4 times) during
summer and winter tourist seasons on Mount Olympus.
(vii) Kykkos - Kambos (5 km) - The existing road with a paved carriageway
of about 3.0 m wide runs through mountainous terrain to serve several
villages and forest timber extraction activites. This area is in terms of
travel time the most remote in Cyprus from a main town. The second largest
sawmill on the island is situated at Kambos. The Monastry at Kykko attracts
both tourists and residents. The ADT in 1980 was about 300 vehicles. Pro-
posed improvements are limited to overlaying the existing pavement to an
improved width of 3.5 m with nominal shoulders.
(viii) Polis - Pomos (9 km) - The existing road, with a 2.8 m paved
carriageway, runs along a flat coastal strip to Pomos. The population of
the area is concentrated in a narrow strip along the coast. The proposed
improvement up to Yialia junction forms a part of an eventual improved link
between polis and Pomos and will also serve a proposed irrigation scheme in
this area. The main crops would be out of season vegetables for export.
Presently bananas, grapes and citrus fruits form a major part of the produc-
tion. The ADT in 1980 was about 850 vehicles. The pavement is to be
widened to a 5.5 m with 1.5 m gravel shoulders.
(ix) Polemi Road (2.5 km) - The existing road, with a carriageway about
3.0 m wide, runs through a hilly area. The scheme will be the first section
of a widening improvement to Marotou Bridge, from where a scheme is in hand
to widen the road to Pano Panayia. The road serves an extensive hinterland
suitable for viticulture and eventually a proposed aggregate quarry at
Asproyia. The ADT in 1980 was about 350 vehicles. The road is to be
improved to 5.5 m pavement width with 1.0 m gravel shoulders.



-40-
Enclosure to
Annex 11
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rural Roads Improvements
Evaluation Sheet for Subproject (Example)
1.  Basic Data              Road:
Section:
Length (in km);
Cross section present:
Cross section proposed:
-Pavement proposed:
Design class:
2.  Traffic (ADT)                         Car   Truck   Bus   Total
1981:
1985:
3. Cost Estimate
(in US$ '000)
4.  Operational Cost                      Car      Truck   Bus
(per km)                            (Mils.)  (net of taxes)
Old road:
Improved road:
5.  Economic Data           FYBR
E.R.
6.  Tender                  Tentative tender date:
Completion time:
7. Technical Description (one paragraph)
8. Economic Description (one paragraph)
9. Location Map
10. Alternatives Considered



CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Revenues and Expenditures 1975-80 1/
('000 C£)
A. Revenues
I M P O R T   D U T I E S                                    T A X E S   A N D   F E E S                     A L L   R E V E N U E S
Buses             Tires                               Vehicle                                     Subtotal   Subtotal
&     Motor-      &      Vehicle      Gasoline    Licenses         Vehicle        Driving        Import      Taxes
Years       Cars   Trucks   Cycles   Tubes    Parts             Tax       (Road Tax)   Registration   Licenses          Duties       & Fees       Total
1975         652       109      26       99       194            781         2,183            281          465           1,180       3,710        4,890
1976       1,409       324      39      176       185          2,822         2,304            335          530           2,133       5,991        8,124
1977      6,195        639      77      261       307          3,780         2,549            662          627           7,479       7,618       15,097
1978      6,788    1,038       90       244       387          6,353         2,845            862          660           8,547      10,720       19,267
1979     15,280    1,059    307         332       477         8,599          3,141            935          752          17,455      13,427       30,882
1980     13,828    1,932    690         429       501         9,558          4,282          1,124          826          17,380      15,790       33,170
B. Expenditures
C O N S T R U C T I O N   &   I M P R O V E M E N T S             M A I N T E N A N C E   &   A D M I N I S T R A T I O N             GRAND
PWD        DA     Forestry       Municipal         Total        PWD        DA       Forestry        Municipal         Total         TOTAL
1975     1,450                   2,466 ---------------       3,916         284        112         25                N.A.           421         4,337
1976     1,241    ----------  2,483 ---------------          3,724         301        108         22                N.A.           431         4,155
1977     1,621    ----------  1,502 ---------------           3,123        314        107         28                N.A.           449          3,572
1978     2,065    ----------  1,035 ---------------          3,100         368        115         42                N.A.           525          3,625
1979     5,112    ----------  2,928 ---------------          8,040         394        119         31                N.A.           544          8,584
1980     5,257    ----------  4,072 ---------------          9,329         839        145         34                N.A.          1018         10,347
1/ Relates to Government-controlled southern Cyprus.
Source: Department of Customs and Excise
Department of Inland Transport
Public Works Department
(D
October 1981



-42-
Table 2
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Consumption of Gasoline and Diesel Oil - (1975-80)
(in '000 m tons)
Year                 Gasoline                   Diesel Oil I,
1975                   77.7                       108.0
1976                   80.8                       119.5
1977                   89.3                       126.6
1978                  100.4                       139.8
1979                  103.2                       149.4
1980                   99.6                       100.3   (Provisional)
1/  Share of road transport in diesel oil consumption is estimated
at about 28%; the balance of diesel oil is mainly consumed by other
sectors, namely, industry, power and agriculture.
B. Production and Imports of Oil and
Oil Products (1975-80)
(in '000 m tons)
Import of           Production of Refined Products                                 Import of Refined Products
Year    Crude Oil    Gasoline   Diesel   Other Oil Products   Total             Gasoline  Diesel  Other Oil Productsl    Total
1975       354.8          60.8       96.8           157.0            314.6        18.5       6.0            240.2              264.7
1976       394.0          75.7       97.9           182.9            356.5         8.0      34.8            206.9              249.7
1977      413.3           89.8      111.2           198.5            399.5         2.5      31.4            397.7              431.6
1978      499.1           93.2      120.1           201.0            414.3          -       15.3            351.6              366.9
1979      475.1          100.0      132.1           277.4            509.5         2.1      13.7            321.2              337.0
1980       574.8         100.8      152.9           305.6            559.3          1.9      6.8            377.3              386.0
1/ Fuel oil accounts for about 95% of the other oil products which also include kerosene, aviation fuel, and bitumen.
C. Retail Prices of Gasoline and Diesel Oil
(C£ per gallon)
Gasoline                  Diesel
Super      Regular
July 12, 1979           0.940        0.840              0.340
March 15, 1980          1.120        1.020              0.410
July 14, 1980           1.370        1.270              0.500
July 1, 1981            1.500        1.400              0.600
Note: Information relates to Government controlled southern Cyprus.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Planning Bureau
October 1981



CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network by Administration, 1975-80 1!
Kilometers
(in '000)
Forestry         Grand Total
Public Works Department    District Administration             Municipalities           Department    (All Administrations)
Year  Bitumen  Gravel   Total    Bitumen   Gravel   Total    Bitumen   Gravel   Total            Gravel    Bitumen   Gravel    Total
1975    1.4      0.1       1.5       1.2        2.9      4.1        1.0      0.5       1.5        1.7         3.6        5.2        8.8
1976    1.5      0.1       1.6       1.2        2.7      3.9        1.0      0.5       1.5        1.8         3.7        5.1        8.8
1977    i.6      0.1       1.7       1.2        2.7      3.9        1.0      0.5       1.5        1.8         3.8        5.1        8.9      V
1978    1.7      0.1       1.8       1.2        2.6      3.8        1.0      0.5       1.5        1.8         3.9        5.1        8.9
1979    1.8      0.1      1.9        1.2        2.6      3.8        1.1      0.5       1.6        1.9         4.1        5.1        9.2
1980    1.8      0.1      1.9        1.3        2.6      3.9        1.2      0.5       1.7        2.0         4.3        5.2        9.5
I/ Relates to Government controlled southern Cyprus
Source: Statistics of Motor Vehicles and Road Accidents, 1980
October 1981



-44-
Table 4
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations 1975-80
(in '000)
Vans &                          Motorcycles
Year   Cars   Taxis   Buses   Pick-ups   Trucks   Subtotal    & Others           Total
1975   64.6    1.3       1.9         9.6      4.7        82.1          ll.0       93.1
1976   67.5    1.3       1.9        10.4      4.9        86.0         11.7        97.7
1977   72.8    1.3       1.9        11.6      5.1        92.7          13.4      106.1
1978   77.7    1.3       1.5        12.8      4.4        97.7          14.2      111.9
1979   84.9    1.3       1.5        15.1      4.7       107.5          19.5      127.0
1980   88.9    1.3       1.6        18.3      5.0       115.1          31.2      146.3
1/ Relates to Government controlled southern Cyprus.
Source: Statistics of Motor Vehicles and Road Accidents 1980
October 1981



CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Width Classification
Pavement       Usual Shoulder       Range Shoulder!!
Class         Type           Width (m)         Width (m)            Width (m)           Remarks
A      Four-lane
divided 2/        2 x 7.0             3.0/1.3                 -           Outside/Inside
A      Four lanes        12.2 - 14.0              2.5             2.5 - 3.0       City streets
A      Two lanes             7.3                  2.0                 -           Now superseded
See Table 6
B      Two lanes             5.5                  2.0             1.5 - 2.0
C      Two lanes             5.5                  1.0                 -
D      Single lane        3.0 - 3.6               1.25           1.25 - 2.3
1/ Shoulder widths are varied occasionally depending on terrain.
2/ 5.0 m median
Source:  Public Works Department
October 1981
rD



-46'-                            Table 6
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for the Limassol By-Pass and Ypsonas Link
A M O U N T
I T E M                    UNIT            Rolling    Hilly
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                                        kph                100         80
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance               m                 200        130
Minimum Passing Sight Distance                m                 500        400
Desirable Horizontal Curve Radius             m                 670        450
Minimum Horizontal Curve Radius               m                 320        200
Maximum Gradient                               %                3-5        4-6
Maximum Superelevation                      (urban)%             6          6
(rural)%             8          8
Roadway Features
Width
Lane                               m                3.5
Pavement                           m                7.0
Shoulders                          m                3.0
Wearing Course                                  Asphaltic Concrete
Pavement Design                                 AASHTO/TRRL Road Note 29
Bridge Design Standard                          AASHTO HS20-44
Source: Public Works Department
Ministry of Communications & Works
October 1981



-47-
Table 7
CYPRUS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns (ERs) and First Year Returns (FYRs)
Percentage5/   Most       SENSITIVITY ANALYSES        Most
Project              Distance    of Total    Probable    Lower 1/    Higher 2/  Probable
Component               in km       Project         ER       Estimate    Estimate          FYR
1. Rural Road Betterment
(i)  Liopetri-                 9.0        13.8            25          21           29           16
Paralimni
(ii)  Kellia-Troulli            7.0         8.4            16          14           18           13
(iii)  Parakklisha Road          8.0        16.3            17          15           19           14
(iv)  Ayia Phylla Road          5.0         8.5            15          13           17           12
(v)  Kalokhorio-Gourri         6.0        11.6            12          10           14           10
(vi)  Prodromos-Platres         5.0        12.6            12          10           14           10
(vii)  Kykkos-Kambos             5.0         9.7            12          10           14           10
(viii)  Polis-Pomos                9.0        13.8           17          15           19           14
(ix)  Polemi Road               2.5         5.3            14          12           16           11
Sub-total               56.5       100.0           16 3/       14 3/        18 3/         13 3/
2. (i) Limassol bypass
(2-lane)                  10.0        78.4           21          17           25            15
(ii) Ypsonas-Erimi link
(2-lane) in addition
to Limassol bypass
(2-lane)                   6.0        21.6           27          21           33            17
Sub-total               16.0       100.0           22 4/       18 4/        26 4/         16 4/
1/ Assumes 15 percent increase in construction costs combined with 15 percent decrease in benefits.
2/ Assumes 15 percent decrease in construction costs combined 15 percent increase in benefits.
3/ Weighted average of rural road components.
4/ Weighted average of Limassol By-pass including Ypsonas-Erimi link.
5/ For rural road betterment, the percentage relates to total costs
of the first year's program.
Source: WEV Feasibility Studies and Mission estimates.
November 1981



I



33 00                                             33'30''                                            34'00'                                            34'30'
lGREECE   )          ~~T U R K E YCYPRUS
(  TURKEY                                                             ~~~~CYPRUS
GREECE
THIRD  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                                                                        _kokoo
"SYRIANIII'LRioops
CYPRUS    Nuoa         ARABEP
REP
LEBANONW          -Z                                                                                                                                           Gr
ISRAELI    0
LIBYA                                      6     <AD
ARAB REP OF EGYPT                                                                                                                                             K
'32'30'                   'f.1
opt  _                                                                                       /05  to
Dh.o,,.,                         )                                                 X%
C   s  Asho~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rural Roods Improve.ents
/.t'I' keravos!al.(F.rst Year Program)
5,                                                                                                                    - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~' FMGSAHard Surface Roods, 2 or eore laces
a/r ^  ; <71                                                                       FAMAGUSTA \  tr                Hord Surfoce Roods, 1 lone
al'a P/e~,ou, NonnFs  (  rJ- XIcJt S    p                                                    ,P                                                                                     uP
Ko.b. ,,N,Yes,akiimassol NRoadro - L s   R  |1344 CY)
Is _' rul                                                                                                                                                       Par mn )nhosXol Poto (62 0CY  1540-CY)
Maior Cities
Kyl, (   g   ,   , \   4         _                         {   Vosil  /                                                                                                  KILOMETERXylophogoN
omo  palpkLm                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Parts
Pc- Pana                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Salt Lakes
y i  em,    A        S SOl   e.. a                       hmakas          P.-,------ Sme,ergn Base Areao Boudaes
Pmrese- Neet Cease- -fire Line
PAPHOS         o32,3 ,l                                                   i                           ,               33',30                                             34                                               20   25
K,                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
irmn-nrii,iiic  uhtrpemadechlt
rvrup,iihacvr - errcue
32'30'  33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)Q'                 33,30                                               347~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             34~~~un   inn,30 ad',dri



