Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3230-BU
BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT NGOZI III PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 14, 1981
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              -  Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00                    -  FBu 90
FBu                        -  US$0.011
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                           British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                      3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )                               35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares                        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2                         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )                         0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                      0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal.)
1 ton (metric ton)                               2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BNDE      -    Banque National de Developpement Economique
(National Economic Development Bank)
BCC       -    Burundi Coffee Company
COGERCO   -    Caisse de Gerance et de Reserve Cotonniere
(Cotton Management and Reserve Fund)
EPA       -    Ecole Professionnelle Agricole
(Agricultural Vocational School)
FAC       -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FECOBU    -    Federation des Cooperatives Populaires du Burundi
(Burundi Federation of Peasants' Cooperatives)
FED       -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(European Development Fund)
ICO       -    International Coffee Organization
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ISABU     -    Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agricultural Science)
ITAB      -    Institut des Techniques Agricoles du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agronomy)
OCIBU     -    Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Burundi Industrial Crop Development Office)
ONB       -    Office National du Bois
(National Office for Wood and Wood Products)
OTB       -    Office National du The
(National Tea Office)
RDC       -    Rural Development Company
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
*                                 FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi:  January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT/NGOZI III PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ................................................    1
A.   Project Background ......     ......................1....... 
B.   Sector Background ......     .......................         2
C.   Government Services ......     ............................   10
D.   Development Problems and Government Plans ............  14
II.   THE FIRST TWO COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS ....        .............  15
A.   Burundi Arabica Coffee Improvement Project (Cr. 147-BU)  15
B.   Second Coffee Improvement Project (Cr. 593-BU) .......  17
III.   PROJECT AREA    ...................... ........................   18
A.   Location and Physical Characteristics ....       ............  18
B.   Population, Land Use and Land Tenure .....       ............  19
C.   Socio-cultural Aspects .......       ........................   20
D.   Rural Institutions ........       ...........................  21
E.   Production Systems, Marketing, Processing and Prices .   22
F.   On-going Project Activities in the Project Area ......  22
IV.   THE PROJECT ................................                     23
A.   General Description ................................    23
B.   Detailed Features ................................   24
C.   Project Costs .............       ...................   31
D.  Financing ........          ........................   32
E.   Procurement ..........        ......................   33
F.   Disbursements ............       ....................   34
G.   Accounts and Audits ................................    35
H.   Environmental Impact ................................   35
This Report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission to Burundi in
July-August 1980, composed of B. Mbida-Essama, J. C. Salle (IDA, Washington),
C. F. Marshall and J. L. Unger (Consultants). N. R. Brouard (IDA) visited
Burundi in September-October 1980 to review the erosion control and forestry
components. J.-C. Salle held post-appraisal discussions in November-December
1980 with the participation of J. Chevallier (Resident Mission, Burundi).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....... 35
A.  Organization and Staff ....... ..............................  35
B.  Management of Project Components ...   ...................  37
C.  Project Implementation Schedule ......   ................  39
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ............................  40
VI.  TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS     ..........................  41
VII.  MARKETS AND PRICES ..............*........*.................  45
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................  47
IX.  GOVERNMENT BENEFITS .........................................  50
X.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...................  51
SuRporting Tables and Charts
Table 1  -  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2  -  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table 3  - Proposed Staffing
Table 4  -  Economic Analysis
Table 5  -  Government Cash Flow
Table 5a -  Regional Development Company:  Cash Flow
Table 6  - Project Implementation Schedule
Table 7  - Project Preparation Facility
Annex 1  - Annual Work Plan
Annex 2  - Farm Cash Flow
Chart 1  -  Organization Chart of Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Chart 2  - Organization Chart of Ministry of Rural Development
Chart 3  -  Organization Chart of the RDC
MAPS
Location of Project Area - IBRD 15322
Project Area - IBRD 15323
Coffee Growing Area - IBRD 15324
Material Available in Project File
1.  Summary Project Cost Tables
2.  Detailed Project Cost Tables
3.  Coffee Marketing in Burundi
4.  Foodcrop Development Program Details
5.  Coffee Development Program Details
6.  Pilot Swamp Development Program Details
7.  Economic Analysis Assumptions:
- Washing Stations
- Foodcrop Development
- Coffee Development
8.  Annual Reports of OCIBU and BCC
9.  Project Preparation Report by SOMEBU



BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT/NGOZI III PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background
1.01      The first Bank Group supported agricultural project in Burundi was a
cDffee improvement project (Cr. 147-BU, 1969, para. 1.04), followed by a
*        second coffee improvement project (Cr. 593-BU, 1976, para. 1.04), both of them
in the Ngozi Province, which produces about one third of Burundi's coffee. The
project proposed for the third phase of the on-going coffee improvement program
originated from discussions between RMEA supervision missions and the Office
des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi (OCIBU) project staff as well as Govern-
ment officials. It was prepared by Societe Mixte d'Etudes du Burundi (SOMEBU)
with assistance from RMEA and reviewed by officials of the relevant ministries
including representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Agriculture and
Rural Development. In contrast to the first Ngozi Coffee Improvement Project
and more in line with the on-going one, the proposed Project would not be
limited to coffee improvement alone. It would be an integrated rural develop-
ment Project seeking to improve the productivity of all the farmers' agricul-
tural activities and to raise their general standard of living through the
provision of social and economic infrastructure and facilities.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Burundi in July-August 1980, composed of B. Mbida-Essama,
J.-C. Salle (IDA, Washington), C. F. Marshall and J. L. Unger (Consultants).
N. R. Brouard (IDA) visited Burundi in September-October 1980 to review the
erosion control and'forestry components. J.-C. Salle held post-appraisal
discussions in November-December 1980, with the participation of J. Chevallier
(Resident Mission, Burundi).
1.03      The major changes to the preparation report agreed upon during
the appraisal were: (a) the reduction of the Project area from 15 to six
communes for the foodcrop component because of the management and extension
services- weakness and the high personnel turnover under the second coffee
project; it was felt that these two problems could be solved only gradually;
(b) a reduction in the number of Project components to be managed by the
Project management team from about 14 to six to put more emphasis on the
development of extension services and fewer burdens on the Project manage-
rnent team; and (c) a substantial reduction in Project costs, as a consequence
of (a) and (b) above.
1.04      This would be the sixth IDA credit to Burundi for an agricultural
project. The first project was for coffee improvement (Cr. 147-BU) followed
by a second coffee improvement project (Cr. 593-BU) in the same province.
A fisheries project (Cr. 626-BU) financed by an IDA Credit of US$6 million and
(:o-financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development (US$1 million)



was approved in 1976. A forestry project (Cr. 918-BU) for an IDA Credit of
US$4.3 million and co-financed by FAC (France, US$1.86 million), UNDP (US$0.70
million) and EEC Special Action Account (US$1.2 million), was approved in
1979. A rural development project for Central Burundi (Kirimiro), a region
adjacent to Ngozi, was appraised in March-April 1980. Another rural develop-
ment project is being prepared for Northeastern Burundi (Muyinga). Performance
of the Ngozi projects is reviewed in Chapter II. The fisheries project
implementation has been beset by delays in the recruitment of expatriate and
local staff and by shortages of materials. Although the performance has
improved, high staff turnover, insufficient production, weak management and
lack of working capital remain serious constraints to efficient project
implementation. The forestry project is proceeding well.
B.   Sector Background
1.05      Burundi, a small landlocked country in Central Eastern Africa, is
bordered by Rwanda in the north, Zaire and Lake Tanganyika in the west and
Tanzania in the south and east. The nearest major seaport, Dar es Salaam, is
about 1,200 km away. Most imports come by rail from Dar es Salaam to Kigoma
and thence by boat to Bujumbura. Exports follow the same route in reverse.
The inefficiency of Tanzanian ports and railways is a major impediment t2
normal flow of goods t 2 and from Burundi. Total area is about 24,970 km
excluding the 2,850 km  of Lake Tanganyika that lie within Burundi territory.
The population of nearly four and a half million, increasing at about 2% 2a
year, gives Burundi one of the highest population densities (over 160/km ) in
continental Africa. Bujumbura, with a pvpulation of about 175,000 is the only
major urban center, and more than 90% of ths nopiilatin" live in the rural
areas where population density varies from about 50/km  to over 300/km .
About 50% of the population is under 20 years old. Burundi is one of the 25
"least developed" nations iE. the world with per capita GNP estimated at US$140
in 1978. Real GNP growth o7?::r the past decade barely kept pace with inflation
and the standard of living in the rural area may even have declined. Per
capita income in the towns and cities is estimated to be four to five times
that of rural areas.
1.06      Burundi has four major eco-climatic zones:  (a) the Imbo, made up of
a number of plains with altitudes of from just below 800 to 1,000 m, annual
rainfall of 800 to 1,000 mm and average temperatures of 23°-24°C; (b) the
Zaire-Nile Crest with altitudes of 1,800 to more than 2 500 m, annual rainfall
of 1,300 to 1,800 mm and average temperatures of 140-15°C; (c) the Central
Plateau with altitudes of 1,500 to 2,000 m, annual rainfall of 1,100 to
1,500 mm and average temperatures of 17 -20 C; this is the most densely popu-
lated and the most economically important area; and (d) the savannahs of the
north and east, with altitudes below 1,600 m, annual rainfalls of 800 to
1,200 mm and average temperatures of 20 0-25 0C. There are four seasons: a short
dry season in January followed by the major rainy season in February to May,
then the major dry season from May to September and finally, a short rainy
season from October to December. Of Burundi-s total land area, about 40% is



- 3 -
under cultivation, mainly in the lowlands and Muyinga province, 20% is
considered arable but is not being utilized; about 23% is pasture land, 3% is
forest and the rest is classified as "other" (towns, wasteland, rivers, etc.).
1.07      Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic activity.   Over
the last few years, it has accounted for about 62% of the Gross Domestic
Product and provided almost all of the foreign exchange earnings, with coffee
contributing about 90%, and animal skins, tea and cotton making up most of the
rest. During the same period, food and beverage imports accounted for about
15% of the total value of merchandise imports, underlining a chronic foodcrop
production deficit. More than 90% of Burundi's population derives its liveli-
hood directly from agriculture and much of the rest is directly or indirectly
(lependent on it for employment. Most agricultural activity is of the tradi-
tional subsistence type (para. 1.10 to 1.14). It faces the following serious
constraints: (a) the unavailability of arable lands and the small size of the
Farms, problems which are compounded by the high rate of population growth
which increases pressure on land;  (b) the low level of farmers' income
'para. 1.05) which does not allow them to purchase inputs; (c) the inefficiency
of the Government extension services (para. 1.30); and (d) the constant soil
erosion and degradation caused by the cultivation of steep slopes, bad farming
practices, inadequate anti-erosion measures, burning of agricultural residues
and grass, overgrazing, little or no fallow practice and the lack of fertilizer
application (para. 1.13). All these factors have contributed to a decline in
per capita subsistence foodcrop production over the last decade and a worsen-
ing of the already poor nutritional status of most of the rural population.
1.08      There are an estimated 650,000 farming inits, with an average farm
size below one hectare. About one quarter of the farmers raise livestock.
In addition to being the mainstay of the subsistence economy, foodcrops also
represent the single most important source of money income for farmers
(mainly from the sale of banana "beer"). Export crops, mainly coffee and to
a lesser extent cotton and tea, provide about 20% of rural cash income.
Land Tenure
1.09      Although by law all land in Burundi belongs to the Government, in
practice, tenure is regulated by a combination of traditional land laws and
modern regulations. Under the traditional system, individuals are granted
usufruct rights over, not ownership of, the land to be cultivated on a perma-
nent basis and they own all the crops produced on that land. These rights are
usually transferable from father to sons or close relatives, with each heir
receiving only a fraction of the original plot. Uncultivated and unutilized
land belongs or reverts automatically to the Government, or else must be
formally registered, with modern title deeds to remain private. Only about
1% to 2% of all land is considered private. Land rights are acquired through
inheritance, outright sale, lease, gifts or Government allocation for settle-
ment purposes. Efforts to change traditional land practices in rural areas
have met with little success because of organizational complexities and
psychological resistance from farmers. To expropriate cultivated land, the
Government must pay compensation; it can, however, acquire other land, includ-
ing grazing land, without compensation.



-4-
Agricultural Production and Production Systems
1.10      Food Crops:  Beans, cassava, maize, sweet potatoes and bananas are
the principal food crops. Most banana production is processed to make "beer",
an important source of cash income. Diversification efforts are now underway
to promote the cultivation of alternative crops such as wheat and rice. About
90% of cultivated land is under food crops, with over 25% of this under
bananas. Data on food crop production and yields are not very reliable, but
what is available indicates that overall production has only slightly increased
over the last six years due to the extension of cultivated land. The sluggish
production increases are believed to be the results of the utilization of
marginal lands with no agricultural inputs and of bad farming practices
(paras. 1.07, 1.12 and 1.13).
1.11      Because of its varied eco-climatic conditions, Burundi has a
considerable diversity of crop patterns. Traditional farming methods based on
the family unit are predominant all over the country as farmers lack adequate
know-how and resources to adopt modern techniques which are limited to the
outlying regions (para. 1.14) and concern only a few coffee and tea plantations
in the interior.
1.12      There are two main cultural seasons under the traditional system
corresponding to the major and the short rainy seasons. Two types of land
surface are exploited: the hills and the valleys. Little or no fallow is
practised because of limited land availability. Intensive farming and inade-
quate erosion control measures on slopes contribute to rapid land degradation
(para. 1.07). Valley plots are drained and farmed with beans only during the
major dry season. More than 85% of farming activities are carried out on hill
slopes where the average farm size is about 84 ares. The average farm consists
of three scattered parcels located in most cases on the same hill. About 70%
of the farm area is used for multiple intercropping and there is no integra-
tion of livestock with other farming activities. Cropping competes with
grazing and coffee growing for the same land.
1.13      About half of the labor requirements of the farm are provided
by women (para. 3.07) and most of the seeds used come from the family farm.
Farming tools are rudimentary and limited mainly to a hoe for digging up the
ground and a machette used for cutting grass before burning. Practically
no pesticides or fertilizers are used because they are not usually available,
purchase by farmers is limited by low incomes, and their usefulness is not
well known by farmers.
1.14      Modern agricultural techniques are tried:  (a) in the settlement
schemes called "paysannats"; (b) on industrial plantations; and (c) in irriga-
tion schemes. Settlement schemes were started by the Government in 1949 to
transfer people from the densely populated Central Plateau area to the sparsely
populated lower areas in an effort to remedy the land shortage problem. Under
such schemes, physical and social infrastructure (roads, schools and dispen-
saries) are provided as well as an improved technical package and extension
services. Farmers have the usufruct of a 1.5 to 4 ha plot but must conform to
set agricultural practices. Settlements to date cover about 40,000 ha and
promote industrial crops such as cotton (Ruzizi Plain), rice and sugar cane



- 5 -
(Ruzizi and Kumoso). Despite the unfamiliar and relatively unpleasant condi-
tions prevailing in the plains which slowed down the immigration of highland
people towards the settlements, the "paysannat" schemes have achieved some
success and produce most of the rice and cotton in ]3urundi, although a number
of settlers are known to have returned to their original regions. Industrial
plantations of Robusta coffee are privately owned and cover an area of about
800 ha on the Ruzizi Plain; they operate under modern agricultural techniques
and produce about 75% of Burundi's Robusta coffee. Industrial tea plantations
cover about 4,630 ha at high altitudes and belong to the Government.
1.15      Commercial crops:  The main cash crops are coffee, tea, cotton
for export, rice and bananas for making beer. Coffee is grown by about half
the farmers and is by far Burundi's most important export crop. It accounts
for about 90% (para. 1.07) of foreign exchange earnings and generates about
33% of all Government revenues. Tea was introduced just over 10 years ago;
production is still negligible but is expanding. Cotton production decreased
for a number of years due mainly to its low farmgate price but has picked up
again. Annual production of coffee has varied between 17,000 and 23,000 tons
of green equivalent (para. 1.24) over the last few years and that of cotton
between 3,000 and 6,000 tons.
1.16      Almost all coffee is of the Arabica type and its production fluc-
tuates constantly for a variety of reasons, the most important being climatic
ccnditions. Coffee husbandry standards vary according to regions but mulching
could be much improved in general and could lead to higher productivity.
Arabica coffee is mainly grown in the Ngozi, Gitega and Muyinga provinces
(Map IBRD 15324), which all have an average annual rainfall of 1,100 to
1,500 mm and altitudes of 1,500 and 2,000 m (para. 1.06). Over one third of
total production comes from Ngozi. Smallholder Arabica coffee is grown in
smiall stands covering from 0.04 to 0.10 ha; farmers generally have from 80 to
Il,O trees. Most of the plantations are on flat or gently sloping lands
located close to the "rugo" (a fenced yard around the dwelling). Coffee
yi'elds vary from one region to the next with Ngozi having the highest yield
because of its better soils and climatic conditions, and as a result of the
first two coffee improvement projects (paras. 2.01 to 2.12).  Fertilizers have
been applied irregularly and only in Ngozi as the Government has at different
times banned and then authorized fertilizer imports. Countrywide insect
control campaigns are usually organized and financed by OCIBU (para. 1.33).
Pruning is not properly done, except in areas covered by the first IDA-
f:inanced coffee projects and mulching material is f'ast becoming hard to find.
YLelds have been generally decreasing and vary from around 200 gr/tree per
year in Gitega and Muyinga to about 450 gr/tree in Ngozi on the average.
These numbers should be viewed with caution as no reliable data base exists.
Due to the scarcity of land suitable and available for coffee development,
the improvement of productivity through improved husbandry practices will
become increasingly important. Potential for developing other crops appears
lLmited, although the Government is trying to develop a sugar agro-industry.
1.17      Livestock:  Livestock statistics are not reliable.  The average herd
size has, with minor annual variations, been stable over the last six years
and is estimated at about 800,000 head of cattle, 600,000 goats, 300,000



-6-
sheep and about 35,000 pigs. Poultry is also kept in some regions. About 25%
of the farmers own some kind of livestock. Milk production is estimated at
about 55 million liters a year and meat production at 10,000 tons carcass
weight. Thy density of the cattle population varies from 15 to more than 60
head per km . Expansion of livestock breeding is limited by the scarcity of
pasture. Cattle are bred extensively more for prestige than for economic or
nutritional reasons.   The lack of organized grazing, the high stocking rates
and repeated burning cause overgrazing with a resulting decrease in the carry-
ing capacity of the pastures and competition between grazing, food cropping
and coffee growing for the same land (para. 1.12). Cattle are brought back
every night to a hut at the rugo but no fodder or water is provided and
little or no manure is collected. Cows are milked in the morning; production
is low (about 300 liters per lactation). The herd composition in the country
is about 2% bulls, 39% cows, 24% heifers, 18% bullocks and steers, and 17%
calves. The cattle are mainly the Ankole breed. There is a high incidence
of disease and parasitory infections; veterinary services are inadequate and
poorly maintained. As a result, mortality rates are high, especially among
calves.   Offtake is estimated at 6% to 7%.
1.18      Burundi goats are small, stocky and well-adapted to local conditions.
Sheep raising is not a traditional activity and has only recently been intro-
duced. Goats and sheep roam around the rugo for grazing or are tethered where
pasture is available. Very few of them are dipped. Farmers have no access to
improved breeds or to selected sires or dams except for a limited number of
milking goats currently introduced from Germany in the Central Plateau region
(para. 3.15). Pigs and poultry are also raised in the hills where they
rummage for food and receive virtually no care or supplementary food.
1.19      Given the rapidly declining grazing lands, the competition between
grazing and agriculture for the same land in many areas and deeply ingrained
social attitudes towards cattle-raising (para. 1.17), there is an urgent need
for the Government to define a national livestock policy before any further
activities are undertaken.
2
1.20      Fisheries:  Burundi has about 2,850 km  of territorial waters on
Lake Tanganyika (para. 1.05). Fish production has fluctuated in the last few
years between 11,000 and 20,000 tons per year for Lake Tanganyika and catches
from the northern lakes have been estimated at about 1,000 tons per year. A
number of studies have suggested that potential yields could be significantly
higher in Lake Tanganyika and that some potential exists for increasing
production and for developing fish ponds in the region of the northern lakes.
Lake Tanganyika is fished mainly by industrial purse seine units owned by
expatriates, by artisanal fishermen using simple techniques, and by tradi-
tional fishermen using canoes and scoopnets.
1.21      Forestry:  Forests occupy about 3% of the country s total area and
are being fast depleted. The total area of forests, savannah woodland and
tree plantations does not exceed 90,000 ha. Data on forest exploitation and
wood consumption are poo5 but total annual wood consumption is tentatively
estinated at 1 million m , equivalent to an annual consumption of 0.25 m per
head. These figures appear well below minimum normal requirements. Small
quantities of sawn timber are the only wood product imports.



- 7 -
1.22      Other agricultural products include vegetables, fruits, tobacco,
cinchona bark and honey, but these are less significant for farmers than those
discussed above.
Marketing, Processing and Prices
1.23      Food Crops:  An estimated 5% to 10% of total food crop production is
marketed by private traders in traditional markets with very limited facil-
iIies. This small percentage is a result of limited surplus production,
inadequate storage, and the lack of an organized marketing system. Prices
are determined principally by supply and demand fluctuations with prices
being depressed after harvest but rising just before the planting season when
farmers are in need of seeds. Prices also vary regionally. In 1977, SOBECOV
(Societe Burundaise d'Entreposage et de Commercialisation des Vivres), a
parastatal marketing company was created (para. l.36) in an effort to stabi-
lize food prices through the establishment of buffer stocks and to ensure a
cDnstant food supply to the urban and rural populat:ions. It has had very
little impact and is experiencing financial and management difficulties.
The Government has fostered the development of cooperatives in a number of
regions to purchase, stock and sell a limited proportion of the food crop
production at reasonable prices. Some of the major problems faced by the
cooperatives are lack of trained personnel, insufficient working capital
funds and inadequate or non-existent infrastructure. A project in Ngozi
province supported by ILO (International Labor Organization) is successfully
addressing some of these problems.
1.24      Commercial Crops:  Marketing of cash crops is regulated by the
relevant parastatal company (para. 1.32) but private traders are also active
in the market. Most of the coffee cherries are processed 1/ in about 648
hand pulping centers set up and maintained by OCIBIU (para. 1.33) and the
parchment coffee sold by farmers directly to private traders licensed by
COCIBU. For the most part private traders are independent businessmen who
have developed strong economic ties with the local population. All trans-
actions are in cash but traders are known to lend money to farmers in the
coff-season. This creates a dependency relationship that is difficult to
break. The traders do not pay any premium to farmers when they bring better
processed coffee and this hampers efforts to improve coffee quality
(para. 2.06). Parchment coffee is transported to Bujumbura and delivered to
OCIBU for hulling, grading,
I/  The following terminology is used in this report:  Cherry is the complete
fruit of the coffee tree which should be picked when it turns red, and
normally contains two beans. These beans are individually covered by
membranes, the silver-skins, and parchment-like shells, all covered by a
mucilaginous substance. Immediately surrounding this is the skin of the
cherry. Skin is removed in the pulping process, and mucilage during
washing and fermentation. Pulped coffee, when dried, is called parchment
coffee. The parchment and silver-skins are retmoved in hulling factories,
which produce clean or green coffee. All coffee trading is in green
coffee, which is eventually roasted before corLsumption.



- 8 -
packaging and sale to BCC (the Burundi Coffee Company) (para. 1.35) at a set
price. Only a small percentage (4% in 1978) of coffee produced is processed
in the washing stations financed under IDA credits 147-BU and 593-BU (paras.
1.04, 2.02 and 2.09). Before the beginning of each coffee season, OCIBU
proposes a price structure based on the forecast of the FOB export price,
establishing the various margins to be paid from the proceeds of coffee sales
to the producers, the exporters, OCIBU and the Government. The amounts of
deductions are calculated for each price level on a sliding scale. The price
paid to producers is fixed for the whole season and does not vary according
to final export prices. Likewise, fixed deductions are made for costs of
transport, trader's commission hulling, bagging, and to cover OCIBU's normal
operating overheads. Deductions are also made for a coffee promotion tax, a
diversification tax (formerly paid to ICO -- the International Coffee Organi-
zation -- but now paid to a Government fund for agricultural development), a
selection tax to pay for improved coffee planting materials, and a tax to
cover Government's contribution to the cost of the on-going second coffee
improvement project; these deductions are included in "OCIBU: other charges"
in the price structure given below. In addition to these fixed amounts,
deductions are made for BCC's operating and financial costs. The balance
goes to Government, to be allocated between the Treasury as export taxes and
duties and the Coffee Stabilization Fund. The Council of Ministers decides
on the final price structure to be applied; however, prices are not enforced
and it is generally admitted that the private traders cheat on weight. The
following price structure was adopted for the 1980-1981 season.
FBu/ton
Producers 1/                                           156,756
Transport to Bujumbura                                    2,703
Traders' commission                                       4,054      163,513
OCIBU processing charges                                 30,180
OCIBU other charges                                       7,150      200,843
BCC charges (including transport to Dar es Salaam)   19,055
Export taxes and duties                                  70,770      290,668
Total FOB cost, Dar es Salaam                           290,668
Up to FBu 300 million, the difference between this cost and the actual FOB
price obtained goes to the stabilization fund; any amount above that goes to
the public treasury. From December 1969 to December 1979, the fund has had
positive balances that fluctuated widely between FBu 40 million and 1,796
million. The purpose of the fund is to protect prices to producers from
export price varieties. Under present conditions, however, it is used by the
Government to finance other activities. Over the last few years, prices to
producers and the average FOB export prices (in FBu/kg green equivalent for
FOB equivalent and parchment for producers) have been as follows:
1/ This structure is based on an assumed production of 20,000 tons and
a green to parchment yield ratio of 74%.



-9-
FOB export
Producers      for Arabica, Dar es Salaam
1967                   35                      67.82
1968                   34                      65.87
1969                   32.5                    59.23
1970                   36.0                    89.02
1971                   35                      71.50
1972                   34                      85.67
1973                   38                      94.78
1974                   45                      89.71
1975                   39                     100.37
1976                   65                     235.18
1977                  112                     478.79
1978                  112                     240.71
Source: Central Bank of Burundi.
All tea processing is done in Government built factories and the tea exported
through OTB (Office National du The), a parastatal (para. 1.36).  All cotton
processing and marketing is carried out through CCGERCO (Caisse de Gerance et
(le Reserve Cotonniere), another parastatal (para. 1.36).
L.25      Livestock and Meat.  Livestock are mostly sold in small rural
markets for cash and prices are determined by supply and demand. A
'transaction" tax of FBu 200 per head is levied by the communes.  About 50% of
the cattle brought to markets are sold depending on the season. Prices vary
with markets and exhibit seasonal fluctuations, buLt have about doubled in the
last three or four years.
1.26      Meat is marketed in both the rural markets and in the central
Bujumbura market. Theoretically, prices are set by the Government but there
is no effective enforcement system. Slaughtering is supposedly carried out at
numerous rural stations but these facilities are either nonexistent or rudi-
mentary, and slaughtering is also done in villages; there is little, if any,
health control. Meat prices tend to be high and beyond the reach of the
average person. Most of the traditional fish production is dried on the sand
and sold by private traders. The impact of the parastatal fisheries develop-
ment company financed under an IDA Credit (para. 1.04) is felt more on the
production than on the marketing side.
D
1.27      Most of the trade in wood and wood-derived products is carried
out in Bujumbura. Charcoal is the most valuable of the wood products traded.
No coherent pricing policy exists as yet, but the Government is taking steps
to elaborate and implement one. Prices vary widely and have increased
sharply in recent years. Although in principle the exploitation of the
natural forest and of Government and communal plantations is strictly
regulated and a permit fee or a communal tax is payable, it is difficult to
enforce the regulations because of shortage of staff, the scattered nature of
the plantations and their poor condition which generally does not justify
extensive control.



- 10 -
C.   Government Services
1.28      The major institutions responsible for agricultural, rural and
livestock development are as follows:
1.29      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Chart 1) is responsible
for direction and coordination of all activities in the agricultural and
livestock sector. The Minister is assisted by three Directors General for
Agriculture, Livestock and Planning. The Director General of Agriculture is
responsible for four departments: Agronomy, Rural Works, Waters and Forestry,
and Land Tenure and Surveys. The production and distribution of improved
seeds, extension services, crop protection, erosion control and soil fertility
are the responsibility of the Agronomy Department which also oversees a number
of projects. The major duties of the Rural Works Department are: irrigation,
water distribution, maintenance of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and
land reclamation works. It also provides other services, mainly topographic
and hydrometeorological. The Waters and Forestry Department is in charge of
fisheries promotion, reafforestation, soil protection and wildlife management.
1.30      The Director General of Livestock is responsible for three depart-
ments: Animal Production, Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratory. The
Director General of Planning is responsible for agricultural training and for
project identification, preparation and coordination. Agricultural services
are regionalized at the provincial level, separately for each department and
most departments are represented at the "arrondissement" level (para. 1.40).
In general, the Ministry is understaffed at all levels and field extension
agents are poorly trained, poorly supervised and lack adequate logistic
support. The 950:1 farmers to extension agent ratio reported by the Ministry
appears very low. Under an IDA-financed technical assistance project (Credit
917-BU), the Ministry of Agriculture has been provided since September 1980
with two expatriates to assist the Director General of Planning in project
identification and preparation and in setting up a monitoring and evaluation
system for on-going projects. At the same time, an expert in agricultural
statistics has been hired by the Ministry of Planning to set up a permanent
data collection system on agricultural production and to train statisticians.
1.31      The Ministry of Rural Development (Chart 2) was created in 1979
out of the former Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development as
a technical ministry conceived to supplement the Ministry of Agriculture in
its rural sector activities. It has one Director General which supervises
three departments: the Cooperative Department which oversees the ILO/UNDP-
financed cooperative project (para. 1.23); the Rural Housing Department which
seeks to promote better housing in the rural areas; and the Department of
Hydraulics and Rural Electrification. Like the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Ministry of Rural Development is understaffed.
1.32      The following parastatal institutions, with the exception of BCC
(Burundi Coffee Company), are under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Most of them are generally understaffed and require a consider-
able expatriate input.



- 11 -
1.33      OCIBU (para. 1.01) is a financially autonomous parastatal institu-
tion established in 1964. OCIBU was originally intended to be responsible
for the production, quality control, conditioning, marketing control and
promotion of all industrial export crops. In practice, however, it deals
only with coffee. Its main activity is to ensure that Burundi coffee quality
is in accordance with internationally recognized standards. It also estab-
lishes and maintains communal coffee hand pulpers, imports, distributes and
supervises the use of pesticides, fertilizers and other coffee-related inputs
and administers the coffee price stabilization fund and a coffee promotion
fund.  Finally, OCIBU controls all internal coffee marketing (para. 1.24) and
has been responsible for the implementation of the first two coffee improve-
ment projects (paras. 2.04 and 2.09). OCIBU is headquartered in Bujumbura and
i<; administered by a Board of Directors. It operates four hulling factories
inherited from private companies, which are very old and whose operation and
maintenance have become costly. The Government has decided to build a new
modern hulling factory in the near future to be managed by OCIBU. OCIBU's
resources come from taxes levied on coffee exports and from loans and grants
from Government.
1.34      ISABU. Agricultural research is carried out by the Institut des
Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi (ISABU), largely financed by Belgian aid. It
has a large Belgian technical assistance staff, operates five research stations
and is headed by a Director General assisted by six department heads. The lack
of qualified local scientists, equipment and adequate physical infrastructure
has been a serious constraint on all research activities. ISABU also super-
vises three pilot projects for tea, foodcrops and 'Livestock. Its research has
been mainly concerned with the following programs: environmental development,
plant protection, crop production including both perennial and foodcrops as
well as forestry, rural socio-economic studies and animal production. The
research program on foodcrops has been generally less well carried out and its
results less widely disseminated than has been the case for perennial crops,
especially coffee. In December 1979, the Community of the Great Lakes (a
regional grouping set up by Zaire, Rwanda, and Burundi) decided on the estab-
lishment of a communal research organization called the "Institut de Recherches
Agronomiques et Zootechniques" in order to group and coordinate individual
research efforts in the three countries. The present infrastructure will
remain unchanged although it is proposed to construct a central head office.
External financing and technical assistance would be sought.
L.35      Burundi Coffee Company (BCC) is a parastatal company created in
m         April 1975 and restructured in March 1980.  The Burundi Government owns 60% of
i:he shares, the Central Bank 20% and OCIBU 20%. BCC is under the responsibil-
ity of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry ard handles all coffee exports.
[ts activities include: the development of new export markets for coffee and
the representation of Burundi at the ICO. It is headed by a Director
General with two assistants and has a total staff of 15.  The major problems
facing BCC are difficult communications with the outside world and poor
transportation facilities to the nearest harbor, Dar es Salaam (para. 1.05).
Whereas the telecommunications problem is likely lo be solved by the operation
of a new satellite system, there is no solution in sight for the transporta-
tion problem. BCC is financed through taxes levied on coffee exports and
appears financially sound.



- 12 -
1.36      Other parastatals in operation in the agricultural sector include
SOBECOV (para. 1.23) responsible for foodcrop marketing; OTB (para. 1.24)
responsible for tea processing and marketing; COGERCO (para. 1.24) responsible
for cotton processing and marketing; SUPOBU (Societe d'Usines de Poisson du
Burundi), responsible for the fisheries; SRDI (Societe Regionale de Developpe-
ment de l'Imbo) responsible for the Imbo Irrigation Project; and SRD-Rumonge
(Societe Regionale de Developpement de Rumonge), responsible for a palm tree
development project. ONB (Office National du Bois) was recently created to
coordinate all wood-related activities. It is expected that more regional
development companies will be created as the Government seeks to decentralize
development activities.
1.37      Training.  Burundi has four agricultural training institutions.  The
small new agricultural department created in 1974 at Bujumbura University
produces about a dozen graduates per year. The Institut des Techniques
Agricoles du Burundi (ITAB), in existence since 1965, offers a four-year
course to students with a minimum of four years of high school. Up to 1978,
about 126 agronomists and 16 veterinary technicians had graduated from ITAB.
A forestry section has recently been added. The number of graduates is
expected to reach about 30 per year in the near future. Women have recently
been admitted to ITAB for the first time. The Ecole Professionnelle Agricole
(EPA) three-year post-primary agricultural school at Karuzi started in 1958
trains about 25 field assistants (moniteurs) per year. The Gihanga vocational
school has offered a one and a half year training course for future extension
agents since 1969 and produces about 15 graduates per year. Although almost
all the graduates from these institutions are employed by the Ministry of
Agriculture, they are still not sufficient to meet the country's needs for
trained agricultural manpower. Furthermore, the training offered is not
always adapted to Burundi's needs. A heavy input of expatriate technical
assistance is constantly required and most of the better qualified local staff
are trained overseas.
1.38      Agricultural Credit.  Institutional agricultural credit is not
well developed in Burundi. The overall banking system includes the Central
Bank (Banque de la Republique du Burundi), three foreign-owned commercial
banks (Banque de Credit de Bujumbura, Banque Commerciale du Burundi and
Banque Belgo-Africaine), the Government-owned savings bank (Caisse d'Epargne
du Burundi) and a development bank (Banque Nationale de Developpement
Economique (BNDE). CAMOFI (Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement) was
created in 1979 as a State-owned financial institution to provide short,
medium and long-term financing for industrial and rural development projects
that are implemented by Government-owned companies.  Its funds comes from its
capital and savings deposits for the most part. All these institutions are
headquartered in Bujumbura. The commercial banks have branches at Gitega,
Kayanza and Ngozi; the savings bank has a branch in each province. BNDE was
created in 1967 to finance, among other things, rural development activities
and remains the only source of medium-term agricultural credit, but such
credit represented only 10% of its loans outstanding at the end of 1978; it
went mainly for tea activities. The commercial banks finance seasonal work-
ing capital needs of traders in agricultural commodAities but do not extend
credit to farmers who are considered too high a risk. BNDE is 45% owned by



- 13 -
the Government, 33% by bilateral aid agencies and 22% by private investors.
The lack of a nationwide network, the small size of the farms and the farmers'
low revenues, the risks involved in the rural sector and the lack of trained
banking staff in sufficient numbers are some of the major obstacles which have
prevented BNDE from becoming an effective rural development institution.
The French Caisse Centrale, with IDA financing, has been commisioned to
study the feasibility of establishing an agricultural credit institution in
Burundi and has sent one mission to Burundi. Its preliminary conclusion is
that it would be ill-advised to start a new rural credit institution but that
there is a need for coordination among the already existing credit institu-
tions and for using those local parastatals which a:Lready provide adequate
extension services to channel any eventual credit to farmers.
1.39      Cooperatives.  Since 1976, the Government has actively tried to
support the development of cooperatives.  The Department of Cooperatives in
the Ministry of Rural Development is responsible for all cooperative develop-
ment activities. Emphasis is put on the training of appropriate staff in a
recently opened training center. Cooperatives in Burundi are supported
either by a church or by the Government.  Religious missions support a group
of about 37 cooperatives with a total membership of about 10,000. In 1975
these cooperatives formed a union, the Federation des Cooperatives Populaires
du Burundi (FECOBU). FECOBU's members operate stores where they retail goods
such as candles, salt, palm oil, blankets, soap, nails, etc. at low prices
and purchase foodcrops from farmers. These crops are resold to farmers at
subsidized prices. FECOBU serves as a clearing house for its members and has
recently become involved in coffee marketing and provides technical assistance
in accounting and management. Government-supported cooperatives are fewer;
they are for the most part financed by bilateral and multilaterial organiza-
tions and seek to play the same role as FECOBU's member cooperatives and,
further, to provide agricultural inputs to their members at a later stage.
Despite some noteworthy results, insufficient farmer participation and lack
of trained cooperative officers are serious problems still facing cooperative
development in Burundi.
1.40      Local Administration.  Burundi is divided into eight provinces each
of which is divided into "arrondissements" (18 in total or 2 to 3 per prov-
ince). The "arrondissements" are further subdivided into communes of which
there are 79 in all; communes are divided into zones and "collines" (hills)
which are the smallest administrative units.  The Ministry of the Interior
has principal responsibility for local administration and works through its
appointed officers: Governors of provinces, "Commissaires d'arrondissement",
commune administrators and zone chiefs. These officials coordinate the work
of the staff of the technical ministries who are appointed by most departments
at the province, "arrondissements" and commune levels. For the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock an agronomist (sometimes university-trained) is
in charge of the agricultural staff of each province and he reports to the
Agronomy Department. At the communal level, an agricultural assistant
coordinates all activities and reports to the provincial agronomist. Field
aissistants (moniteurs) operate at the hill level. The local administrative
system depends on limited central Government budget support which supplements



- 14 -
communal budgets. The communal council is the main executive body at the
communal level but in practice it has only an advisory role. All rural
Burundi citizens are required to work one day a week, on Saturday, on projects
of national interest; these "travaux communautaires" (community labor) are
normally organized by the provincial, "arrondissement", and communal author-
ities.
D. Development Problems and Government Plans
1.41      The problems facing Burundi's agriculture are complex.  Institutions
dealing with agriculture and rural development are generally weak and short of
trained staff. The potential for agricultural development is limited by the
low level of farmers' income and pressure on the limited arable areas which is
aggravated by a high population growth rate and the competition for land
between crops and livestock. Overgrazing, overcropping, the exploitation of
marginal or unsuitable land, the limited use of fallow and the traditional
cultivation methods all contribute to soil erosion and degradation. Access
to markets and provision of agricultural services are relatively difficult
due to the fact that the rural population is scattered all over the country.
The major challenge for the Government is to increase the income levels of the
rural population through increased agricultural production.
1.42      The last three five-year development plans (1968-1972, 1973-1977
and 1978-1982) have emphasized increased foodcrop production and cash crop
development to provide scarce foreign exchange resources and more revenues to
the Government. Whereas the first two plans focussed on industrial crops,
the third one has more diversified objectives including foodcrop and livestock
development, erosion control and the introduction of new cash crops. It
proposes a new strategy to achieve social justice and improved living condi-
tions in the rural areas.  It recognizes the need to diversify both within
the agricultural sector to lessen reliance on a few crops and into other
sectors in order to reduce reliance on agriculture for economic growth.  The
restructuring of the rural sector will rely on the creation of regional
development companies which will be responsible for implementing integrated
rural development projects (para. 5.01) and the development of a strong
cooperative movement.
1.43      The volume of investment in real terms during the Plan period is to
be double that of the previous plan.  About 22% of total investment is to be
allocated directly to the agricultural sector, and an additional 35% to
related infrastructure such as rural housing, water supply, electricity,
education and roads.  The rural areas are expected to benefit from about 57%
of total investment. The objectives of the plan are to increase agricultural
production by 17.5% for foodcrops, 62% for cash crops, 96% for livestock, 30%
for fisheries and 12% for wood and wood-derived products. A brief review of
the Government's performance for the first three years of the Plan shows that
these objectives are far from being achieved and that the situation has, in
fact, deteriorated in a number of subsectors. The Government convened a



- 15 -
Round Table Conference in February 1978 tc present iLts Third Development Plan
and coordinate foreign aid. During that conference, it proposed to convene
in the near future a working group on agriculture to discuss major problems
of the sector and measures to resolve them. As a result, another Round Table
Conference was held in November 1979.
II. THE FIRST TWO COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
2.01      This chapter briefly reviews the implementation of the first two
IDA-financed coffee development projects and draws some lessons from their
ex:perience. The analysis is mainly based on the Project Completion Report
(PCR), the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and the Impact Evaluation
Report for the first project and on supervision reports and field reviews for
the second project which is not yet completed.
A., Burundi Arabica Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 147-BU)
2.02      The first coffee improvement project (Cr. 147-BU) was conceived by
the Government, identified and prepared by two different FAO/IBRD Cooperative
missions in 1966 and 1967 and appraised by an IDA mission in March 1968.
Credit 147-BU was signed in April 1969 and closed, and fully disbursed in
June 1976. The project underwent substantial changes from identification to
appraisal.
2.03      The principal objective of the project as appraised and implemented
was to increase production and improve coffee quality from about seven million
existing trees grown by about 44,000 smallholders on some 4,400 ha in Ngozi,
the main coffee producing region of Burundi. This was to be done over a five-
year period by: (a) strengthening the extension services; (b) distributing
fertilizers, other inputs and tools to participating farmers; (c) constructing
aad operating four coffee washing stations and rehabilitating 80 communal
handpulping centers; (d) implementing a fertilizer trial program on farmers'
coffee plots; and (e) repairing about 350 small bridges and culverts on access
roads.
2.04      The project was to be implemented by a specialized department
created within OCIBU. Total project costs were estimated at US$2.1 million
to be financed by an IDA Credit of US$1.8 million and Government contribution
of US$0.3 million. A PCR on Credit 147-BU was issued in September 1976 and a
PPAR in March 1977. An Impact Evaluation Report is being prepared. Although
a great effort has been made to evaluate this project thoroughly, the most
striking fact is that the PCR, the PPAR and the Evaluation Report all empha-
size the impossibility of drawing conclusive statements about the project's
impact because much of the analysis rests on a subjective review, for lack of
data, of the present situation rather than proven historical developments.



- 16 -
Project Completion Report
2.05      The main conclusions of the PCR are that:  (a) the lack of reliable
agricultural data makes it impossible to assess the project's impact on the
volume of coffee production with any reasonable degree of accuracy; (b) the
improvement of coffee husbandry practices was implemented along the lines
indicated in the appraisal report; (c) the application of fertilizers, if
combined with high standards of coffee husbandry and provided that prices of
both fertilizers and coffee make it economically profitable, is justifiable;
(d) despite the great interest generated and a useful analysis of the tech-
nology and the economics of the washing stations, their economic profitability
was still considered an open question; and (e) staffing and procurement prob-
lems delayed and seriously hindered the normal implementation of the project.
2.06      Other conclusions of the PCR may be summarized as follows:  Project
Implementation. The project started on schedule but the high turnover of
expatriate staff (three project managers during the life of the project) and
the uneven quality of their performance had a generally negative impact and
delayed project implementation. Some 60 handpulpers were repaired but were
either rarely or inadequately used as farmers were not motivated to improve
coffee quality under the prevailing fragmented marketing system involving
hundreds of small traders who pay no premium for better coffee (para. 1.24).
The Washing Station component, however, produced a high proportion (75%) of its
throughput as fully washed with a higher hulling efficiency (80%) than for
traditionally processed parchment coffee (72%). Total actual project
costs were estimated to be nearly 20% higher than appraisal estimates. Govern-
ment financed more than 20% of project costs compared to a 16% appraisal esti-
mate and the credit was fully disbursed two years after the expected closing
date because of the late completion of the washing stations. Procurement
procedures were in conformity with Bank guidelines.
2.07       Organizational Aspects.  OCIBU was called upon to implement the
project because of its experience in the coffee subsector. A special project
department was set up within OCIBU for this exclusive purpose. The Minister
of Agriculture, as Chairman of OCIBU, maintained a consistent and keen in-
terest in project progress.
2.08       Project Impact.  Given the lack of reliable quantitative informa-
tion, it was thought meaningless to try to disentangle the effect that
various improved husbandry practices and fertilizers may have had on coffee
yields.  Incremental project production was, nevertheless, estimated at 500                 0
tons green coffee/year, as opposed to the 1,580 tons envisaged at appraisal.
Incremental income was estimated to be US$6 per farm household at full deve-
lopment, a figure that appears relatively low compared to the investments made.
The PPAR generally confirms the findings of the PCR and goes on to underline
the fact that the needs and weaknesses of the extension service were not
treated in sufficient depth in the supervision reports and that the experi-
mental nature of the project was not properly reflected during implementa-
tion. The Impact Evaluation Report generally agrees with the conclusions of



- 17 -
the PCR and the PPAR but states that more effort should have been made to use
washing stations as a nucleus for cooperative development.
B.  Second Coffee Improvement Project (Credit 593-BU)
2.09         The second coffee improvement project was prepared by the
Government with assistance from the IBRD Regional Mission in East Africa
(RMEA); it was approved in November 1975 and is expected to be closed and
fully disbursed by September 30, 1981. The objective of this second project,
a follow-up of the first (para. 2.02), was to support the development of
smallholder coffee and foodcrop production in Ngozi Province. Its components
were: (a) the provision of inputs and the strengthening of extension services
to improve coffee and foodcrop cultivation; (b) the construction and operation
of four washing stations; (c) research and field trials on coffee and foodcrop
development; (d) the construction or repair of drinking water sources,
bridges and culverts; (e) experimental rural development activities, including
the improvement of small livestock, training of draft animals, the use of
water mills and the establishment of farmers' cooperatives; and (f) the
provision of technical assistance. The project was to be implemented by the
same OCIBU specialized department which implemented the first coffee project
(para. 2.04). Total project costs were estimated at US$7.5 million to be
financed by an IDA Credit of US$5.2 million. The Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development was to cofinance US$1.2 million and Government partici-
pELtion was estimated at US$1.1 million. Difficulties encountered in the
design of the first project were taken into account in the design of the
second project.
2.10      Project Implementation.   Project activities started without any
delay under the same management team as for the first project. All the
provincial technical staff of the Ministry of Agriculture were integrated into
the project management team. Implementation of the project has been affected
by many problems, including: (a) a high management turnover of both expatriate
and local staff (para. 2.06); (b) lack of an adequate supply of construction
materials due to the difficulties of transporting goods from Dar es Salaam;
(c) a weak and inefficient extension workforce as well as lack of senior
management follow-up in the area of foodcrop development; (d) lack of timely
availability of Government counterpart funds and the absence of an adequate
prefinacing mechanism for working capital needs; and (e) lack of a Government
policy on inputs such as fertilizers which has created shortages at critical
moments because of Government import bans. The achievements of the project
to date include: (i) construction and better management of the washing
stations due to the recruitment of a competent expatriate; operating profit
from the washing stations was about US$490,000 in 1L979; (ii) a well-run
construction service which has been able to build coffee-washing stations,
houses and repair roads at acceptable standards; but much below prevailing
market costs; and (iii) the establishment and maintenance of many coffee
nurseries throughout the project area.
2.11       Project Impact.  As in the case of the first coffee project,
the lack of a proper monitoring and evaluation system and, consequently of



- 18 -
reliable data, makes it difficult to make a preliminary estimate of the
project's impact. The single most visible effect attributable to the project
is farmers' growing confidence in some washing stations. The foodcrop devel-
opment activities, although improved during the last two years of project
implementation, have been a failure due to a number of factors including the
rapid turnover of expatriate and local management (para. 2.10), the diffi-
culties associated with the introduction of new seeds in Ngozi, the project
team's inexperience with food crop development and the extension services
failure to monitor farmers' demonstration plots.
2.12      Detailed reviews of the first project and a preliminary review of
the second underline a number of important lessons. They include: (i)
Data Base - Without a reliable data base and proper follow-up of project
activities, no assessment of project impact can be made and consequently
nothing can be learned about the suitability or otherwise of the technical
package proposed. (ii) Socio-Economic Environment - It is important to
understand the relationships between farmers, traders and extension workers in
the Project area and the factors that are likely to shape their behavior.
(iii) Management & Organization - The general shortage of trained manpower
in Burundi and the weakness of the extension services make it important to
assess the training needs of the project staff and take appropriate measures
to satisfy them. It is also important to ensure staff continuity. Finally,
the technical package to be extended to the farmers must be within the ken of
extension workers and they must be able to transmit it to the farmers. (vi)
Prices - Participation of the farmers and the success of many of the proposed
programs depend on appropriate prices being paid to farmers for their coffee.
The lack of a clear financial incentive may prevent strong farmer cooperation.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the Third Ngozi
project through: (a) provisions made for a monitoring and evaluation system
that will ensure adequate data collection (paras. 4.19 and 5.17); (b) the
emphasis put on training (paras. 4.18 and 5.13) and the reduction of the
Project's scope and complexity (para 1.03); (c) the criteria for the location
of washing stations (para. 3.14); and (d) provision for a periodic review of
coffee prices to producers (para. 7.04).
III - PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Physical Characteristics
3.01       The Project area would be the eetire province of Ngozi (Map
IBRD 15323) with an area of about 2,700 km  in the center north of Burundi.
It is bordered by Rwanda in the north, the province of Bubanza in the
west, Muramvya in the south, Gitega in the south and Muyinga in the southeast
and the east. The province of Ngozi is located in the Central Plateau eco-
climatic zone (para. 1.06). Its altitude varies from 1,500 to 2,200 m. The
Zaire-Nile Crest is located in the westernmost part of the province. The
average temperature for the region is  8.5s C withl lows  if a3nx!it     ax6 0  zan
of 20 C. The eastern part of the province has annual rainfalls of 1,100 to.



- 19 -
1,200 mm, the center 1,200 to 1,300 mm and the west where altitude exceeds
2,000 m, 1,300 to 1,700 m. Annual fluctuations are large and have a signifi-
cant effect on crop production. There are four seasons:  a short dry season
in January and February followed by the major rainy season from February to
May, then the main dry season from June to August followed by a short rainy
season from September to January.
3.02      Land Resources.  The topography is of rolling hills with
intensely cultivated slopes and marshy, often peaty, flat valley bottoms.
About 60% or more of cultivated land in the Project area has slopes exceeding
10%, and 50% has slopes of more than 20%. Soils are mostly deep and well-
drained but large sections on steep slopes are subject to serious water
erosion especially in the absence of contour planting of grass strips. Two
broad classifications of soils can be made: clayey ferrisols and ferralsols
derived from granites and micashists. It is estimated that about 47% of
the province's soils have a production potential of from low to average, 30%
an. average potential and 23% a potential of from average to good. The crite-
ria utilized for these classifications are: (a) the mix of different soils;
(E) the thickness of friable soil and humus layer; and (c) the slope. Peat
predominates in most large valleys where the land r?mains moist for a con-
siderable period after the end of the rainy season. Valleys represent about
9.6% of the total area of the province.
3.03       Hydrography.  The two major rivers are the Akanyaru in the north
and the Ruvubu in the south, the main channels of a dense network of streams
and rivers. Both of them flow in large alluvial plains while their tributa-
ries flow in narrow valleys.  River flows in general vary greatly in different
areas and seasons. Some segments are rushing torrents while other stretches
of the same river, crossing a nearly level plateau or wide valley especially
in the lower reaches, may be almost stagnant, and lined with papyrus grasses.
These flat valleys are drained and cultivated in the dry season. The flow
rates of the rivers depend upon rainfall variations and the unpredictability
of- the two annual wet and dry seasons. Cropland is sometimes subject to
severe erosion.
B. Population, Land Use and Land Tenure
3.04      The Project area has a population of about 700,000 representing
approximately217% of Burundi's total population. Average population density
of 266 per km makes Ngozi the most densely populated region in the country.
It numbers about 170,000 households, or about f;ur or more persons per family.
The active population, those from 15 to 59 years of- age, represent 50% of the
total. The demographic growth rate is about 2% per year. Several migratory
movements occur from Ngozi to other parts of the country and include, in
addition to the normal rural exodus toward Bujumbura, a move to the settle-
ments in the Ruzizi and Kumoso plains (para. 1.14) and, lately, to Muyinga
province which is sparsely populated but has eco-c:Limatic conditions similar
to Ngozi's in many respects.



- 20 -
3.05       According to the results of a recent survey, the breakdown
of land use in the Project area is as follows:
Land Category                    Area        Percentage
Under cultivation (hills)             134,000          50.0
Under cultivation (swamps)             15,510           6.0
(Total under cultivation)            (149,510)        56.0
Fallow                                 26,804          10.0
Permanent pasture                      32,295          12.0
Forests                                14,953           3.5
Crests                                  5,811           2.2
Other (towns, rivers, roads, etc.)   38,627            16.3
Total                            268,000         100.0
These figures indicate that the average farm size is less than 80 ares
excluding swamps and about 89 ares including them. The scarcity of land is
thus a major problem in the region.
C. Socio-cultural Aspects
3.06       The pattern of life in the area is overwhelmingly rural, with
probably more than 95% of the population engaged in agriculture. Each family
occupies a self-contained homestead, the rugo on its plot of land, usually
halfway on the hill slope between the top of the hill and the valley bottom.
The rugo is a group of three or four houses or huts surrounded by a fence.
The rugos are scattered over the slopes and summits of the hills and are
seldom grouped to form a village. A typical family usually farms several
plots of land, preferably at different altitudes or in different types of
soil to reduce the risk of crop failure. Land tenure is regulated by a
combination of traditional landlaws and modern regulations (para. 1.09).
3.07      Women have two fundamental roles:  (i) they contribute substantially
more time to farming of foodcrops than men; and (ii) they carry most of the
burden of children's upbringing, thereby shaping their attitudes and their
behavior. Children usually help with the women's work in the farm. Men tend
to concentrate on the cashcrops. Except for the 25% of the cases where they
are household heads, women have little authority to make decisions and their
position in society is determined by the marriage they contract.  The effi-
ciency of extension work is sometimes hampered by the discrepancy between the
contribution women make to agricultural production and their involvement in
the decision making process.
3.08        The education system consists of 85 primary schools with about
670 teachers and nine secondary schools, only one of which can offer a
complete course of study. IDA is financing a project to build about 23
vocational centers throughout the province. Most schools are ill-equipped
and the school enrollment rate is only 11.4% compared to the national average
of 18.8%. There is a general shortage of teachers and facilities for all kinds



- 21 -
of schools, vocational or otherwise. There are two Government-owned and four
mission-owned hospitals, and eleven dispensaries in the province. Religious
missions operate 11 health centers. There is a general shortage of trained
personnel, adequate buildings, proper equipment and, above all, recurrent
funds and urgently needed medicines. Doctors often lack transportation means
to make the necessary visits to dispensaries under their general responsibil-
ity. The diet varies with the agricultural seasons although crops such as
cassava, sweet potatoes and bananas are usually available all year. Despite
considerable cattle breeding, meat consumption is minimal and fish is eaten by
only a small portion of the population. Nutritionally, the diet consists of
mainly starchy foods and are deficient in fats and proteins. A number of
common health problems are directly attributable to these deficiencies. The
average diet provides about 2,110 calories per day or approximately 96% of
the assessed need for Burundi. The supply of fuelwood is not adequate
(para. 1.21).
3.09      There are more than 2,300 water sources in the province.  Fewer than
one third of these sources are properly maintained because most installations
are very old and trained manpower is scarce. Twelve social centers with an
enrollment estimated at 1,800 are located in most communes of Ngozi province:
about 75%0 of the young people attending classes are women.  Courses offered
include aome economics, sewing, carpentry, masonry, cooking and some farming,
depending on staff availability and enrollment per center. Most of the
centers are ill-equipped and are short of trained social workers. A few of
the centers have a health and nutrition education program.
D. Rural Institutions
3.10      Authority Structure.  The province of Ngozi is structured like
all other provinces in Burundi (para. 1.40).
3.11      Cooperatives.  ILO/UNDP finances and provides technical assistance
to a cooperative development project in Ngozi. Two Belgian technical assis-
tants help implement the project whose objective is to organize one coopera-
tive per commune. Twelve cooperatives are already operating in as many
communes on a profitable basis and intend to expand their activities from the
matrketing of essential goods to that of food crops in order to stabilize food
prices to their members. A major constraint facing the development of coopera-
tives is the lack of adequate financial resources.
3.12      Roads.  Ngozi has a dense road network of 122, 28, 188, and 881 km
0:: national, regional, provincial and secondary roads, respectively.
The maintenance of the first three categories is dcne by the Central Govern-
ment. The communes are responsible for the maintenance of secondary roads.
Because of the mountainous terrain, it is difficult: to maintain roads,
particularly during the rainy months. There are few reliable bridges and
many streams are crossed via fords, weather and stream level permitting.
Most of the unsurfaced roads and paths are passable however even during the
rainy season.



- 22 -
E.   Production Systems, Marketing, Processing and Prices
3.13      Agricultural production systems in Ngozi are comparable to those
prevailing under similar climatic conditions elsewhere in Burundi (paras. 1.10,
1.11, and 1.14). However, valley bottom areas, many of them peaty, represent-
ing 9.6% of the total land area, are a feature special to Ngozi. More than
15,000 ha of valleys are cultivated during the dry season with crops such
as beans, sweet potatoes and maize; beans are by far the most important.
Permanent cropping of swampy but arable valley-bottom lands would increase
productivity and alleviate most of the disadvantages inherent in the present
cultivation system (para. 4.14); it would, however, require a far-reaching
control of the river-water regimes after more quantitative hydrologic informa-
tion has been gathered.
3.14      Marketing, Processing, Prices.  Food crops and cash crops are
purchased and processed as elsewhere in Burundi (paras. 1.23 and 1.24). More
than 95% of all Arabica coffee cherries in the Project area are processed by
the smallholders themselves. More than 40% is still pulped by hand on the
farms and the remainder is pulped at some 200 hand-pulping centers established
more than 20 years ago and maintained by OCIBU. The parchment coffee is
obtained of semi-washed quality and suffers from indiscriminate cherry
picking, poor processing and the inadequacy of a marketing system dominated
by too many small traders who provide no incentives to farmers to produce
quality coffee (para. 1.24). Ngozi, however, is the only region where coffee
washing stations have been operating since 1971 under the first two coffee
improvement projects (Chapter II). The refusal of some coffee growers to
sell coffee cherries to certain washing stations has been a major problem.
It is suspected that they prefer to go to private traders because they
represent a permanent source of financing, especially in the off-season. The
choice of the appropriate location of future washing stations will take this
factor into account.
F. On-going Project Activities in the Proiect Area
3.15      Tea Development started about 15 years ago in the high altitudes
of the northwestern part of the province. Three different smallholder mini-
projects and a tea development corporation at different locations are respon-
sible for production, extension work and the running of a tea factory at Banga
Remera. Results of tea activities have been disappointing so far. The
production of the industrial estate has been below expectations and falling
due to mismanagement. Smallholders resist efforts to have them expand the
surface area devoted to tea because of the small size of their plots and the
competition that tea represents for much needed food crops. All the tea pro-
jects are partially financed by the FED (European Development Fund). A Basic
Food Crops Project co-financed by USAID, FED and Belgian technical assistance
seeks to make improved varieties and plant materials and Improvea production
techniques available to small farmers in the high altitudes. Its major
components are: research, seed multiplication, extension, marketing and
distribution of maize, wheat, sweet and white potato, pea and bean seeds. The
primary beneficiaries would be 20,000 families and a special effort is being



- 23 -
made to involve women. The tea projects and the basic food crop project
would not interfere with the proposed third nhase cf the Ngozi project
because they are restricted to the high altitudes along the Zaire-Nile
d:ivide, an area that will not be included in the third phase project. Three
rural nurseries for eucalyptus seedlings are to be established in Ngozi
p-rovince under the forestry project (para. 1.04). A number of other small
p:cojects are being contemplated in the area including a German milk goat
project for the Central Plateau region as a whole (para. 1.18). At present,
there seems to be virtually no coordination mechanism in place for all these
projects.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The main objective of the proposed Project would be to assist small-
holders in the Ngozi Province to improve the productivity of their holdings,
and thereby increase their income, through the provision of inputs, the
strengthening of extension services and the implementation of appropriate
erosion control measures. A second objective would be to improve rural
living conditions by building or maintaining water sources, equipping social
centers and developing wood resources to be used as fuelwood, building poles
and timber. A third objective would be to improve the quality of Burundi-s
coffee by building washing stations. Finally, by putting heavy emphasis on
training and provision of technical assistance, the Project would enhance the
management capability of the RDC (Regional Development Company, paras. 4.21,
5.01 and 5.02). Project activities would cover the whole coffee growing area
of the province which includes altitudes below 1,900 m east of the Zaire-Nile
divide (para. 1.06). This area is inhabited by about 150,000 smallholder farm
families. Food crop development activities would be limited to six communes
only within the coffee growing area and would be aimed at about 75,000
families. Criteria for the selection of these areas would include proximity
to the RDC's headquarters to facilitate supervision of extension staff and
proximity to Gitega and Muramvya provinces to allowq the Kirimiro and Ngozi
projects to benefit from each other's experience (paras. 1.04 and 3.01). The
proposed program would further Government's objectives of increasing agricul-
tural production and improving the living conditions of the rural population.
It would thus continue the work of the first two projects and expand into
other rural development activities (para. 1.01). The Project would be
implemented over about five years and would include the following components:
(a) a program to provide extension services and agricultural inputs
to develop the production of coffee and food crops;
(b) the construction and management of 15 coffee washing stations
and the establishment of better maintenance and management of
hand pulpers;
(c)  reafforestation and erosion control;



- 24 -
(d) a selective improvement of the rural road network, including the
construction of bridges;
(e) the improvement of rural water supply and of social infrastructure;
(f) a pilot swamp development program with special emphasis on the
permanent cultivation of valley bottom lands;
(g) the construction of marketing warehouses;
(h) studies, research, training and project monitoring;
(i) technical assistance for Project implementation; and
(j) the creation of a Regional Development Company (RDC).
4.02      The RDC (para. 5.02) would have principal responsibility for
Project implementation under the general supervision of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Research activities would be carried out mainly by ISABU and
the marketing warehouses would be managed by the Ngozi Cooperative Union
members under a leasing arrangement with-the RDC. The staff employed under
the on-going second coffee improvement project would be absorbed by the
RDC. The Project would be implemented on the basis of annual work plans
prepared by the RDC, reviewed by its Board of Directors (para. 5.02) and the
Ministry of Agriculture and submitted to IDA for approval (para. 5.15). Local
administrative authorities would participate in the Project decision making
process as members of the Board of the RDC. The Project description should be
considered to a certain extent indicative at this stage and provision is made
for modifications during Project implementation if warranted by experience.
B.   Detailed Features
Extension Services
4.03      The objective of this component would be to develop and strengthen the
existing extension services through: (a) the recruitment of additional exten-
sion workers; (b) on-the-job training of both existing and new workers and
(c) provision of continuous training through refresher courses. The training
aspect is dealt with in para. 4.18.  The weakness of the existing extension
workforce is the result of many factors including a very high ratio of farming
units to extension workers (para. 1.30); lack of control and discipline; lack
of basic training and of continuous training and lack of basic data which
reduces the effectiveness of extension work. The ratio of farmers to extension
workers would be improved from 950:1 to 300:1 in the communes covered by the
food crop program and from 950:1 to 600:1 in other areas. This would mean
hiring and training an additional 195 extension workers; 205 are currently
working in the Project area. The extension program to be extended to farmers
would include:  (i) the distribution of inputs such as seeds, seedlings,
tools, fertilizers and pesticides; (ii) the setting up of a network of



- 25 -
demonstration plots; (iii) the teaching of coffee husbandry (spacing, pruning,
mulching, fertilizing, pest control, harvesting anc! drying); and (iv) the
teaching of erosion control measures. Extension workers would also assist
farmers in pesticide application and be responsible for data collection
within the framework of the sample-based monitoring system in order to assess
tlhe progress and improvement of the programs proposed. They would visit
farmers on a systematic basis following the priorities of the extension
program and their work plan would be closely supervised. Extension services
would provide assistance to about 75,000 families in food crop development
and about 150,000 families in coffee development. Coffee husbandry techniques
are well-known and established in the Project area as a result of the first
two coffee projects (paras. 2.01 to 2.12). The food crop farming program
would be simple and would focus on improved seeds, fertilizer use, seeding
and weeding techniques, spacing and disease and insect control. The main
investment items would include vehicles, motorbikes, bicycles, housing,
offices, teaching and other materials as well as incremental operating costs
for the extension services.
Agricultural Inputs
4.04      Inputs would be supplied to farmers in order to:  (a) increase
coffee and food crop production by increasing the yields and where space
permits, the areas cultivated; and (b) fight soil erosion. The combination
of bad pruning and the lack of agricultural inputs use has contributed to
declining yields whereas inadequate erosion contro:l measures have caused
rapid land degradation on individual land holdings (para. 1.07). Government
policy on the import of inputs and their pricing to farmers has not been
consistent over the years and it was agreed at negotiations that based on data
from the monitoring and evalulation systematic surveys (para. 4.19), the
Government would periodically review all aspects of the Borrower's policy
relating to coffee production (para. 7.04) and exchange views with IDA. An
FA0-sponsored fertilizer program in operation since 1972 has yielded results
which suggest that if convinced by experience, the farmers would pay cash for
fertilizers.
4.05      The Coffee Development program would consist of:  (a) the production
of about eight million seedlings from the existing 72 nurseries in the Project
area; these would be distributed to farmers for expansion of plantation where
land is available and for replacement trees in existing plantations; (b) the
production and distribution of setaria (or other grass) rootstocks for the
planting of contour hedges. Research would be undertaken to determine the
most suitable grass or other perennial plant that would also be used for
mulching; and (c) the provision of about 2,200 tons of pesticides and sale of
about 56,000 pruning saws. Inputs would be distributed by the extension
workers and supplied to farmers at cost, except for the pesticides which
would be supplied free of charge and fertilizers on which the current Govern-
ment policy of 25% subsidy would be followed subject to review (para. 4.04).
Farmers' spraying teams would be organized and, under the supervision of
extension workers, they would use the RDCGs spraying equipment. About 400
tons of fertilizers would be applied yearly by Project year four but only by
farmers whose plantations are on good soils, and are properly maintained and
mulched. The extension staff will be responsible for determining which
plaantat-ions are suitabl7e for fertilizer application. The main investment
items would be fertilizers, spraying and pruning tools, and pesticides.



- 26 -
4.06      The Food Crop Development Inputs would include fertilizers mainly
for maize and beans and improved seeds; all of them would be sold to the
farmers at cost.   Some of the criteria for seed selection would be:
(a) early maturity; (b) short cooking time because of the scarcity of fuelwood
(para. 1.21); (c) disease and insect resistance; and (d) increased yield.
Several varieties have already been successfully tested over the years by
ISABU (para. 1.34) and funds would be provided for more research. Rootstocks
of Trypsacum laxum would also be provided for erosion control. Investments
here would be for fertilizers and nursery installations.
Construction and Management of Washing Stations
4.07      The purpose of the washing stations component would be to upgrade
the quality of processed coffee from semi-washed to fully washed, a grade
which fetches a higher price in international markets (para. 7.04). Although
there have been questions about the economic and financial justification
of the washing stations (para. 2.05), recent experience under the on-going
project (para. 2.10) indicates that with good management washing stations can
be a profitable proposition and improve coffee quality. In addition
to building new stations, the Project would support the training of Barundi
staff at all levels within the washing stations department (para. 4.18). A
total of 15 new stations would be built. The main investment items would be
warehouses, drying racks, housing, furniture, pulping machinery and the
operating costs of the washing stations. In certain instances the washing
stations would be fitted with recirculation systems to fight water pollution
(para. 4.30).
Maintenance and Management of Hand Pulping Centers
4.08      Project activities would seek to improve the quality of semi-washed
coffee produced by the farmers in existing hand pulping centers through
better management of those centers. In addition to recruitment and training
(para. 4.18), Project activities would include a transfer of the maintenance
services from OCIBU to the RDC (para. 5.07); their reorganization and the
provision of adequate transportation means to facilitate supervision of the
centers' operation. The main investment items would be a vehicle, bicycles,
housing, a warehouse for spare parts and a repair shop.
Reafforestation and Erosion Control
4.09      The Forestry Program:  The main objective of this program would be
to provide fuelwood, poles and timber which are in very short supply in the
region and the country generally. Other forestry activities would include the
planting of bare mountain tops, the planting of shelter belts on grazing land
and the replanting of existing communal plantations and the planting of
private and individual wood lots. About 2,500 ha would be planted with trees
over about two and a half years in the form of crestline plantations and
shelter belts on grazing land. This program would not start until Project
year 3 so as not to overburden the extension staff and would be carried out by
the forestryj services of the R1DC Uxndet the supervisioa oi an agronomist with
forestry experience; it is in line with the Government's objective of creating
individual fuelwood lots for farmers. Seedlings would be produced by the RDC and



- 27 -
supplied to the farmers at cost. The nurseries of the on-going forestry
project would be utilized where appropriate to avoid duplication of effort
(para. 3.15). The major investment items would be: housing, a pick-up truck,
motorcycles, fencing and planting materials, labor and other operating costs
for the extension services.
4.10      The Erosion Control Program would aim at controlling soil erosion
and soil degradation. The program would consist of the planting of anti-ero-
sion hedges on individual holdings, controlled burning and controlled grazing
on communal land and tree planting.  Farmers active participation would be
sought in planting contour hedges of useful grasses and perennial leguminous
plants. The main investment items would be fencing and planting materials for
the multiplication centers, transportation equipment:, labor and other operat-
ing costs.
Rural Road Network Improvement
4.11      The road improvement component would be aimed at facilitating
thie shipment of coffee from the washing stations by heavier trucks and would
concentrate on building key bridges, constructing access roads to newly built
washing stations and maintaining a limited, number of frequently utilized
roads.    Secondary roads maintenance would continue to be carried out by the
communes via "community labor" (para. 1.40). The Project would include
financing for construction of about 30 km of new roads, maintenance of 140 km
of existing road and building of about 30 bridges to be identified by the
R)C. The major investment items would be materials, small tools and operating
costs.
Water Supply
4.12      An objective of the Project would be to improve the maintenance of
the existing water supply scheme and to develop newt springs and wells.
Financing would be provided for the construction of about 440 water sources
to be carried out through UNICEF (para. 4.26). The main investment items
would be equipment materials, supplies and wages.
Social Services
4.13      The objective of the social services program would be to increase
the efficiency of the social centers which are lacking in equipment, buildings,
trained manpower and transportation means (para. 3.09). The main investment
items would be a vehicle, equipment, materials, supplies, and training costs
(para. 4.18) to improve the running of about five centers.
IPilot Swamp Development
4.14      About 15,000 ha (6% of total land area) in the Project area is made
up of cultivated swamps. The pilot swamp development program would seek to:
(a) improve the dry season farming of valley bottom lands; (b) explore the
feasibility of rainy season cropping; and (c) learn more about the behavior
of valley bottoms and peat lands in Burundi. The traditional cultivation of
-valley bottom lands entails many risks, including land subsidence and untimely
floods which are likely to damage crops; in addition it requires a high labor



- 28 -
input for a relatively low return. A more rational exploitation would allevi-
ate pressure on land and increase agricultural productivity. If the pilot
project produces favorable results, lands comparable to those of the pilot
area could be used for all season valley bottom cropping. The results of an
on-going nation-wide peat typology survey would determine the surface area of
such lands. A suitable 20 ha pilot area has tentatively been identified, the
"Karamba Swamp", about five and a half kilometers south of the Ngozi town.
Should this site not be available, any other suitable location acceptable to
IDA would be made available by Government. A potential new site would have to
satisfy the following criteria: (i) it should be representative of the
conditions prevailing in most valley bottom lands in the Project area;
(ii) it should not require major infrastructural work; (iii) it should be
located close to the RDC headquarters in Ngozi town for easy access; and
(iv) it should already be regularly farmed by peasants during the rainy
season. The pilot program would consist of setting up a basic flood protec-
tion and water control system, working with farmers to cultivate rainy season
crops such as rice on an experimental basis, and working with farmers in
the pilot area and elsewhere in Ngozi to improve dry season cultivation
techniques. The following crops would be used for trials: beans, maize,
sweet potatoes, potatoes and pineapple, all of which are currently being
farmed in the Project area. The main investment items would be recording and
measurement equipment, civil works, vehicles, buildings and operating costs.
Should the location identified as suitable for the pilot program be unavail-
able, the Government would employ a land use specialist and a cartographer to
select another site. IDA's approval of the selected site would be a condition
of disbursement against investments in the pilot program.
Marketing Warehouses
4.15      The purpose of this component would be to assist the cooperatives
in their efforts to improve the marketing of food crops in the Project area.
The ILO-assisted cooperative development project (para. 1.23) has started
to market food crops but is hindered by a lack of appropriate storage facil-
ities. The Project would support the building of 10 warehouses in Ngozi
province. The RDC would own and lease them to the Ngozi Cooperative Union
(para. 3.11). The main investment items would be materials and supplies,
office and weighing equipment and labor.
Studies, Research, Training and Project Monitoring
4.16      Studies:  Livestock development faces severe constraints (para.
1.17) including the lack of a clearly defined Government livestock policy.
Given the lack of data and confusion in several policy issues, a systematic
analysis and review of the livestock subsector is urgently required.
The proposed study under the Project would seek to help Government estab-
lish a balanced national livestock development policy taking into account
the different potentials of the livestock breeding regions. The terms
of reference of the study would involve census taking of livestock popu-
lation nation-wide to obtain a more realistic picture of ownership in
the countly, a socio-economic study of farmers attitudes towards livestock



- 29 -
and exploration of possible ways to influence it. The terms of reference
would also include a comparative study of the different regio- n      a5 
livestock including their carrying capacity, their production system±s, Lhe
theoretical and actual patterns of land use between livestock and crop
farming and the need for regional specialization and a study of livestock
marketing and proposals for a rationalization of livestock production,
including a destocking policy and ways to implement it. The main investment
items would be consultants fees and transportation and salaries of Barundi
staff to be employed for the study. Funds for the preparation of future
studies or Project preparation related to rural development and for a study to
determine the level of water pollution caused by the existing washing stations
(para. 2.10 and 4.30) have also been included in Project costs. For all
studies or Project preparation work, both terms of reference and proposed
contracts should be submitted to IDA for approval. IDA should also approve
procedures of selection of consultants. Assurances were received on this at
negotiations.
4.17      Research:  Coffee and Food Crop Production:  The Project would
support the ISABU Coffee and food crop research program and would focus
on: (a) testing of coffee varieties for yield improvement and resistance
to pest and diseases with special emphasis on small coffee trees; (b) fertil-
izer field trials on coffee and food crops; (c) coffee husbandry, specifically
mulching; (d) control of fungus diseases, correlation between soil types and
yields in coffee plantations; (e) investigation of the causes and possible
cure of "potato taste" and other flavor problems; (f) mixed food crop systems;
(g) development of valley bottoms for agricultural production (para. 4.14);
and (h) adaptation of food crop varieties in the area. Proposals would be
made to ISABU by the RDC concerning the major orientations of research needs
and activities and submitted to IDA for approval at the beginning of each
year in the annual work program. Assurances were received on this at
negotiations. The RDC would operate two food crop seed multiplication and
trial stations (para. 6.01) in collaboration with ISABU. The main investment
items would be housing, vehicles, and the operating costs necessary to
conduct research. Limited technical assistance (para. 4.20) would also be
fiLnanced.
4.18      Training.  The objectives of the training program would be to
upgrade the existing extension staff, to reinforce the management of the
washing stations, to improve the maintenance and supervision of the hand
pulping centers, and generally, to establish and develop the management
capability of the RDC.  The types of training to be provided would include:
(a) initial orientation at induction of new staff; (b) phased basic training
for existing or new staff in skills and knowledge required for new technology
or procedures; and (c) refresher training and in-service training for existing
staff. Training would also be provided for superv:isory staff and, in a number
of instances, training in other countries would be provided through fellowships
and study tours. The training of field extension workers and of washing
station services  personnel would receive a high priority.  About 195 new
extension workers would be hired and trained along with five supervisory
level positions and about 100 operating personnel for the washing stations.
Extension staff training would be the responsibility of an internationally
recruited training and extension specialist (para. 4.20) and washing station
personnel training would be done by the manager in collaboration with the



training specialist. Some 54 socla.l workers would be trained at the Gitega
training  center sponsored by the Ministry of Social Affairs.  Their training
program would consist of a basic five-month course followed by two months of
practical training. Finally, one month would be used for evaluation. The
main investment items would inciude a training center, teaching material,
housing, a vehicle, labor, wages and operating costs. Fellowships for training
outside the country would also be financed, including fellowships for BCC staff.
4.19      Project Monitoring and Evaluation:  Given the lack of reliable data
(para. 2.12), a system of monitoring and evaluation would be established
(para. 5.17).  This would involve a preliminary study of farm production
systems, yields, use of inputs and marketing in the Project area. A represen-
tative sample of farmers would be randomly selected, followed closely and
would serve as a reference to evaluate the impact of the Project. Data would
be collected by enumerators under the supervision of the expatriate extension
and training specialist. The design of the monitoring and evaluation format
would be done by the RDC manager, the expatriate agronomist and the extension
specialist in close collaboration with the Kirimiro management team (paras.
1.04 and 4.01). Investments items are included in extension (para. 4.03),
technical assistance (para. 4.20) and training (para. 4.18).
Technical Assistance
4.20      Internationally-recruited specialists would be required to strengthen
the RDC management capability (paras. 5.01 to 5.13) and to train its personnel.
They would perform tasks for which the required expertise is not locally
available.  Internationally recruited personnel to be employed include an
agronomist for about 48 staff-months; an extension and training expert for
about 48 staff-months; a washing stations manager for about 48 staff-months;
an accounting and finance manager for about 48 staff-months; a land use
specialist for about 48 staff-months, a bacteriologist for coffee research for
48 staff-months, a topographer for six staff-months and a draftsman for three
staff-months. The two latter would be short-term consultants working on the
pilot program (para. 4.14). Consultants would be recruited for five staff-
months for coffee research. Their terms of reference would also be submitted
to IDA for approval. The average staff-month cost of the specialists (based
on individual's fees, international travel and excluding provision of local
housing and transportation facilities) would vary between US$6,500 and US$8,000
per month. IDA would be consulted on the recruitment of internationally
recruited personnel whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employ-
ment would be submitted for its approval. Assurances were received to that
effect at negotiations. Recruitment of technical assistance would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. The terms of reference of technical
assistants were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations. It was further
agreed that they would be granted the necessary authority to carry out their
responsibilities pursuant to their terms of reference.
Creation of a Regional Development Company
4.21      A Regional Development Company (RDC) has already been created by
presidential decree No. 100/36 of March 3, 1981. It will have primary



- 31 -
responsibility for project implementation and will report to a board of
directors (para. 1.29) and will absorb the staff employed under the on-going
Ngozi II Project. About 50% of the RDC costs would be for capital investments
such as buildings, housing, equipment and vehicles and the remainder would be
for salaries and equipment and vehicle operating costs. Creation of the RDC
is a condition of effectiveness. More details on the RDC are given in paras.
5.01 to 5.05).
C. Project Costs
4.22             Total Project costs are estimated at about FBu 2,957 million
(US$28.9 million), of which about FBu 1,678 million (US$18.6 million) or 64%
represent foreign exchange costs. DetFils are sunmarized in the following
table.
FBu mfllion                                                7. of Total
0Bu                  6tllion _ us$¢ Base Costs
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total    7. Couts de
Locale   Devises    Total        Locale   D:viscs    Total    Ba.e Totaax
OMC0POSANTES
Extenslon Services and Inputs              25       318         393        850       3550       4400         21            Vulgcrisation & Intrants
Washing Stations & HandPulpers            164       226         390       1800       2500       4300         21            Usines de lavage et Centres
de depulpage maIluel
Reaffo:restation & Erosion Control        171        15         186       1900        200       2100         12            Reafiorestatiun & Lutte Antierusione
Rural IRoad Network Improvement            20        48          68        250        500        750          4            Programs,e routier
W,tter :;upply & Social Centers             9        29          38        100        300        400          1            Adduction d'eau & Centres sociaux
Pilot Swamp Development                     7        12          19         50        150        200          2            Projet pilote des marais
Karket:ing & Warehouses                     7        23          30        150        200        350          3            Comsorcialisation & Magasins
Studie;, Research & Training               63        91         154        700       1000       1700          8            Etudes, Rechercher 6 Formatio-.
Techni. al Assistance                       -       252         252          -       2800       2800         13            Assista,ce technique
Regional Development Company              135       177         312       1500       2000       3500          17            Societe Regionale de Developpement
AUDIT                                       -        10          10          -        100        100          _             AUDIT
TOTAL EASE COSTS                          651      1201        1852        7300      13300      20600                       COUTS DE BASE 'WTAUX
CONTI3E;ENCY ALLOKANCES                                   .PREVUS
Phys:,cal contingencies                  67       119         186        800       1300       2100                          Imprevus physiques
Price contingencies                     201       358         559       2200       4000       6200                         Ilmprevns des prix
Totalt Contingeccieo                    268       477         745       3000        5300       8300                         Total des Imprevus
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        919      1678        2597      1MO0O       18600      28900                       COUTS TOTAUX DU PROJET
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 32 -
The above costs are incremental and do not include salaries for the existing
extension work force which amount to about FBu 25 million (about US$300,000)
and should be paid for by the Government. They do include, however, the RDC-s
operating costs since its establishment represents an investment cost. The
RDC's operating costs include equipment and vehicle maintenance and operating
costs, utility and building maintenance costs and staff salaries (para. 4.21).
Project costs were estimated as of June 30, 1981. A physical contingency of
10% was applied to reflect general uncertainty about the detailed scope of
Project investments. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumultative
basis. Local costs price contingencies were taken at 15% for 1981, 12% for
1982, 1983 and 1984, and 10% for 1985.  Contingencies for foreign exchange
costs were applied at a rate of 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983, 6.7% in
1984 and 6.5% in 1985. Taxes and duties included in Project costs are negli-
gible since virtually all items would be exempt from taxes and duties.
Details of Project costs are summarized in Table 1.
D. Financing
4.23      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
FBu          US$
(million)    (million)      %
Government of Burundi             260          2.9        10
IFAD                              630          7.0        24
Kuwait Fund                       270           3.0       10
IDA                            1,437          16.0        56
Total Project Costs       2,597          28.9       100
4.24      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 14.2 million would be made to the
Government of Burundi on standard IDA terms.  It would finance about 56% of
total Project costs, including 100% of foreign exchange or 90% of total costs
for the components being financed. An IFAD (International Fund for Agricul-
tural Development) loan for SDR 6.25 million for 50 years at 1% interest
with a ten year grace period would finance about 24% of total Project costs.
Items which the IDA Credit and IFAD loan would finance on a joint basis
are indicated below (para 4.27). A Kuwait Fund loan of about US$3.0 million
would finance the following items: vehicles motorcycles and bicycles ($1.0
million); rural roads network ($1.0 million); warehouses ($0.5 million) and
pilot marshland development ($0.5 million). Effectiveness of the IFAD and the
Kuwait Fund loans is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit. The
Government of Burundi would contribute about 10% of total Project costs.
4.25      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government counterpart
funds would be made available to the RDC on a quarterly basis. Each quarterly
installmet ,would Tepresent one-fourth of the yearly estimated contribution
and would be deposited in the RDC Central Bank account no later than the end



- 33 -
of the first month of the quarter.  Deposit of the first instaliPieitn  fE ', the
initial applicable quarter would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The
Government would also make available to the RDC the subsidy funds when applic-
able and the foreign exchange necessary so meet the recurrent annual needs for
fertilizers and chemicals. Assurances were received on this at negotiations.
The Government has requested and been granted US$500,000 under the IDA Project
Preparation Facility to finance the construction of housing and training
facilities, the hiring of a training and extension expert and the preliminary
coffee research activities. Amounts disbursed would be reimbursed from the
IDA Credit account. After Project implementation and starting in Project year
5, Government would have to contribute about US$1.2 million to the operating
costs of the RDC. Project funds would be channelecd to the RDC by the Govern-
ment during and after Project implementation in the form of grants or equity
(para. 5.02). Regarding the prefinancing of Project costs, the RDC would
sign an agreement with CAMOFI (Caisse de Molibisat:ion et de Financement), a
parastatal finance company (para. 1.38). Pursuant to this agreement, the
Government would guarantee to bear all charges, fees and interests to be
incurred under the line of credit should the RDC be unable to meet its commit-
ments. An account would be opened for the RDC in a commercial bank in Ngozi.
This agreement, the Government's guarantee and the opening of the RDC Bank
account would be conditions of Credit effectiveness. Under the on-going
project, the project unit has regularly obtained local short-term financing to
purchase cherries during the coffee season for the washing stations. The
processed coffee was then hulled by OCIBU (para. 1.33) for a fee and sold to
BCC. Revenues obtained were used to repay the seasonal credit, to pay for the
hulling fees to OCIBU and to meet the running costs of the stations. CAMOFI
would now also be used for these seasonal credit needs.
E. Procurement
4.26      For the supply of fertilizers and chemicals (about US$3.0 million)
including contingencies, individual contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Contracts for materials, tools, vehicles and equipment other
than washing station equipment (about US$3.6 million) costing less than
US$100,000 individually would be awarded following Government procurement
procedures which were examined at appraisal and found satisfactory, with
the provision that quotations would be sought fromn all suppliers represented
in Burundi and offering adequate guarantees of service and supply of parts.
The staff of the on-going Project (para. 2.09) that would be absorbed
by the RDC (para. 4.21) is competent to carry out all procurement work and
would continue to do so. To provide continuity in the operation of washing
stations and facilitate maintenance, it would be advisable to purchase the
same type of machines and equipment that is already installed in the existing
washing stations. The value of the machinery and equipment to be procured
under the Project would be about US$1.2 million and they would be purchased
directly from existing suppliers. Construction of staff housing, training
facilities, offices, warehouses, roads and bridges would be done by force
account. Performance of these tasks by the on-going Project's construction
department has been satisfactory at a cost consistently and considerably
lower than would have been the case with the use of the local private con-
struction industry. Implementation of the water supply component would be



- 34 -
carried out by UNICEF through its team which is implementing a similar
project nation-wide. Assurances as to all the above were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Disbursements
4.27      Funds from the Credit Account of IDA and IFAD-s Loan Account
would be disbursed on the following basis over four and a half years:
IDA        IFAD   TOTAL
(US$ million)
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of               IDA: 15.2
local expenditures for equipment, vehicles            IFAD: 6.9
and farm inputs, including fertilizers and         To be allocated
pesticides                                         according to annual
work plans on the
(b)  90% of total expenditures for civil works          basis of 70% for
and infrastructure                                 IDA and 30% for
IFAD.
(c) 90% of total expenditures for incremental
operating costs for Project implementation
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for technical
assistance
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for the equipment of
social centers and the training of social
workers                                            .04         .02      .06
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for National Livestock
Policy Studies                                     .22         .09      .31
(g) Reimbursement of advance under the Project
Preparation Facility                               .5
Total                            16.0         7.0    23.0
Disbursements will be made jointly by IDA and IFAD on a 70/30 ratio except for
the refunding of the PPF.  Disbursements against (a), and (d) would be fully
documented. Disbursements against (b), (c) and (e) would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the RDC director and the administrative
and finance manager for local expenditures and against full documentation for
foreign exchange costs.  A full dQcu:aettatiovL vGIl& ble reta-ea by th  RMC --
made available to IDA for inspection in the course of normal Project supervi-
sion. An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in Table 3. The
Kuwait Fund loan would be disbursed as follows: 100% of foreign expenditures



- 35 -
anid 90% of local expenditures for vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, rural roads
nestwork, warehouses and pilot marshland development. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that all expenditures would be made in accordance with annual
work programs and budgets (para. 5.15).
G. Accounts and Audits
4.28      The RDC would maintain records and accounts adequate to explain
all Project activities.  These accounts and the statements of expenditure
would be audited separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
would be submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. The auditors would specifically review and comment on the
procedures used for control of disbursEment against statements of expenditure.
Assurances were received to that effect at negotiations. The first task of
independent auditors would be to audit the accounts of the on-going Ngozi II
E'roject which have never been audited by an external auditor. Independent
auditors acceptable to IDA have already been selected and the auditing of
Ngozi II accounts would be a condition of effectiveness.
H. Environmental Impact
Soil Conservation
4.29      Rapid deforestation is a principal factor in the erosion and degra-
dlation of the soils in the Project area and represents a serious threat to
its ecological balance. The reafforestation and erosion control component
would assist the Government's efforts to control this process of degradation
by providing erosion control measures.
Water Pollution
4.30      Indiscriminate disposal of the effluent from coffee washing stations
may cause considerable pollution of water for domestic and agricultural use.
Although the Government has not yet proposed or enacted any legislation with
regard to water conservation, the Project would provide suitable water
recirculation/disposal systems for a limited number of coffee washing stations
in those instances where it is felt that the return of coffee factory effluent
to the rivers would cause an unacceptable level of pollution. Funds are
provided for a study of pollution caused by existing washing stations
(para. 4.18).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization and Staff
General
5.01      This chapter reviews the overall organization and management of the
RDC and the different Project components. In an effort to provide for a more



- 36 -
integrated and flexible approach to rural development, the Government has
decided that one of the main objectives of the third Five-Year Development
Plan (1978-1982) would be the restructuring of the rural sector. In contrast
to the first two five-year plans which concentrated on the development of cash
crops, the third one has more diversified objectives which include food crop
development, reafforestation and erosion control. The programs to achieve
these objectives would be carried out by newly created regional development
companies, which would eventually cover part, if not all of their expenditures
with their own earnings. Government would be their sole equity holder. Their
main function would be to become gradually responsible for all rural develop-
ment related activities including the delivery of agricultural inputs and the
implementation of specific projects financed either by the Government or by
external donors. To date, four RDCs have already been created (para. 1.36)
but not all of them necessarily implement integrated rural development schemes
or work on a regional basis. This reflects the still evolving nature of the
RDC concept and the uncertainties still surrounding the scope of their activi-
ties and their relations with existing local and national administrative
units. Like many other parastatals in Burundi, some of them are experiencing
acute financial and management problems.
5.02      In line with this policy (para. 5.01), the Government has created
the Buyenzi Regional Development Company which would have principal responsi-
bility for Project implementation under the general supervision of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Its equity has been provided by an initial Government grant
and until it becomes a financially viable entity, its investment and operating
funds would mainly be derived from Government grants (para. 4.25). The RDC is
basically a parastatal and it is not expected to become financially viable in
the foreseeable future because its commercially oriented activities are very
limited in scope (see RDC cash flow on table 5-A). Its governing bodies are:
(a) the Board of Directors; (b) the Management Committee; and (c) two con-
trollers appointed by the Minister of Finance. The Board of Directors is
chaired by the manager of OCIBU as the representative of the Minister of Agri-
culture and Livestock and includes six other Ministers or their representatives
(Finance, Social Affairs, and Rural Development), the Governor of Ngozi
Province, a farmers" representative and a cooperative movement representative
nominated by the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Rural Development
respectively. The Management Committee is made up of the RDC manager and his
deputies but could also include farmers' representatives. The responsi
bilities of the Board are: (i) RDC policy making; (ii) review and approval of
the RDC annual work programs and annual investment and operating budgets
before their submission to the Minister of Agriculture (para. 5.14); and (iii)
review and control of current and past performance. The Board of Directors is
also responsible for ensuring that Government development policies are imple-
mented through the RDC.  It is required to meet at least four times a year,
based upon its chairman's proposal concerning the date, the place and the
agenda of the meeting. The RDC manager should participate in the meetings of
the Board of Directors on a consultative basis. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would not alter the composition of the Board
without informing IDA sufficiently in advance.
5.03      Responsibility for day-to-day Project implementation is vested in
the RDC manager. Under the on-going Ngozi II Project, a specialized depart-
ment created within OCIBU and headed by a Murundi was responsible for project



- 37 -
implementation (para. 2.10). This department has become the nucleus around
which the RDC will develop; it has been detached from OCIBU. The RDC is
headed by a Murundi and consists of the following departments: the Accounting
ancd Finance Department, the Agricultural Services Department, the Training and
Ext:ension Department, the Construction Department an,d the Technical Department
(Chart 3). With he exception of the Agricultural Services Department, all
departments will be initially headed by internationaLlly recruited technical
assistants. Subject to satisfactory performance, the Barundi staff will
gradually assume more responsibilities and replace the expatriates. In
addition, a research and studies section is under the direct supervision of
the RDC manager. Staff support is provided by a general services section.
5.04      Staffing.  To insure satisfactory Project implementation, it would
be important to have sufficient Barundi staff hired in addition to the
technical assistance team. Staff required for Project activities would
in;zlude 46 for the RDC headquarters, 180 for the hand pulping centers, 150
for the washing stations, 204 for the extension services and four for the
pilot swamp program. Details of this personnel hiring schedule are given in
Table 3. Under the statutes of existing RDC's, all key national personnel
are appointed by the Chief of State based on proposals from the Minister of
Agriculture and it is expected that this will apply to Ngozi III. The terms
of reference of all key Barundi personnel (RDC manager and key officers in
each department) were discussed at negotiations and assurances were obtained
that IDA would be consulted on appointments and employment to these positions.
To ensure management continuity, assurances were received that all key posi-
tions would be staffed at all times during the life of the Project. The
appointment of the RDC manager, the training officer, the washing station
officer, the chief accountant and the chief of agricultural services would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness. In order to alleviate problems of high
staff turnover which are frequent in Burundi, Government gave assurances at
negotiations that it would cause the RDC to establish a compensation plan to
offer adequate incentives to its staff, in particular by providing for merit
allowances.
B. Management of Project Components
5.05      Agricultural and Extension Services.  The provision of agricultural
inputs and extension services would be the responsibility of the RDC's Rural
Development Department headed by an internationally recruited extension and
training specialist assisted by a Murundi training officer and a Murundi rural
development officer. All the extension work force of about 205 now working
under the Ngozi II Project would be absorbed by the RDC. Inputs would be
i:aported by the RDC procurement unit and distributed to farmers by extension
agents.  Extension activities would involve principally advice to and training
of farmers (para. 4.03). Improved seeds would be produced by the RDC's two
seed multiplication centers (para. 4.17). Coffee tree seedlings would be pro-
duced in nurseries managed by hill extension workers and supervised by the RDC.
Extension workers at the "hill level" (para. 1.40) would visit farmers grouped
in teams within their sector for practical training sessions (para. 4.03).
Agronomists at the commune level would coordinate all extension activities at
thelr level and report directly to the "agronome d"arrondissement" (para.
1 40) who in turn would report to RDC headquarters.



- 38 -
5.06      Construction and Management of Washing Stations.  Washing stations
would be built by the RDC's Construction Department. Their management would
be done by Barundi washing station personnel supervised and supported at the
RDC headquarters level by an internationally recruited technical manager, a
Murundi technical officer and two Barundi assistants as is the case now under
Ngozi II: one for administrative, the other for technical matters. Spare
parts would be procured and utilization managed at the RDC headquarters. A
central repair and maintenance team would be responsible for all the stations.
Among the expatriate's important responsibilities would be training of key
Barundi staff (para. 5.13).  A nation-wide technical committee would be set up
by December 31 1981 to define technical operating norms and monitor the RDC's
compliance with them. This committee would be made up of representatives from
OCIBU, BCC, and the RDC and would report to the Board of Directors. Assurances
were obtained on this at negotiations.
5.07      Maintenance of Hand Pulping Centers.  Responsibility for maintenance
of hand pulping centers would be transferred from OCIBU to the RDC and would
be supervised by the expatriate technical manager and the corresponding key
Barundi staff. There would be one provincial technician responsible for
overall program supervision. He would have a pickup truck, the services of a
driver-mechanic and a centralized parts warehouse. Below him would be one
assistant per commune or every two communes who would control the work of one
agent per hand pulping center hired just for the four months of the coffee
harvesting season.
5.08      Reafforestation and Erosion Control.  The reafforestation and
erosion control program would be implemented by the Rural Development Depart-
ment of the RDC under the supervision of the extension and training specialist
working closely with the other expatriate agronomist.
5.09      The Rural Road Network as well as the marketing warehouses would be
built by the Construction Department.
5.10      The agricultural activities of the Pilot Swamp Development Program
would be carried out by the RDC Rural Development Department which would have
a Murundi agronomist stationed full time at the pilot swamp site. Extension
work would be done by the regular RDC extension agent. A Murundi civil
engineer would work with the expatriate engineer to manage the water control
works at the site. The Rural Works Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
and ISABU would be kept informed of the developments of the pilot program.
5.11      Warehouses and Centers.  Social centers would be under the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. The centers where the
required equipment would be installed would be selected by the Ministry and
submitted to IDA for approval in the annual work program (para. 5.15).
Criteria for IDA approval would include the availability of adequate personnel
and space in the proposed center. Assurances to this effect would be sought
at negotiations. Marketing warehouses would be managed by cooperative union
members. The building of each warehouse would require careful review and
approval by the Board of Directors of the RDC and would be included in annual
work programs. Assurances were obtained on this effect at negotiations.



- 39 -
5.12      Studies and Research:  Livestock studies would be done by inter-
nationally-recruited consultants. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
would have responsibility for the hiring of consultants, the drafting of
their terms of reference and the supervision of their work. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Ministry of Agriculture would undertake
this task, that the consultants' terms of reference would be submitted to
IDA for approval as a condition of disbursement against this sub-component.
Research would be carried out mainly by ISABU under an agreement to be entered
into between the RDC and ISABU reviewed by the Ministry of Agriculture and
submitted to IDA for approval in the annual work program (para. 4.17).
5.13      Training programs would be prepared by the RDC manager, assisted by
the RDC staff as appropriate, as part of the annual work program to be reviewed
by the Minister of Agriculture and submitted to IDA for approval (para. 5.15).
The main responsibility for carrying cut the training program would rest with
the technical assistance team under the overall supervision of the RDC manager.
5.14      Local authorities would provide their contribution to decision
making on Project activities through their participation in the Board of
Directors (para. 5.02). Coordination with other projects in the area would be
done by the RDC management team of technical assistants and key Barundi staff
who would be part of the Management Committee (para. 5.02). The committee
would report any coordinating problems to the Board of Directors which would
take appropriate action or, if necessary, refer the matter to the Minister of
Agriculture. The RDC management would ensure coordination and contacts with
other Government institutions as appropriate, including in particular ISABU
and OCIBU.
Annual Work Programs
5.15      The main objective of annual work programs is to facilitate a full
annual review of Project implementation progress by both the Government and
IDA and to make possible adjustments and/or modifications as experience is
gained. They would also serve as a planning implementation and monitoring
tool. Work programs would be submitted to the RDC's Board of Directors for
discussion and review, to the Ministry of Agriculture for review and finally
to IDA for review and approval. Draft annual work programs would be submitted
to IDA for comments before being presented to the board of directors.
Assurances were obtained at neotiations that annual work programs and budgets
would be submitted to IDA for its review and approval no later than June 15 of
the year preceding the year of the work program and budget and promptly after
each resolution of the RDC's Board of Directors adopting such annual Work
Program.  IDA's approval of the work program would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the activities undertaken during that year. The submission of the
first work program covering the period of September 1981 to December 1982
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. More details on the contents of
the work programs are given in Annex I.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
5.16      The Project would be implemented over a period of about four and a
half years starting September 1, 1980. Table 6 shows a tentative Project



- 40 -
Implementation Schedule to be discussed during negotiations. The existence of
a management team under the Ngozi II Project along with office and transporta-
tion facilities would help avoid any development delays in the start up of
Project activities. All the key Barundi staff now employed under the on-going
project would be kept and would become RDC employees. OCIBU would continue
to carry out its current activities (para. 1.33) except that it would no
longer be involved in activities managed by the RDC in the Project area. To
facilitate a timely start up of certain activities, a Project Preparation
Facility (para. 4.25) advance has been requested by the Government to finance
the purchase of some equipment, the building of warehouses and housing and the
recruitment of expatriate personnel. Table 7 gives details of activities
financed under the PPF.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      Monitoring and evaluation would focus on:  (a) extension activities
at the field level; (b) input procurement, production and distribution at the
RDC level; and (c) non-agricultural activities such as washing station
management civil works and training. Monitoring and evaluation of all
agricultural activities would be an integral part of the extension programs
to be carried out. The monitoring and evaluation unit, which will include the
RDC manager, the chief of agricultural services, the internationally recruited
agronomist and the extension and training specialist would be set up to design
a form for data collection by extension workers and to process them. A
Murundi agronomist would be employed as coordinator of the monitoring and
evaluation efforts at the RDC. The commune agronomist, with the assistance
of the zone agronomist, would be responsible for coordination at field level.
At the start of Project activities, a basic sampling survey would be made in
close collaboration with the Kirimiro Project management team to determine the
initial level and scope of agricultural activities. Monitoring and evaluation
of RDC level activities would be done through regular progress reports issued
by the department heads concerned. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a consolidated semi-annual and annual Project Progress Reports would be
prepared and submitted to IDA no later than three months following the end of
the period covered by the report. Key indicators to be emphasized in such
reports would include, for agricultural activities, quantities and values of
inputs produced or procured and distributed, number of demonstration plots,
yields for major crops, coffee production, visits by extension workers,
numbers of farmers contacted and an estimation of their adoption of the
technical package, census of coffee tree population; for construction activi-
ties, it would include results achieved as compared to objectives; for erosion
control, length of grass hedges planted; for the washing stations, the number
of those built and in operation along with the operating results. Funds are
provided for consultancy services to review the monitoring and evaluation
system if needed after two years. Terms of reference of any consultancy
contract would be submitted to IDA for approval. Assurances were obtained to
that effect at negotiations.



- 41 -
Project Completion Report
5.18      The RDC would prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) no later
than six months after the expected closing date (i.e. September 30, 1986).
The PCR would summarize Project performance, evaluate its successes and
problems and underline useful lessons to be taken into account in the future
design and implementation of similar projects. Assurances were obtained
on this at negotiations.
VI. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Agricultural Production
6.01      Given the limited know-how and resources of the farmers in the
Project area, the technical improvements proposed under the Project would be
integrated into the traditional farming system in an effort to strengthen it.
Specific activities would include the provision of improved seeds and cut-
tings, fertilizers and the training of farmers. Two seed multiplication
centers of about 10 ha would be operated (para. 4.17). One is already
functioning under Ngozi II and a tentative site for a second one has already
been identified. When demand exceeds the production capacity of the centers,
seeds would be purchased from farmers. The centers would produce improved
seeds of maize, beans and sorghum and conduct trials. About 500 demonstration
plots would be set up in the six communes covered by the food crop program,
not only to train and educate farmers but also to produce cuttings of improved
varieties of cassava and sweet potatoes. The plots would be located on the
lots of the more progressive farmers. In collaboration with ISABU, an
avocado tree nursery would be set up. Seed production in the centers would
be as follows:
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
No. of Centers                        1           1           2           2
Annual Production per center                          -tons-
Maize                            0.1         0.4         1.2        2.0
Beans                            0.8         2.0        3.8         5.4
Farmers would be encouraged to rearrange the pattern of existing banana
stands and to keep from expanding them because of the negative impact this
would have on food production and to increase food production without having
a negative effect on banana production. In the case of beans, in-row and
drill seeding would be demonstrated to farmers drawing on results obtained by
ISABU. Adoption rates for the food crop program are expected to vary from
C0 to 5% for the first year to about 40% by Project year 10 depending on the
crops and the elements of the program involved.
6.02      Mulching material would be partially provided through the erosion
control program (para. 4.10). A farm of 84 ares has been used to illustrate



- 42 -
the likely impact of the recommended program based on the likely adoption of
the whole program or elements thereof. The farm includes both food crops and
coffee and represents the average farm size in the area. It has been estimated
that after 10 years, about 40% of the 75,000 farm-families in the six communes
covered by both the food crop and coffee program would have adopted most of
the measures recommended. The following farm models have been used:
(i) the base case representing the actual situation at the end
of the Ngozi II Project, i.e. the beginning of the proposed
Project;
(ii) without technical improvements after 10 years;
(iii) with improved seeds and fertilizers;
(iv) with coffee husbandry practices only;
(v) as for (iv) but with fertilizer application; and
(vi) as for (iv) with the addition of the densification
and/or expansion program.
6.03      The yields that would be expected after 10 years are shown below.
Without the Project, it is assumed that yields would decrease by 0.5% per
annum for food crops as a result of poor farming practices which lead to soil
degradation.  Crops shown are those for which some activities are planned:
Mi        (ii)      (iii)       (iv)       (v)       (vi)
Bananas      )            7,000      7,000      7,000      7,000     7,000      7,000
Beans        )               650       620      1,150        NA 1/     NA         NA
Maize        )    kg/ha      700       665      1,350        NA         NA        NA
Cassava      )            5,000      4,500      6,100        NA         NA        NA
Sweet potato)             6,400      6,080      8,900        NA        NA         NA
Groundnuts  )               600        570        950        NA        NA         NA
Coffee: gr/tree             450        450        NA         550       660        660
kg/ha               890        890       NA       1,087      1,350      1,760
1/   NA = Not applicable.
These yields are only indicative of what would happen if all the proposed
measures were adequately adopted, they do not represent what is expected to
happen as the result of the Project.
6.04      After 10 years and assuming an overall adoption rate of about 40%
for food crops and 35% to 40% for coffee, the production levels would be
expected to be as follows:



- 43 -
Start of the Project             After 10 Years
No. of  Production                Without       With
Farms       (kg)      Total       Project      Project  Increase
(tons)      (tons)      (tons)    (tons)   %
Beans        75,000     95       7,125         6,750        9,450    2,700   40
Maize        75,000      84      6,300         6,000        8,800    2,800   47
Cassava      75,000    500      37,500        33,750       43,370    9,620   28
Groundnuts  75,000    600          900           855        1,065       210   25
Total Food Crop                 51,825        47,355       62,685   15,330   32
Coffee      150,000     80      12,400        12,400       15,705    3,305   27
The percentage increases shown represent a realistic estimate of overall
expected increases in the Project area at full development as a result of
the adoption by some farmers of parts of the technical package.
Washing Stations and Hand Pulping Centers
6.05      To improve the quality of processed coffee, 15 washing stations
would be built with the same technical characteristics as those built under
the Ngozi II Project. Each station would have a reception house and cherry
sorting facilities, a three-disc pulper, pre-grader and a grader, fermentation
t:anks washing and grading channels, soaking tanks, 30 skin-drying and 150
sun-drying tables, storage facilities and a minimum amount of equipment to
mieasure coffee humidity. The theoretical production capacity of a station
would be 180 tons of parchment coffee per seaeon. Each station would process
coffee produced within a six to seven km radius. In their first year of
operation, stations would have about 50% of the maximum throughput; this
would rise to 75 to 80% and reach about 100% in the second and third years.
It is estimated that the cherries to parchment transformation rate would be
4.9 and the green to parchment ratio 81% as compared to about 6 and 72 to 75%
estimated under conventional processing. The total quantities of coffee
lhandled by the stations would be the following, assuming that 93% of the
output would be fully washed: 2% of grades 3A and 3B and 4% rejects:
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Full devpt.
Number of new stations
(cumulative)                  3           4          4            4          15
Tons of parchment             270         900      1,620        2,340       2,700
Tons of green coffee          219         729       1,312       1,895       2,178
out of which:
Fully washed               204        678       1,220        1,762       2,034
3A                         2.5        8          14           21          24
3B                         2.5        8          14           21          24
Rejects                     10          34          56           84         96



- 44 -
The maintenance and management of hand pulping centers would be improved
(paras. 4.08 and 5.07). Expected results would be an increase in the propor-
tion of 3A grade coffee produced from 45% to 56%, and a corresponding decrease
in the quantities of grade 3B and rejects from 47 and 8%, to 25 and 5%,
respectively, based on average throughput of 20 tons per center per season.
There would also be an improvement in the cherry/parchment ratio that is
difficult to quantify.
Reafforestation and Erosion Control
6.06      About 2,500 ha would be planted with trees including crest line
plantations of 1,200 ha, shelter belts of 125 ha on grazing land, conversion
of 750 ha of individual fuel wood lots and 250 ha of communal plantations.
Pines would be planted on better soils and Cullatris robusta on the shallowest
and rockiest sites. This program would start in Project year 3 and would
entail the gradual creation of nurseries that would produce about 6,000
plants 3n a schedule of 2,500 per year. Expected mean annual incre3ments would
be 12 m /ha for fuelwood, pole and timber plantations and 5 to 10 m /ha for
protection plantations. The cost per plant would be about FBu 7.3 excluding
contingencies, technical assistance and headquarters overhead costs. Under
the erosion control program, root stock centers would be created in various
zones, hills and cells in the following sequence:
Year 0     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4
Root stock area (ha)
Zones                       8.75
Hills                                   87.5
Cells                                                175        175          90
Pilot Swamp Development
6.07      To achieve the objectives of the pilot program (para. 4.14), a
water control system would be set up and would consist of peripheral inter-
ceptor drains along the toe of the uplands freely connected with, and dis-
charging into, a central drain during the wet season and into a system of
infiltration ditches during the dry season. A final design would require
prior topographical survey. As the risks that permanent drainage and inten-
sified cropping entail for the water regime and the production potential of
the peat lands are insufficiently known, the installation and continuous
operation of a hydrometric network would be a permanent feature of the pilot
program. The pilot area would be divided into three sections: one section
would be cultivated in the traditional way during the dry season and serve as
a reference; one section would be for dry season farming only but using
modern crop husbandry methods; one section would be exploited using adapted
methods of water-control and crop husbandry all year round. Beans, maize,
sweet potatoes, potatoes, pineapple and rice would be among the crops used
for trials. Most of them are currently being farmed in the Project area.
Various kinds of soil cultivation and seed and crop production methods would
be tried and soil subsidence measurements made by installing subsidence
beacons.



- 45 -
Producer Benefits
6.08      An estimated 75,000 farm families would receive direct assisLaace
under the Project over four and a half years for both coffee and food crops.
Another 75,000 would be expected to participate in coffee development activi-
ties only. The expected incremental cash income of an average farmer at
Project year 10 would vary between US$15 and about US$80 depending on the
degree of adoption. These figures are based on the assumption that 20% of
the incremental production would be consumed on the farm. A farmer adopting
the full technical package would be expected to have the cash flow shown in
Arnex 2. His income would be as follows in FBu:
Without         With
Project         Project          Increments
Gross Value of Production:         50,000          68,000             18,000
Value of Production Net
of Physical Inputs:                48,000          58,000             10,000
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
Coffee Demand
7.01      Demand for coffee is primarily determined by established habits,
incomes and prices. Although total demand for coffee has increased steadily,
the growth of per capita demand has slowed considerably in many of the major
importing countries. About 25% of the world coffee production is consumed
in the coffee producing countries, mainly the major ones. About 25% is
consumed in the U.S.A. (down from a level of 50% in the early 1950s); a
further 40% is consumed in other OECD countries and 10% in non-OECD importing
countries. Until the early 1950s, virtually all coffee was consumed as ground
roasted coffee. Since then, soluble coffee has captured an increasing share of
the market, a fact which has greatly facilitated the increase in the relative
share in coffee production of Africa and Asia where many countries produce
exclusively or predominantly Robusta coffee. Between 1964 and 1969, world
consumption in importing countries increased at an annual rate of 2.80%.
Between 1969 and 1974, the rate was slowed down to 1.7%. High prices caused a
sharp fall in consumption, bringing the rate of increase to 0.8%. These
consumption trends varied from country to country. In absolute terms, world
consumption by importing countries has gone from 55 million bags in 1961 to
68.6 million bags in 1978 and an estimated 73.1 million bags in 1979.
Forecasts for the next decade call for annual increases varying from a minimum
of 1% by ICO to 2.5% by the World Bank, translating into between 65 to 70
million bags to 78 million bags in 1990 1/. It is expected that domestic
consumption in coffee producing countries will be stable.
Coffee Supply
7.02      World coffee production is dominated by Brazil and the rest of
Latin America with 25% and 60% of total production, respectively, in recent
years. Production has lately been influenced by factors such as unusually
severe frosts in Brazil and a drop of production in Angola. Total world
production has grown from about 65 million bags in 1970 to about 76.3 million
1/   One bag has 60 kg of green coffee.



- 46 -
bags in 1978. In fact, a number of developments in major producing countries
may further reduce Burundi's share of the total world production. These
developments include a considerable expansion in India and the Philippines of
the area planted to coffee, replanting with higher yielding varieties and
emphasis on more intensive cultivation in Guatemala and Honduras, and finally
new plantings and emphasis on higher yielding varieties. Net stocks held by
producing countries as reserves were estimated at about 22 million bags at
the end of 1980 or some 37% of annual demand by consuming countries. This
level of stocks has been roughly the same since 1977. Assuming that the
optimum level of these stocks is between 20 and 40 million bags on average,
this would leave an exportable production level of some 60 to 80 million bags
in 1990 compared to a forecast demand of 78 million bags (para. 7.01) in
1990. At these levels of world exportable production, there would be a
reasonably balanced supply and demand situation with sufficient margin to
build up stocks to adequate levels.
Coffee Trade
7.03      Because of large price swings, the growth of the coffee market
has been rather uneven with most of the growth concentrated in the 1960s
and early 1970s when large stocks were overhanging the market and prices
were depressed. Prices reached a high of $4.70/kg in 1977 constant dollars in
the mid-1950s.  This provoked an increase in production from 40 million bags
in the 1950s to 70 million bags in the early 1960s.  With a slower increase
in consumption, stocks started building up rapidly to reach a maximum of
over 80 million bags in the mid-1960s.  Despite the decline in world production
since then resulting from a tree eradication program in Brazil, the high
levels of stocks kept prices depressed until the devastating frosts of
1975. Coffee supply and demand have been lately in precarious balance due to
more frequent and unusually harsh frosts in Brazil. A combination of these
frosts (1975 and 1976) and low coffee stocks (about 27 million bags) at the
start of the 1977/78 crop year, caused prices to increase to $5.30/kg
($2.40/lb) from a low of $1.00/kg at the beginning of the frost. Despite the
risks of new frosts, the likely ensuing reduction in Brazil's crop is not
expected to check the downward trend in prices more than temporarily. Prices in
1977 constant dollars averaged $3.18/kg in 1978 and are expected to decline
gradually to $1.85 in 1983 and increase progressively to $2.30 in 1990. These
projections are to be taken within the context of crop uncertainties. One of
the more pernicious features of the market for a number of years has been the
so-called special deals perpetuated mainly by Brazil and Colombia whereby
users (and occasionally dealers) are granted discounts below the overt
market price in return for a guarantee to purchase an agreed upon volume and
against a price fall for a period after the shipment.
7.04      Burundi coffee is sold to a relatively small clientele of some
20 international dealers by BCC (para. 1.35) after it has been graded and
packed by OCIBU (para. 1.33). BCC generally invites bids from prospective
buyers and, before selling, sets its own terms in addition to the normal terms
for US or European markets. As a small producer, Burundi is very much at the
mercy of events and must iollow t'he mar'&et in its ups an-  do'wns. The 'best
defense mechanism may be to make Burundi coffee as attractive as possible to
buyers so that it is sought after on the basis of quality and reliability by
quality conscious consumers in Western Europe. This is the main justification



- 47 -
for investments in washing stations (para. 4.07) to produce fully washed
coffee for which a premium of up to US$0.25/lb has been obtained in the past
over semi-washed coffee. Prices paid to producers have increased from FBu
34.00/kg in 1972 to FBu 118/kg in 1979. Although in the short-term this
price level may appear an adequate incentive to farmers, prices are likely
to become a major problem in the near future in the face of high domestic
inflation, projected declining international coffee prices and--increasing
inlput costs.  The problem of coffee prices to producers will need to be
discussed within the context of the overall sector dialogue with the Govern-
mtnt. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IDA and the Government
would exchange views at least once a year on all aspects of the Borrower's
policy relating to coffee production (para. 1.24). The objective would be to
maintain the producers' purchasing power.
International Coffee Agreement
7.05      The six-year International Coffee Agreement which entered into
force on October 1, 1976, provides for the introduction of export quotas when
prices fall below a specified level. Export quotas would come into effect
when this indicator price falls, for 20 consecutive market days, below the
reference price. It is not expected that Project incremental production would
adversely affect Burundi's position. With total production of below 400,000
bags per annum, Burundi is not subject to quotas anid is entitled to a produc-
tion increase of 5% per annum. The projected incresmental production falls
within this provision.
Food crops
7.06      The Project would not be expected to have much impact on the
present marketing system for food crops where about 15% of total production
is marketed by the farmers themselves or through private traders (para.
1.24). Close to the same level of the total incremnental production would be
marketed through the same channels at full development. It is expected,
however, that the cooperatives would gradually have an impact on marketing
with the exploitation of the warehouses put at their disposal (para. 4.15),
but this effect should not be felt until Project year 10 or so. Prices
cbtained by producers assisted by the Project are not expected to be higher
than would be the case without the Project. The expected improvements in
marketing would, however, allow for somewhat lower prices to consumers
because they would reduce the usually strong speculative influence of private
traders and would generally work to reduce price fluctuations.
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
8.01       By focusing on the development of both industrial and food crops
and seeking to improve living conditions in the rural areas, Project activi-
ties would help achieve the Government's rural sector objectives as embodied
iin the third Five-year Development Plan of 1978-1982 (para. 1.42). It would
have 10 components, four of which would be directly productive. The major



- 48 -
Project beneficiaries would be the small farmers. Their food consumption
would be increased (para. 6.08) and the net value of their production would go
up by 21% by year ten of the Project (para. 6.08). The emphasis on training
would ensure the strengthening of the institution implementing the Project and
benefit the whole country in the long run; the provision of basic social
infrastructure would improve rural living standards; increased coffee production
would yield more foreign exchange and through export taxes, more revenues to
the Government. The research, studies and trials component would support the
Government effort to ensure the long-term growth of the coffee industry
and the improvement of agricultural methods. An economic rate of return
has been computed separately only for the directly productive components
(para. 8.05).
Production and Benefits
8.02      Demand for the Project incremental production is virtually assured.
It is not expected that the new quota adjustment mechanism (para. 7.05) would
affect Burundi-s coffee reports significantly as even with the Project's
incremental production, Burundi's total annual production would still be below
400,000 bags, and as such, not subject to a quota. Incremental food crop
production would be sold within the Project area and in other parts of the
country, thereby reducing reliance on imports from abroad. Although coffee
prices are projected to be stable and even decline in real terms (para. 7.03)
over the next decade, investments in washing stations would allow Burundi to
produce quality coffee that would be'sold at a premium price. Prices for
food crops are not projected to be very different from their current level
(para. 7.06). At full development, the expected total incremental production
and gross sales revenues or production value (based on farmgate prices)
would be:
Item                Production                       Value
-tons-              FBu (million)  US$ ('000)
Food crops            15,821                    350          3,882
Green coffee           3,305                    390          4,333
8.03       By Project year 10, about 40% of 75,000 farm families (para. 6.02)
would be expected to,have adopted the bulk of the food crop and coffee
program. Depending on the degree of adoption, an average farmer would have a
net incremental cash income of about US$15 to US$80 (para. 6.08). A further
75,000 coffee growers would benefit from the Project in areas where the food
crop component would not be carried out, and be expected to obtain a net
incremental income of US$10 to US$40. Additional benefits that are difficult
to quantify would be the results of reafforestation and erosion control
measures, institution-building through technical assistance and training, the
improvement of rural living conditions and the lessons learned from research
trials, studies and the pilot swamp program.
Special Aspects: Employment and Income Distribution
8.04      Project investments would create permanent jobs for the equivalent
of about 850 man-years at various levels, excluding farm level labor require-
ments. During the implementation period, another 2,500 persons would be



- 49 -
employed to meet unskilled labor requirements. The minimum income earned by
unskilled workers would be about US$800 per year. More than 90% of jobs
created would be for low income people. About 90% of the farmers benefiting
from the Project have household incomes falling below the absolute poverty
level ($80 per capita per year). The farmers would receive about 50% of
gross incremental revenues from coffee exports.
Basic Assumptions and Economic Analysis
8.05        The economic rate of return from directly or indirectly productive
Project components is estimated at about 26%. These components are shown in
table 4. Costs of the pilot swamp program, studies and trials were not
included in the analysis as benefits from these activities are difficult to
quantify and would accrue principally in future projects and programs in the
Project area and other parts of the country. Costs do not include price
contingencies, taxes and duties. The economic life of the Project has been
assumed to be 20 years. Coffee prices and fertilizer costs have been computed
in accordance with the latest Bank forecasts and food crops prices have been
taken as of June 30, 1981. Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at
a premium of 20% over the official rate of US$1.00 = FBu 90 to reflect more
accurately the scarcity of foreign exchange. Economic rates of return for the
coffee and food crop development, the washing stations and the hand pulping
centers were calculated separately and estimated at 28%, 30% and 11%, respec-
tively. No separate rate of return was calculated for the reafforestation and
erosion control, the water supply and social infrastructure, the marketing
warehouses, the improvement of roads and bridges components, because of the
difficulty of determining in a satisfactory manner the quantitative benefits
from them individually.
8.06     The economic rate of return for the whole Project was tested for
sensitivity to costs, crop prices and variations in yields. As a measure, the
crossover value was used defined as the value of the variable tested for which
the net present value (NPV), using a 12% discount rate, was zero. The crossover
value may be interpreted as the value of the variable tested beyond which the
economic rate of return would fall below 12%.
(a) Project yields. The project is not very sensitive to
yields. Even if yields were to be 40% lower than
anticipated, the rate of return would still be about
12%.
(b) Costs. Costs would have to increase by more than
60% to reduce the ERR to 12%.
(c) Coffee prices. Coffee prices would have to
decrease by more than 45% to bring the ERR down
to 12%.
(d) If all benefits were lagged for about three years,
the ERR would still be above 12% at about 20%.



- 50 -
In the case of the washing stations, it has been assumed that the ratio
of cherries to parchment would be improved from 6 in the hand pulping centers
to about 4.9 in the stations. If the ratio is maintained at 6, the ERR for
the stations would become about 19%. The green to parchment coffee yield
used is 81% as obtained in existing washing stations compared to about a 72%
national average.
Risks
8.07      The main risks facing Project Implementation are: (a) a possible
delay in implementation resulting from problems in recruiting both expatriate
and Barundi key staff or slow delivery of materials; (b) a lack of farmers'
cooperation; (c) weakness of extension services; and (d) the possibility that
yield improvements may be lower than anticipated.  These are reviewed below:
(a) Owing to the existence of a management team for the on-going Ngozi
II Project, delays in implementation could most likely result only
from slow delivery of materials. This risk is not considered
unusual as it applies to everything else in Burundi.
(b) Although the proposed technical program is simple and fits
with current prevailing farming practices, farmers- adoption rates
would largely be a function of the efficiency of the extension
services and, above all of the financial incentives offered by their
participation in Project activities. Training is a major Project
component and should help improve the efficiency of extension
services.  As for farmers' incentives, pro forma farm budgets
indicate that farmers' incomes would increase substantially as
a result of the application of the proposed technical program. In
addition, a provision has been included (para. 4.04) for a review of
the input price policy to consider suibsidies if they are deemed a
major motivational factor.
(c) The problem of staff turnover remains a permanent one and there
is no definite solution to it. A first step toward solving it is to
make the Government aware of it and to try to induce it to think of
remedial measures to be taken (para. 5.04).
(d) The sensitivity analysis (para. 8.06) shows that the viability
of the Project is not unduly sensitive to yield drops.
IX. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
9.01      Costs of agricultural services and roads would be recovered through
coffee export taxes resulting from the incremental production. The cost of
improved seeds would be fully recovered. Full benefits for the forestry
component would not be obtained for a long time and have not been taken into
account. Investment in the construction and maintenance of water supply would
not be recovered. A Government Cash Flow is included in Table 5. It shows
that the Government's cumulative cash flow from Project related activities
would become positive in Project year 9. Average annual cash flow would
stabilize at over FBu 1,000 (US$11 million) starting in Year 14. Foreign



- 51 -
exchange earnings from coffee exports would rise to a yearly average of over
FBui 1,900 million (US$21 million) in Project year 14, while incremental
coffee export tax revenues would reach about FBu 900 million (US$10 million)
annually starting in the same year. The Government's annual financial
support to the RDC has been included in the cash flow. A separate cash flow
cormputed for the RDC (Table 5A) shows that most of the assistance it would
require from the Government would be used to cover the cost of extension
services' reafforestation and erosion control as well as road maintenance,
act:ivities which are for the most part not directly productive except for
extension. The RDC revenues would come mainly from working stations and would
amount to about US$8 million starting in Project year 6.  The carrying out of
noni-revenue producing activities such as road maintenance, extension work and
erosion control would prevent it from turning a profit. This is why it would
be necessary for the Government to provide it with financial technical assis-
tance.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10,01     During negotiations, agreements were obtained on the following
issues:
(a)  that the terms of reference, contracts for research and
studies would be submitted to IDA for approval (para. 4.16);
(b) that the RDC proposals to ISABU on research orientations
would be submitted to IDA for approval in the annual work
program (para. 4.17);
(c) that IDA would be consulted on the recruitment of the tech-
nical assistance team and their terms of reference submitted
to its approval. The technical assistance team would be
given the necessary authority to carry out their responsi-
bilities according to their terms of reference (paras. 4.20);
(d) that the Government would regularly contribute its share of
Project costs. It would also make available to the RDC the
subsidies when applicable and the foreign exchange necessary
to meet the recurrent annual needs for fertilizers and
insecticides (para. 4.25);
(e) that procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA would be
followed (para. 4.26);
(f) that Project accounts and statements of expenditure would be
regularly audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted
to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal
year (para. 4.28);
(g) that IDA would be consulted on the nomination of key Barundi
staff and that all key positions of the RDC would be staffed
at all times during the life of the Project (para. 5.04);



- 52 -
(h) that Project expenditures would be made in accordance with
annual work programs and budgets, which would be submitted
to IDA for review no later than June 15 of the year preceding
of the year of the Work Program and budget and for its approval
promptly after it has been adopted by the RDC's Board of
Directors (para. 5.15);
(i) that the Government would not alter the composition of the
Board of Directors of the RDC without informing IDA suffici-
ently in advance (para 5.02);
(J) that the Government would consult with IDA before making any
changes in key staff positions (para. 5.04);
(k) that the selection of social centers to be provided with
equipment would be submitted to IDA for approval in the
annual work programs (para. 5.11);
(1) that warehouses to be built under the Project would be sub-
mitted to the RDC Board of Directors for review and approval
with the annual work program (para. 5.11);
(m)  that Project semi-annual and annual progress reports would be
prepared and submitted to IDA no later than three months
following the end of the period covered by the report
(para. 5.17);
(n) that the terms of reference of the consultants hired to
review the monitoring and evaluation system would be submitted
to IDA for approval (para. 5.17);
(o) that the RDC would prepare a PCR at the end of Project
implementation (para 5.18); and
(p) that the Government and IDA would exchange views at least
once a year on all aspects of the Borrower's policy relating
to coffee production (para. 7.04).
(q) that the RDC would establish a compensation plan to offer
adequate incentives to its staff (para. 5.04);
10.02     Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) that the extension and training expert, the washing station
manager and the accounting and finance manager along with
the Barundi key staff: the RDC manager, the chief of
agricultural services, the chief accountant and the training
officer had been recruited and put in post (paras. 4.20 and
5.b4);



- 53 -
(b) the creation of the RDC by a decree (para. 4.21);
(c) the effectiveness of Loan Agreements with the Kuwait Fund
and IFAD (para. 4.24);
(d) the deposit of the first quarterly installment of the
Government counterpart funds in the Project account
(para. 4.25);
(e) the signing of a Project Pre-Financing Agreement between
the RDC and CAMOFI guaranteed by the Government and the
opening of a bank account by the RDC (para 4.25);
(f) the audit of the on-going Ngozi II Project accounts
(para. 4.28); and
(g) the preparation and submission of the first work program
(para. 5.15).
10.03     IDA's approval of the work program for any given year would be a
condition of disbursement against activities for that year (para. 5.15).
10.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.2 million (IJS$16.0 million) to
the Government of Burundi on standard IDA terms.
October 14, 1981



- 54 
0   R00NSD I
tNTTIORIR =RRA  DOELOPMR    PROJECT/80041  Tll
PIIT OF, SRIOPITRRL tLNTERG/OO/501  112                                                        Table/a.bloo      
Pro~ject Costs Soary
osirs des Costs dv Pro St
OnrEoch. 1.
Y-arAne ..        Year/Annee 1    Year/doves 2    Y-a/Annne 3    Y-arAnn.. 4    Y--c/Annoes 0-4                   D-e...on
1. Fnteostoit S-otlon  & Inputs                                                                                                                                               1.  tugais Iiseltraa-
ToRsos Deelopoast iptopr.                                 70 Oil           72 000              72 000            71 000           285 000                 91                  Int-ate  pou  developpr...t cofe
Poodorop DovotoPnot inputs             6 00                 2 Oil            9 000              6 110             6 000            29 000                 66                   Ont-ott  dtoloppom-t co-Icot         tot-o
cateosio   a-ci-o                      1 002                7 200          20 III              27 Oil            24 000            79 000                 50                  lnorsao
Sub-Total 1                          7 000              79 000          111 Oil             100 000           101 Goil          393 000                 61                    Soo-T-1a   1
2. cashing Stations .  lan-dpolp-                                                                                                                                             2. Stctions de 1o-og  & Ospoipoor   sc-to
Wnahing Stoaions. Coostr-tin                -              63 000           87 000             06 000            87 010           323 000                 66                   C-tero-ion Stations do lo-ga
RoaRing Stations. m8oogon  -t                                3100            9 000             07 000            25 500            54 Oil                 14                   Crouc  Set.ions do lacage
Hladpolpero    . Otngent                    -               1010             2 010              3 III             6GM00                Goo0               36S                  Gcruoc  doplp-naunc
Sob-Totol 2                                             66 000           96 030             106 000           116 000           360 110                 36                     Sca-T-ca  2
3. R-offoc-rt-ou & Eroion Coestol                                                                                                                                             3. Rteff-oetatine & L~ttocot-ior-e
R-offor-tatlon                                                   -                -            41 500             6500  0o           5 000                  9                  Re_ffcr..otcth
rosCostroI                         I 000               3 000           26 000             26 00i             43 500           111 000                 12                  LottOcon.t-e1'ruo
0th-Total 3                          1 000                6 000           26 100             67 000            87 000           106 050                  6oS-YoT-l 3
4. loca  Road Nacork Inp-nvnt                                                                                                                                                 4. Anli-ratitot re.o.. rooci   cora
Neo roads                                   -               30010            3b00               4 000             3 000            07 300                 63                  toR-o ls coo ass
Rood oaiuteoao-                                             3 000            3 000              46000            27001             21 000                 64                     ctEctet. dcc moos
Bridgee                                                     6 000            5 000              8 000             5 000            30 000                 00                  Toots
Sth-T.td   4                              -12 000                         18 000             16 000            20 010            68 000                 71                     Saos-Totol 4
3. Oaee  SOPpIT 6 Onatal Osnusc                                                                                                                                               3. Addo-cioc dVoa  & Ce--reanoli-
Well                                        -               4 000            4 000              5 000            Its OIl           30 050                 70                   P.jts
mcml. Concern                                               20100            3 000              2 000             1I000             6 500                 90                   Coctoo  ..octoon
Scab-Total 0                              -               46000            7 000             00 000            13 000            38 010                 75                     too-Totl 0
6. Pilot SoaP Oc-lop-en                                                                                                                                                        6. Ptoje- Pil-te:l)o-loppe...ot de 1.aora
Ia-c -sen   ....                        7000                2 000                -                   -                 -             9 000                61                    Oras- ioosieoe
Op-rtino coat                           1 000               3000             2 000               2ON0              2 000            10 100                45                    Frate de fo...clouc--t
0'o-lotal. 4                         5 000                5 000            2G 00              3000              0 000            19 000                 62                      Sou-lotal 
7. K-ktorhcg Wiachons-                            -               6000             8 300              8 000             0 000            30 000                 77             7.           d.goiu   d...oriniac
6. Stcdi-s, Rcoococh & Tr-iatuaEtd,R.h h.       - i
M-oistriOS, Stodiec & Rcacorch                            20 000           23 010              24 000            59 000            9i 00                                 8.4RSudoi, Eothdche  A  oR-    ot-ho
Training                               10 000               -8 000         .13 000             13 000              6 000            38 050                33                   F-rntlin
Snh-To-l 0                          18 000               28 000           36 000             37 000             35 000           154 000                59                     Soo-T-tl 0
9.  aTh.S.cnll Ae-int-o                     40 000              40 000            41 000             61000o            30 000           0330(00                 000            9. Asait- ao  et-hoiq-
10. Rogienal Dscalopeout CIcan                                                                                                                                                 10. S-ciato Rationl ..   e 1 alopode
Copinal   _ -oten   Costs             34 000              33 000            32 000                   -           21 000           140 0010                83                  FrsOn 1'Iteoitiisact...
Op-ettcg Costa                        03 000              -33-000           62 000             63 000            4,2 000           172 000   -38                              Trots d  f-to ci.an...ta
Sob-Tota1  40                       47 000              66 0500           14 0-00            40- 000           63i 000          312 000                 305                    oct-oT-l  10
11. RAdit                                     2 000                2 000            2 000              2 000             20               ' 1  000              IGOt          11  Audit
TOTAL BAS0 COSTS                   100 000              307 000         433 oob             450 000           401 000          102000                   83-                    TUSTTP   EBO
10  P 1st     Cootiagoots          13 000              36 000           63 000              460)M0            48 000           186 000                                       107. d'oop--o   plysiqoca'
Price C..tiugoccics it                    800 5l3  oct                       100 080            166 OS             214 0.00          535 90 NO                                        rot-e des polo
Toco1 Cootiagencies                      21 000              95 000          157 000            210 080           262 G00            245 000                                       TotolI.1   oa
TOTAL PROJECT 0OSTS                144 OQ              452 ag            090 000            067 000           743 000          2597 000                 63                    COUT TOTL 00 TROcCIO
A/  10% 7cr all P-oj-c o..epoetu.                                                                                                         l/ 10. dc toutes Ics conpo....se- do pr-jt.
IL   Pricc  -ettngcnito  ha-d  Iu 18001DA gaideli-e                                                                                       h/   r-icioa   poo  1-c hcos- d-a pots han- scar lea di-etit-
I96V   1962   1903   1984   1963                                                                                                               1981    1962    1983    1981        l9tS
Po-igsao.to             9SC    18%       7%   16.7%16 6.3%                                                                                 Cooaaea do _iss9%                      83.     71%      6,71.    6 ,3I.
Local. cots             131    121      127%  12.07%  lSjO                                                                                 Cou onntas   ooc157                  12%.      1 21.    12,0%.  I0,01,
Otnight-  aoro          10.22%   9.01.  8.831,  8.667.  7 .79%.                                                                             lya-u  P-cda-e              10,32%    9,67.    0,851.  8,6601   07 17.
1/  5.61%  -a  oacd Sor thc p-iod of 6 n-tha Cr0-1   5,017.  tiliaoa  Poo  Ia Poriodo dc joil.tl   od-ct-r 1901.
Tuly to D ...otor, 198 1.
c/  boor 1  -astnd to hagia Jantaur y 1, 1982.                                                                                            ./.uun    .cncc i..            co ja-ior 1982.
tetue,1961



- 55 -
B I R T N D T
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMNET PROJECT/NGOZI III
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE/NGOZI III                                 Table/Tableau 2
Estimated Disbursement Schedule                                                                                              Calendrier Estimatif des Decaissements
Cumulative Disbursement at end of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                                Decaissements cumulatifs en fin de trimestre                     Exercice et trimestre de 1'IDA
(US$ '000)
IDA            %              KUWAIT FUND               °
1980/81                                                                                                                      1980/81
September 30, 1980                                        -             -                     -                   -          30 septembre, 1980
December  31, 1980                                        -             -                     -                   -          31 decembre, 1980
March 31, 1981                                            -             -                     -                   -          31 mars, 1981
June 30, 1981 1/                                        400             2                     -                  -           30 juin, 1981  1/
1981/82                                                                                                                      1981/82
September 30, 1981                                      500            3                   200                   2           30 septembre, 1981
December 31, 1981                                       700            4                   500                   5           31 decembre, 1981
March 31, 1982                                          900             6                   700                   7          31 mars, 1982
June 30, 1982                                          1400            9                   900                    9          30 juin, 1982
1982/83                                                                                                                     1982/83
September 30, 1982                                     1800           11                  1000                   10         30 septembre, 1982
December 31, 1982                                      2000           13                  1200                   13         31 decembre, 1982
March 31, 1983                                         2400           15                  1400                   15         31 mars, 1983
June 30, 1983                                          2800           18                  1700                   18         30 juin, 1983
1983/84                                                                                                                     1983/84
September 30, 1983                                     3200           20                  1900                   20         30 septembre, 1983
December 31, 1983                                      3800           24                  2200                   23         31 decembre, 1983
March 31, 1984                                         4800           30                  27000                  28         31 mars, 1984
June 30, .1984                                         5800           36                  2900                   30         30 juin, 1984
1984/85                                                                                                                     1984/85
September 30, 1984                                     7000           44                  3400                   35         30 septembre, 1984
December 31, 1984                                      8500           53                  3900                   40         31 decembre, 1984
March 31, 1985                                         9500           59                  4900                   50         31 mars, 1985
June 30, L985                                         11000           69                  5800                   60         30 juin, 1985
1985/86                                                                                                                     1985/86
September 30, 1985                                    12500           78                  6800                   70         30 septembre,1985
December :31, 1985 2/                                 13500           84                  7800                   80         31 decembre,1985  2/
March 31, 1986                                        14500           91                  9000                   90         31 mars, 1986
June 30, L986 3/                                      16000          100                 10000                  100         30 juin, 1986  3/
1/  Expected date of effectiveness is July 1, 1981                                        1/  Entree en vigueur prevue pour le 1 juillet 1981
2/  Expected completion date is December 31, 1985                                         2/ Achevement prevu le 31 decembre, 1985
3/  Expecied closing date is June 30, 1986                                                3/  Cloture prevue le 30 juin, 1986.
November L980.



- 56 -
BURUNDI                                 Table/tbleau  3
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
PROJET DE DEVEL0PPEfNT RURAL INTEGRE/NG0ZI III
Total            Year/Annee                Total
Proposed Staffing                                  Staff        0    1    2    3    4         Personnel         Personnel proposi
Regional Development Company (RDC)                                                                              Societe de D&veloppement Regional (SDR)
1. RDC Manager                                       I          1    -    -    -    -              1            1.  Directeur de la SDR
2. Accounting & Finance Dept.                                                                                   2.  Dip. Admin. et Financier
Officer*                                        1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Co-Directeur*
Chief Accountant*                               1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Chef Comptable*
Personnel Assistant                            1          I    -    -    -    -                                  Chef du Personnel
Purchasing Assistant                            I         1    -    -    -    -              I                   Chef d'Achats
Administrative Assistant                        1         1    -    -    -    -              I                   Chef Administration
Accountants                                     5         5    -    -    -    -              5                   Comptables
Typist                                          1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Secretaire/dactylogra2he
Sub-total 2                                 11                                            11                     Sous-total 2
3. Rural Development Department                                                                                 3.  Dep. du developpement rural
Rural Development Officer*                      1         1    -    -    -    -               1                  Chef Vulgarisation*
Training Officer*                               1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Chef de Formation*
Administrative Assistant                        1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Adjoint administratif
Monitoring & Evaluation Assistant.              1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Adjoint Suivi et Evaluation
Sub-total 3                                  4                                             4                     Sous-total 3
4. Construction Department                                                                                      4.  Dip. des Constructions
officer*                                        1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Co-Directer*
Chief of Works                                  1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Chef de Chantier
Draftsman                                       1         1    -    -    -    -              1                   Dessinateur
Sub-total 4                                  3                                             3                     Soos-total 4
5. Technical Department                                                                                         5.  Dip. technique
Officer*                                        1         1    -    -    -    -              I                   Co-directeur*
Technical Assistant*                            1         1    -    -    -    -              I                   Assistant techniques
Administrative Assistant                        I         1    -    -    -    -              l                   Adjoint technique
Section Chiefs                                 4          4    -    -    -    -              4                   Chefs de Section
Workshop Assistant                              I               -    -    -    -             1                   Chef de garage
Mechanics                                       5         5    -    -    -    -              5                   Mecaniciens
Sub-total 5                                 13                                            13                     Sous-total 5
6. Research and Studies                                                                                         6.  Recherches et Etudes
Agronomist*                                     1         1    1    1    1    1              1                   Agronome*
7. General Services                                                                                             7.  Services &inirao,x
Drivers                                         5         5    -    -    -    -              5                   Chauffeurs
Secretaries                                    5          5    -    -    -    -              5                   Secretaires
Watchmen                                        3         3    -    -    _    _              3                   Gardiens
Sub-total 7                                 13                                            13                     Soss total 7
Total RDC                                   46                                            46                       Total SDR
8. Washing Stations                                                                                             8.  Usines de lavage
Station Managers                              15                3    4    4    4            15                   Chefs de Station
Deputy Managers                               15                3    4    4    4            15                   Chefs adjoint
Buyers                                        30                6    8    8    8            30                   Acheteurs
Permanent laborers                            60               12   16   16   16            60                   Manoeuvres
Sorters and Watchmen                          60               12   16   16   16            60                   Trieurs et Gardiens
Sub-total  8                               180                                          180                      Sous-total  8
9. Extension                                                                                                    9,  Vulgarisation
Zone supervisors                                6               2    2    2                  6                   Chefs de zones
Agronomists                                     3               1    1    1                  3                   Agronomes
Extension workers & Enumerators              195         10   30   40   50   50            195                   Moniteurs
Sub-total 9                                204                                          204                      Sons total 9
10. Pilot Project                                                                                               10.  Projet pilote
Rural Works Officer5                           1          1    -    -    -    -              1                   Responsable des Travaux Rurasx
Assistant                                       I         I    -    -    -    -              1                   Assistant
Laborer                                        1          1    -    -    -    -              1                   Main d'oeuvre
Watchman                                        1         1    -    -    -    -              I                   Gardien
Sub-total  10                                4                                             4                     Sous-total  10
11. Hand-pulping Centers                                                                                        11.  Centres de depulpage
Agents                                       180               45   45   45   45           180                   Employes
GRAND TOTAL                                614                                          614                      GRAND TOTAL
*  represents key staff.                                                               * represente  les postes importants.
February 1981



- 57 -
B U R U N D I
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE/NGOZI III                                                                        Table/Tableau  4
Economic Analysis/Analyse econoaique
millions PEB
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    199 1 i991                1992   1993    1194    1995        1996    1997   1999    1999         2900      2001
Year                                    9       1       2      3       4       5       6       7        8        9       10       11      12       13       14       15       16       17       18        19       20
A) BENEFITS                                                                                                                                                                                                                A)  BENEFICES
1. Foodcrops                                1       3      20      45     76    113    148        187      242      258      277    296       310      324      336      337       338      338      338      338           1. Cultures vivrleres
2. Coffee                                  29      47      71    103    167    266    430         595      869    1047      1240   1435    1623       1812     1997    2007       2016    2025      2027     2042           2. Cafe
3, Washing Stations                                24      68    138    212    246    246         246      379      379      379    379       379      379      379      379       379      379      379      379           3. Usines de lavage
4. Hand Pulpers                             -       1       3       7       8       7      8        7         8       7        7        7       7         7        7        7        7        7        7         7          4. Centres de depulpage
5. Reaffnrestation                          -       -       -       -       --             -       35       36       48       29      13        6         -       32       67       68       50       15         -          5. frogram-s-forestier
6. Warehouses                               -       -       I       1       1      2       1        2        1        2         1      2        1         2        1        2        1        2        1         1          6. Stock.ge e
Total Benefits                          30      75    163    294    464    634    833    1072    1535    1741    1933   2132    2326    2524                2721     2799     2799    2801      2767      2768              Total Benefices
B) COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B)  COUTS
1. Foodcrops                        6       9       4      19      29     45      65      84      103      121      138      147    155       163      169      174       175      174      175      174      175           1. Cultures vivrieres
2. Coffee                           -      71      79      85      92    103    110    117        119      125      139      139    145       145      145      145       145      145      145      145      145           2. Cafe
3. Extension                        1       8      29      45      51     37      37      37       37       37       37       37      37       37       37        37       37       37       37       37       37           3. Va6garisation
4. Washing Stations                 -      74    110    129    157        55      55      55       55       55       55       55      55       55       55       55        55       55       55       55       55           4. Stations do lavage
5. Hand Pulpers                     -       2       3       7      13      11     12      11       12       11       12       11      12       11       12        11       12       11       12       11       12           5. Centres de depulpage
6. Reafforestation & Erosion                                                                                                                                                                                                6. Programme forestier et
Control      1      39      66     74      51      18      18      18       18       18       18       18      18       18       18       18       18        18      18        18       18                anti-erosif
7. Regional Development Company 51         94      80      46      69     46      46      46       68       46       46       46      69       46       46       46        68       46       46       46       69           7. Ste. Reginnale du Dev.
8. Technical Assistance            48      73      73      73      36       -      -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -         -        -        -         -       -        -        -           8. Assistance technique
9. Marketing warehouses             -       7               9 9             - 9            -                 -        -        -       -        -        -                  -        -        -        -        -           9. Stockage
10. Rural roads                      -      14      23      30      38      24     24      24       24       24       24       24      24       24       24        24       24       24       24       24        24         10. Romees
11. Audit                            2       2       2       2       2       2      3       2        2         2        2        2      3        2         2        2        2        2        3        2         2         11. Audit
12. Training                        18       9      14      14       6       -      -       4        -        4        -        4        -       4         -        4        -        4        -        4         -         12. Formation
Total Costs                    127    402    492    533    553    341    370    418            438      443      471      483    518       505      499      516      536       516     515       517      538              Total Couts
Physical conting. 107           13      40      50      53      55     34      37      42       44       44       47       48      52       51       50       52        54       52       52       52       54              1017 Imprevus physiques
TOTAL COSTS                    140    442    542    586    608    375    407    460            482      487      518      531    570       556      549      568       590      568      567      569      592              GRAND TOTAL COUTS
NET BENEFIT                   (140)  (412)  (467)  (433)  (314)    89    227    373            590    1048    1223    1402   1592    1710    19/,    2153    2209    2231    2234                2198     2176              BENEFICES NET
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)   =  26.31                                                                                                                       Taux de Rentabilite Eonnomique (TRE)  =  26,31
One year lag in benefits:  ERR  =  21.76                                                                                                                       Retard d'un an dans lea benefices:  TRE  = 21,76
207. Costs increase :  ERR = 21.77                                                                                                                             20/. d'augmentation des couts:  TRE = 21,77
20% Cost increase and 207, Benefits decrease: ERR = 16.427.                                                                                                    20% d'augmentation  des couts et 207. de baisse des revenus:  TRE = 16,40
November, 1980






- 58 -
INTEGRATED RUTRAL DEVELOFMrNT P'ROJECT/NGOZI IIl
FROJET DE DEVELOPPEARENT RURAL INTEGRE/NGOZI TII                                                                          Table/Table..u  5
Governet Project Related Cash Flow
C..h Flow do Gooe--n-t
(Flu million)
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1894   1995   1998    1997   1998    1999    2000   29U1   2002   2003   2054    2005    ZOIb
Year                            0       1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8       9      1       11       2       13      14      15      18       17      18      1        29       1      22       3       24      25
INFLOWS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXCAISSE8IINs:
IDA C-edit                  63    117    162    423    450          225       -       -       -            -       -       -       -            -       -       -       -       -        -           -                            -              Credit de lIlA
K-wit Feed                  45       63      90    153    351       171        -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -                -               -       -Feeds Kes,it
Taxe-1                        -       8      12      22      38      59      92    146    200    578         691    616      943   1066   1190   1309   1315   1321   1328    1332    1338   1338   1338   1336    1338    1338                  Impet.  1/
ToTIAL                      108    188    264    598    839    455           92    148      200    578       891     116     943   1068    1190   1309   1315   1321   1326    1332   1338   133F   1338    1338    1338    1338
OUTFLOWS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECAISSEMENTS
Repayment -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Rembou.r....nta  -
IDA C-edit:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C-edit de 11DAM
Serice ch-rge & FPli-ipal                     0.5     1       2       4       7      11      11       11      25      26,     25      16      25       25      24      25      24       25      24      53      53       53      52      52  Coeeissiec
KUTWAIT Fund                                    1       3       6       10      21      26      50      50      50      so      50       50      50      30      50      50       50      30      30       51      50      30      30       30  Fonds Ko-it
(Interna  & 7rIncipal)                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (Tnt-rt & Principal)
Finaning aF Prc oct                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Fin...cenet Activitee  do FPajet
Activities                 108    180    252    576         840    456         -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       --                                -       -       -       -        -     do Frejet
Ccvi. centriboti.n             11      18      25      58      64      46-                       --                      -        -       -                       -        -       -       - -  -  -  -  -                                       Contribution do louvee--et
Aa-ist-n   tn RDC               -       -       -       -        -    109       96     102    114      110     106     1o9     120'   101        95      98     117      97       95      98     116      116    116      116     118      116  Assistanc a la 0131
Total                     119    198    278    638    932          673     124     139    175       161     181     165     195     157     170      173     191     172     188      173     190     219    219       218     218     216  Total
Net Flew                   (11)    (10)    (14)    (40)   (93)  (170)    (32)         7      25    415    510    631    746         869   1020   1136   1124   1149   1157    1159   1148   1119   1119   1119    1120    1120  Solde
2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2016    2017   2018   2019   2029    2021   2822   2023   2024    2025    2026   2027    2026    2029   2030
Tear                           27      28      29      30      31       32      33      34      35      36      37       38      39      40      41      42      43      44       45      46       47      48      49      50
IRTLOWS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1NC.AUSSE11ENTS;
IDA Credit                    -       -       -               -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -                       Credit de 1'ISA
Kuwait Fund                   -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -       -                -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -                       Fends de Kosait
Ta-a  1/                  15368   1338   1338   1358   1338   1338   1338   1338   1338   1358   1338   1338   1336    1338   1338   1358   1338   1558   1338    1338   1338   1358   1336    1338                                               Impale   I/
TOTAL                     1338   1338   1338   1358   1538   1338   1338   1338   1336    1358   1338   15138   1338   1338   15368   1338   1358   1338   15368   1338   1338   1338   1338   1338                                               TOTAL
DOTJFLOWS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRCAISSEINEIS
Repaymet-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Renhourements 
T'DA Credit:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Credit de l'IDA
le.vie Cherge bOPric.   51           51      51      50      50      50      48      49      49       48      48      48      47      47       47      46      46      46      45       45      45       44      44      44
KOTWAIT FUN                     =               -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -           -       -       -       -        -       -           -        -       -       -       -        -                    FORDS DE KOWAITT
Interest & Principal:                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (Inte-t h Frincipal
Fi-acing of Project             -       -       -        -       -       -               -               -                -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -        - -  -  -                                             Finaucement Activites
Activitlice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       do Prejet
Govt. coctnibutinm              -       -       -        -       --                      --.-                                                                                                  -  -  -                                            C-etrtbutioe do OC-e-ne-,nt
Aaaistauc-  te RDC            106     116     116     116     116      116     118     116    116      116     116      116    116      116     116     116      116     116     116      116     118     116     116     116                     Aaaiet.ece a la SDR
TOTAL                       167    167      167    166    166       166      163     165     165     164     164     164     163      163     163     162     162      162     161     161      161     160     168     160
NET FLOW                  1171   1171   1171   1172   1172   1172   1173   1173   1173   1174   1174   1174   1174   1175   1175   1176   1176   1176   1177    1177    1177   1178   1178   1178                                             Sold.
1/ Aboub 207. of net difference between project eapert FOR Dr-Bs-SeI... prie-  and actual
Do-E-Sa-Dlm FOB coats have been set aside for the atbhflliz ou. Fund.






- 59 -
BU RU N DSI
INTEGRATES RUA  DEVELOPlIENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
PROJET1 DE SEVELOPPEMENET RURAL INTEGRIRNGOZI III                                                                       Table/Tableau 5-A
Regional Developnont Company: Cash Flow
Cash Flow de 1i Societe du Develorepp-ent Rural
(FBu millions)
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993                 1994     1995    1996       1997     1998    1999    2000        2001
Year                                        0       1       2       3       4      5       6       7         8        9       10       11       12       13        14       15       16       17        18       19       20
I -  INFLOWS
Washing Stations                     306    334    385    454    544    639    706    706             706      706      706      706      706       706      706      706      706       706      706      796       706             Stations de lavage
Warehouses                             -       -       -       1       1       1       2       1        2        1        2         1        2        1        2         1        2        1        2        1         2             Stockages
Project financing                    113    341    432    468    517           -       -       -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -             Finsncenent do proJet
Input Payment by F-rmers                                                                                                                                                                                                            Achat d'Intrarts per agriculteors
F-rtilizers                          -       7      13      27      45      64      85    107       129      150      169      182      195       205      211      216      216       216      216      216      216                Engrais
Seed.                                -       3       3       3       3       3       3       3        3        3        3        3        3         3        3        3        3         3        3        3        3                Sen.....
Seedlings                            -      13      13      13      14      13     13      13        14       10       10       10       10       10        10       10       10 10              10       10       10                Plantene=
Tools                                -       2       -       2       2       3       2       2        2        3        2        2         2        3        2        2         2        3        2        2         2               Outils
TOTAL INFLOWS                        419    697    846    968   1126    723    811    832             856      873      892      904      918       928      935      939      940       940      940      939       940
II -  OUTFLOWS
Foodocop.                              3       8       4      17      26      40      18      75       92      108      113      131       138      146      151      110      156       113      156      155       158             Culture  vi-risres
Coffee n                                      60      67      72      78      87      53      99      181      106      118      123      123       123      123      123      123       123      123      123       123             Cafe
Extension                              1       7      26      41      46      37      37      37       37       37       37       37        37       37       37       37        37       37       37       37        37             Vulgarisation
Washing Statioms:                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Stations de Iasege:
New                 -      66      98    115    140        53      53      54       53       53       54       53       53        54       53       53       54        53       53       54       53                              Nouvelles
old                39      41      52      52      52      32      52      12       32       52       32       52       52        32       52       32       52        52       52       52       52                              Anciennes
HSnd Pulpers                           -       2       3       6      12      10      12      11       12       11       12        11       12       11       12       11        12       11       12       11        12             Depulpeu
Reafforestation/Eroeion control        1      38      65      73      50      18      18      18                18       18       18        18       18       18       18        18       18       18       18        18             Prog. forestier/anti-eoslif
Regional Development Company           -       6       8       8       8       -       -       -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -            Societe Reg. du Develppent
Roads                                   -     12      20      26      33      21      21      21       21       21       21        21       21       21       21       21        21       21       21       21        21            R tesdn
Audit                                  2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2         2        2        2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2            Audit
Training                              17       8      13      13       6       -       -       4        -        4        -         4        -        4        -        4         -        4        -        4                      Formation
Current RDC Staff                      2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2        2        2         2        2            Prsnnel actuel du  8RD
Sub-total                  115    343    434    470    519    365    391    418             454      457      482      497      522       513      514      521      541       521      519      521      540                Sans-toral
Purchase of cherries 1/              223    245    281    332    398    467    516    516             516      516      516      516      516       516      516      516      516       516      516      516       516            Achats des cerises  1/
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                      (338)  (588)  (715)  (802)  (917)  (832)  (907)  (934)   (970)   (973)   (998)  (1013)  (1038)  (1029)  (1030)  (1037)  (1057)  (1037)  (1035)  (1037)   (1056)
NET FLOW                              81    109    131    166    209   (109)   (96)  (102)   (114)   (100)   (106)   (109)   (120)   (101)                   (95)      (98)    (117)     (97)    (95)       (98)    (116)
1/  Cherries purchased at the equivalent of F3u 116/kg of parchment coffee                                                                                    1/  Prim des           hise ases nor 1'echelle mobile de  1980-81.
based on 1980-81 sliding scam.I
November 1980






BURUNDI
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE/NGOZI III
Programmation Des Travaux
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATI ON SCiEDUtLE
1981                        1982                        1983                        1984                        1985                         1986
ACTIVITIESACITE
N eg otiatio ns                    1 ~ ~~ 2    3       4      1     2      3      4       1      2     3      4        1     2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1    1| 2     3     4                       A C T IV IT ESli
Nlegoti.ti-,r                                                                                                                                                                                   1                       da0ao
Eftect,eessn-                                                                                                                                                                                                           Entrfe enovgu.ur
Completion                                                                                                                                                                                                              Achevement
Closi,g Date                                                                                                                                                                                                            Date de cotant
Project Staffing & Management                                                                                                                                                                                           Re-tem=nt et Gest,u, du Projet
Creati-n of RDC                                                                                                                                                                                                         CreatvoC   do SDR
Recruitment and Posting of Epatrates                                                                                                                                                                                    Retment des ExMtrus
E . le _ si - n   a nd   T ra m m,. g   E xp er t     _      _      _      _     _      _       _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _                                                        E .  er t e n    Ve u lg r is a t ia n   e t   F o r m a tio n
AgronomiSt                                                  _      _      -      _                                                                                                                                      Agronoe
Washing Stations Manager                                                  _                                                              _Gerant Stations de Laoaga
Coostruction Manager                                         _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _       _             _    _        _      _      _                                                Cheft de la Centtrnction
Admnwtra-ion and Fiance Manager                                                                                                                                                                                         Chef, Admit. et F--ances
Civil Engineer                                                                                                                                                                                                          I genioeu cvil
ToPographer                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tpsgratphe
R.....                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-cut-mont P-r-enl C1A .ur placee
Reerniemet & Posting of Local Key Personnel                                                                                             I
ROC Manager                                                                                                                                                                                                             Di,ecteur SDR
Accounting & Finece Officer                                                                                   _                                                                                                         Cadre, Comptabilite et fioat-ces
HQral Dveloopment Officer                                                                                                                                                                                               Cadre. Developpe--ent .rral 
Training Officer                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cadre chargd d  Ia trfo-ation
Monitoring and Evaflation Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                     Cadre chargo du Saivi
Technical Officer                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cadre technoiue
Coestruction Offices                                                                                                                                                                                                    Chef de laconstractrne
Rnsearch Agronomist                                         _      _                                                                                                                                                    Agronome de Ia Recherche
e°ffe= and Foodcrop Development                                                                                                                                                                          Dev=loppement Cafe-icuture & Cultures Vetirietet|
Secod Commut-e                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOuoeme Commune
Neot Two CommunS .                                                                                                                                                                                                        .eu  Pr-chamis Communes
Lust Two Commutes                                                                                                                                                                                                       Deu. Derreres Commutes
Coffee Development Other Communes                                                                                                                                                                                        Amdfiotaron Caf-icult-re, Autres Ccmmunes
Wnshing Stations and Pulping Cantert                                                                                                                                                                                    Stati-on de lacage et ODoplpet-ra manuels
Reoffors-tarion and Erotion Control                                                                                                                                                                                     Reof-,tm... et Lutte  -tre 0-...
| R.r.1 Road N=twork                                                                                                                                                                                                    R k... | | | ~~ _ _   ,   l   l   l   l   l   | Res=as   Routier Rural 
Water Supply and Social Centers                                                                                                                                                                                          Adductin d'Eau et Cenres Soc-uon
Pilut Swamp Program                                                                                                                                                                                                     Prngrg m.e PIloted-s M-rals
Marek=tng Warehouses                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mag-ins de C-emmernrafsation
StUdl-, Rauearch                                                                                                                                                                                                        Etud=sfRecherches
Truirring                                                                                                                                                                                                               PFrmati-n                                      | '
CrOi1 ~Worhs in %                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ces  infe 
RDC Headquartrs|   100                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sg.e SDR
Rural Road Network                                                                             18                   43                           70                  100                                      |Res    Roti=r Ru
Extensme Services                                                                                                   25                            0 IO                                                                   StemieV- lgarroatint
l So=tehdercest=rS  I  I  I  l  I  I  I  L                           l      l      l      2      I_    _         _            l      l      l      l      |      |  C=ntresSemenclers                               rr~~~~~~~~~~~~CetresSemnnrer
Seed Ce-ters                                                       105.w                                                                                                                                                          -ee
Other                                                              ESo                                                                                                                                                   Autre                                         05
World Bank - 22236



- 61 -
B U R U N D I                                       Toblo/Toble-o  7
INTEGRATED  OUR-L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NGOZI III / PROJET DE DEVELOPPEENT RURAL INTRGRE - MGOZI IDI
Project P-Pao-tlon TaclioM    Ponds A'Ovossa
UDit         UMti Cost          rotal UMits        Total Cost       Fpr. Fo.h. b         Uiti
Coot onitaire   Unit.s totoles         Cooe Tot:l        Devises %
A.  CONSTRUCTION                                                     Fbu                                Fbu '20  i/                                            A. CONSTRUCTION
1) HMadq-art-rs                                                                                                                                               I) Si5ge
- W-ho...se                                   s2             15 000               750            11 25Q              75                e2                     - Mag-iol
- Oon6iO5                                     m2            20 000               400              a ooo              75                t2                     - Hlbitation
- Traioiog Facilii-O                         n2             20 000               500            Do 000               75               s2                     - C-nt-s  do Footati-o
Sob-Totol 1                                                                                      29 250               75                                      Moos-Total 1
2) Pilot S-aop D-velOop=on  Site                                                                                                                              2) Ptojot Pilots des Morals
- OMPico & Warehouse                          o2             IS 000               120              1 dOD             75                n2                     - Torsas  Ot nagasoi
rOTAL  A                                                                                         31 050               75                                       TOTAL  A
E.  'EHICLES & EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                      .    OEHICULES ET 0 QUIPEMENTT
- Piok-op                                       -ath         1 000 000                 2              2 00             100              chaque               -  Ca=ionoette
-  _otsblo    ..t. oosoOsaLipmsoso                             5D 001                 3                150             MOO            tOOO......-  Instoons.ot  dta.lyso  poroooOfo
-Sil Anolyais  Oqsloo-to                       tt             50 00i                 3                450             IGO            troononea              -  Istrontson d'aoly-n do   -1eels
- SMation Eqoip .not                            ont         2 000 000                  1              2 000             100            trou.ssao              -         -ntronto d- otati.os
- Stage 00000ding o,oip-ent                     ant          1 000  Doo                1              1 00D             100            trousseau              -  Too....a.  do tel-ee do dononno
hyd-og-ophiq-os
- M .isoollaneous (100)                                                                                 560             100                                   -  Diverse
TOTAL  B                                                                                           6 160             100                                        TOTAL  B
TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTMETM                                                                             37 210              79                                      TOTAL DES IT6MMDBLISATIONS
C.  OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                                           C.  FRAIS D'OPEhATIONM
1) Personoel .I ) Peososl
- EDt-nosoo & Training Offioer           Ron-Dooth          40 000                  3                120              0                                          -ote-os  - Respo-sable forati-o   & Avulgarisati-o
- Mural Works GOMfier                    man-tooth          40 000                  4                160              0          hoRpe-opoi                  - Responsable travauo do g-is  -oraD
- rriver                                   n--ooth           20 000                 3                 60              0           hoRteo-neio                 - Chaoff-ut
STb-TateI 1                                                                                          340               0                                      Mono-total  I
2) Vehiolen: Pick-op                         1000 ken           35 000                 6                210              75          1000 kes                 2) Vehicule-: camionnette
TOTAL  C                                                                                             750              29                                        TOTAL  C
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                                      D.  ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
- TTaDoing & Etnsio-n Expert                 nan--onth         720 000                 3              2 160             100          ho-e-mois                - Esp-rt o     fo..atioo 0t Volga-i-atia
- Civil EoSinoer ..n--onth                                     720 000                 4              2 880             100          ho--Dis                  -  onei-or civil
- Toottomsm                                   n--nth           500 GOO                 3              1 500             100          )oaon-oaot               -  nintts-o
AUDIT                                        .an-nonth         720 000                  2             1 440             100          ho=o-m-oio               AUDIT
TOTAI. D                                                                                           7 980             100                                        TUTAL  D
TMTAL  (A I B I C I D)                                                                           45 740               82                                        TOTAL  (A +     C  TD)
Con-ignooDie                                                                                          4 30T             82                                   SoprAno
TOTAL COSTS                                                                                      50 040               82                                        COUTS TUTAba
1  U. Sd  =  PbN  90
S.ptnsb-r 1980



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
Rural Development Company (RDC)
Annual Work Programs
Presentation & Contents
1.        The annual Work Program must be conceived as a performance and
planning department. As such, it must include a statement and a description
of the specific objectives to be accomplished during the coming year by
Project component, a description of the resources (human, financial and
physical) available or to be acquired to achieve those objectives, a de-
scription of how the objectives are going to be achieved and an annual budget
putting all these elements in financial terms.
2.        The annual budget would include:
(a)  the proposed capital expenditures (e.g., on civil works,
vehicle and equipment) for all project components,
including the research program to be carried out by
ISABU, the social centers and the warehouses;
(b) the proposed expenditures on salaries, materials, fuel,
repairs and maintenance;
(c) a list of the personnel whose salaries would be financed
under the project, including technical assistance;
(d) detailed financial projection for the year under
consideration, including an estimate of the financing
requirements under the line of credit.
3.        Proposed terms of reference for new staff or any changes in agreed
terms of reference.
4.        A list of expenditures eligible for Bank Group reimbursement
and proposed allocation of funds by categories.



BURUNDI
TNTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI TII
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE/NCOZI III
Farm Budget/Cash Flow (Liquidation de l'exploitation familiale)
January   February   March         April    May       June    July          August    September   October   November   Decemtber
TOTAL      Janvier   Fevrier    Mars          Avril    Mai        Juin     Juillet    Aout         Septembre   Octobre   Novembre   Decembre
A)  REVENUES                                                                                                                                                                               A)  REVENUS
Beans                     7090           -        1418          -          -      2836    2836            -         -              _           _          _            _                   Haricots
Maize                     1260           -         630         630         -         -         -          -         -              -           -           -           -                   Mais
Groundnut                  748           -           -          -          _         -      748           -         -              -           -          -            -                   Arachides
Cassava                   1200        100          100        100        100       100      100         100       100            100         100        100          100                   Manioc
Sweet Potatoes            2000           -           -        200        200       200      200        200        200            200        200         200          200                   Patates douces
Sorghum                    105                                                              105                                                                                            Sorgbo
Bananas                   3600         300         300        300        300       300      300         300       300            300         300        300          300                   Bananes
Coffee                    6380           -           -           -         -      2550    2550        1280          -              -           -          -            -                   Cafe
TOTAL                 22383         400        2448        1230       600      5986    6839         1880       600            600         600         600         600                      TOTAL
B)  COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                  B)  COUTS
8eans                     2936.25    1406.25      1224           -         -                                                                 306                        -                  Haricots
Maize                      936.25        -           -           -         -         -         -          -         -              -         936.25        -           -                   Mais
Groundnuts                 313.25        -           -           -         -         -         -          -         -              -           -        313.25         -                   Arachides
Cassava                      -           -           -           -         _-                                                                                          -                   Manioc
Sweet Potatoes               -           -           -                                                                                                                 -                   Patates douces
Sorghum                      -                                                              -           -                                                              -                   Sorgho
Bananas                      -           -           -                                                                                                                  -                  Bananes
Coffee                    2475           -        1237.50        -         -      1237.50     -           -         -              -           -           -           -                   Cafe
TOTAL                  6660.75    1406.25      2461.50        -          -     1237.50    -            -          -              -       1242.25      313,25         -                     TOTAI.
C)  BALANCE                     15722.25   (1006.25)      (13.50)  1230        600       4748.50  6839       1880        600            600       (642.25)   286.75         600            C)  SOLDE
March, 1981                                                                                                                                                                                Mars 1981



BULRUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
MINISTER'S CABINET
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Directorate General                                               Directorage Gen                                                   Directorage General                 I
Agricultural                                                      Livestock                                                  Agricultural and Livestock
F                                                                        r
Agiulua                I                                                    Ivetc                              I                           Plnnn
~~~L a n     d     T     e     n     u r~~~~~LndTeue                                                          Veeinr
Agronomy       ~Rural Witorks      vvaier- ald io  e-oisi                            Ama! Pod~ictio          Arimaiia[  etriar
nt  Department                             ~~~~~~and Surveys         Deatrent               Departen                Laboratory                 Trainin ura
Department            Department   | |    Department    | |   De t    t                       Department                                    Department                 Training      |
World Bank - 22233



BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER'S CABINET
Directorate General
for Rural Development
Hydraulics and
Cooperative           j      Rural Housing                Rural Electriifcalion
Department                    Departmnent                    Departmnent
Offices B      2
VVorld Bank -22234         M



BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL INTEGRE/NGOZI III
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE RDC
ORGANIGRAMME DE LA SRD
P   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND  LIVESTOCKO
MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE ET DE L'ELEVAGE 
| . ISABU                         I! All. ,,   .  F,E,,               j         ~ OCIBU    
PERSONNEL  DEPT AM N ETMT F E  GT S S  DE ST DS CS                                        D
EV _LU     RCAT EDUATES/N/ 
SIGE DE LA SRD 
APPLIED RESEARCH      I
SEED CENTERS/RECHERCHE
D'ACCOMPAGUN--'N ET 
PRODUCT ION DE SEMENCES 
I~~ ~ ~       ~             ~~~~                                                                                                              I *                                       I   
PES;NL     ACOUNTING AND FINANCE DEPT | EXTENSION AND TRAINING                                                                                                                   I GIUTRLSRIE  DSRUTO   ET l1ECHNICLDP/
PRSONNEL       DEPT ADM IN. ET FINANCE   l    VUCADREMEINET                  SERVICESAIGRICOLES                                DEPT DES CONSTRUCTIONS                                   DEPT TECHNIaU
I ACCOUNTINGI                   PURCHASING/    | TRAINING/                      RURAL DEVELOPMENT/|BUILG DEPT                       ||ROADS DEPT. |RWASHRING ETATIEST  L    H       HANDPULPERS/ A  AWORKSROP/
FORMATION                    DEVELOPPEMENT RURALF DEPT CNSTRUCTION                   DEPT ROUTIER        UDINESDE LAVAGE         DEPULPEURS            ATELIER
COMM UN CES/
COMMUNES
|PILOT SWAMP DEV PROJECT; |T
|PRO.ET PILOT DES MARAISG



i
f
I
I



2000                  ~~~~~~BURUNDI
INTEGRATED  RURZAL DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT/NGOZI II                   R  W  A, N  D A
LODCATION OF PROJECT AREA
PROJET DE DEVUZOPPEMPENT RURAL INTECGtE/NVGOZI I--.                              ,       A
EMfPLACEMENT DE LA ZONVE DUI PROJET-
20      LOT& 00 m2*02,T02      <~~~IRUNDO~;
Nt)   ¶OUGGMB)<7  ~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~ /~~~P   g-UKUBA 
MUSOGAT  -'             RQBO~~~~~~~~~~~~PUYNG-
KANYOSHA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~GSHH
r00 ~~~~~~~  I                  00DG-'~      9?-- IA IK' tA
MUS4GATI ~ ~   ~        S4K2BA;          ,-$
7.                                    UHINYUZ~~INCA,
rui ~~~~~2     2'~C          ZAL000ETTNT                                     4 0
GUl        B  KE   B                
A~~~~~IGO             MoOcoA G-,AUGANA
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
KANYO
'NYABNANG  T~~,-C ETGAn






PF .JFCT AREA  NGOZI PFOVINCE                        NATIONAL ROADS ,50                                                                     B U RUN DI
ZON, Dl l r F/LJLl A/ NiOI/ PROViNCE                 RO(ITFS NAATIONALES
A   COMMUtNAL OFFICE                              --  MAIN ROADS.                                             INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-NGOZI III
BUIIEAU OE COMMU/NE                                  ROUTES PRINCIPALES
0     iXISTING COFFEE VASHIN(, STATIONS                    SECONLAIlY RONADS' I                             DROIf1FT  O   DOVEOPFREA4ENT  RURAZ /1NrGRF-NGOZ/  ZII
US/ANES DE CAFE EXISTANEES                           ROIUTES SECONVAIRFS                                                                                                                   /- 7 )
PROJECT AIILRA Or FIRST COFFEI EFO/FCT               FA OVINCIAI CAPITAL           i                                       PROJECT  AREA/ZONE DU fROJET                           0\0 p
ICR 147 RU) I ZONL DU PREMIER PROIr                  lCPAILE OE PRO V/A In 
P/FL/IS /C/7. I, A-EV}       g           . :,         5       0        5      10      I5      20
COMMUNAI BOUNDARIL5                                    TO/IRS D'EAL'X                   'x
TIMITEfS C0MIUNALJA                                                                                                      K LOMLIcR,
PROVIN/CIAL 3OUONDAR/ES                                                                       MARAN GARA
IN/IbINAHIORAL BU/~NOAPESE                                  u~r>tK. 
FRION NFERA               WANDA
N ~ >                 <      =    j         ,   0            ,B 1R E /       9                -~ XKI BUO/E g<                   t    Ka or we        MfRAMA  U H AM  K   NYE
- 2              |  r;.-  J         * BUSIGd   Z t^MWyMBA          h ksh o n g 2  -                             lgs                   MU                     S      @BURENZA
C, rw E~~~~~~~~~~~~UEG¢ 7    UOM                   AGOAKA        SHNE --C--MRA- TAZAI
11yo 0                            AMAN LMushong                                                                                             Y eNG)
30  X          /~ <            G48ARAs za  . 5    &- -   $  < i    / US/OR  /-.   /                                          vUS ONOE
) f0s? > <Xk 'Gg,HMU                     ROG- -                                      |                                                                                   'tAKA0 N
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~TANGARA
KAYANZA                           Mi\                                                                                                                                      /
Y<   Rugeyo        \                                 ,-
XW.dE3n0   t r/k              ,             A G tRR          1..                                                       ?/t                                                                     URUT 
houmd  ~~~ tr7e shAowMn onIOOIO~ -hi r)s                                                                                                                                                    I  P f      ,M,u\
B3 JEAA ' M   /N ply, ° t t/A ' 
01083000:4a//exc/1,0000/0/<A  )~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 0
'0/01/ 0t/o, °0 thttIdydll                                                                                                                     a ~I/  3l tO/N/ Bugf /e             t/.
e                       -Y                                                                                                 ,, L. b z  /   /    tr,     / !     I    ,,.g
0/0-0/ /. . ....                                                                                                                              Al(LMb
"Y 1--y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r .,y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    01~-                                                                                               U
/    To BS,oooo     0 .  MURAMVYA               , f                        rG3                   T,,Cego A-.             t                                      /                           to






I B R D 15324
F       /w    '  CENTRAL                                                                        NOVEMBER 19
. AFRICAN REP.    S    SUDAN 
CAMEROON           < ---- '
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(&NA >    j   zPROJECT/NGOZI I
<CONGO  REPUBLIC O                                      COFFEE GROWING AREA
RGABON 4   8             R%tANDA<WN          NROJETDE DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL
BURUNDI                   INTEG RE / NGOZIJ , REGIONS DE CULTURE
DE CAFE DU BURUNDI
~ANZAN'IA
PROJECT AREA
zovNE oU PRoJEr
ANGOLA                                       A /E AKER
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I./
290                ~~~~ZAMBIA                                                     WE-  /
290       
:RWANDA                                                           2
________          .'      TANZANIA
~~~~ :  tG,i'. .... . ........ ......'.  / =............ 
N
K-
t;   \   \        tBAJUMBURA            ''        /      ''''-
DENITY OFCOFFEE TREES
n      \             \Xx,XXX,/'',': =   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vey High
40                                                                                  Tras Clvv*.                  40-
WO*      3 af  cAi '1e for''/                                                                / 
Me  Iowh   it  :::::::1           .,,,,,.,,,,h/                           Md
7-w,wies   sbwyo   i       the
d o            ,mp4 on t 
WtrWl Bai mid it .rffionel Bundarie
udgmnt ot the    status of           
any t\mtory or                              Co I lar s /at',tele,
-4 . . < }f Veey f   h bowiw.
or accoptwxe of    bouftdw4s~~                          0    10   20   30   40 Kvr
290
. J I :                                                  i  / /wer*300



