Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             FILE COPY
Report No. P-3149-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR THE
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT/NCOZI III PROJECT
November 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         -            Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00               -            FBu9O
FBul                  -            US$0.011
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC       -    Burundi Coffee Company
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ISABU     -    Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(Burundi Institute of Agricultural Sciences)
OCIBU     -    Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Burundi Industrial Crop Development Office)
RDC      -     Regional Development Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BURUNDI                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT/NGOZI III PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Burundi
Amount:                    SDR14.2 million
(US$16.0 million)
Terms:                     Standard IDA Terms
Cofinancing:               The project would be cofinanced by a loan of
SDR6.25 million (US$7.0 million) from the Interna-
tional Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
and a loan of US$3 million from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development CKuwait Fund).
Beneficiary:               Regional Development Company of Buyenzi (RDC)
Relending terms:           Grant
Project
Description:       (i)  Objectives: (a) to assist smallholders in the Ngozi
Province to improve the productivity of the coffee
and foodcrop cultivation; (b) to improve rural living
conditions by building or maintaining water sources,
equipping social centers, developing wood resources
and improving the road network; (e) to improve the
quality of Burundi's coffee by building new washing
stations; and (d) to strengthen the management capa-
bility of the RDC.
(ii)  Components: (a) a program to provide extension services
and agricultural inputs; (b) the construction and
equipment of 15 coffee washing stations and the
strengthening of the maintenance and management of
handpulping centers; (c) reafforestation and erosion
control measures; (d) improvement of the road and water
supply network and social infrastructure; (e) a pilot
swamp development program; (f) the construction of
marketing warehouses; (g) studies, research, training
and Project monitoring; and (h) technical assistance.
(iii)   Benefits: 75,000 farm families would receive assistance
for coffee and foodcrop development. An additional 75,000
families would receive assistance for coffee development
only. The expected annual incremental cash income per
farmer is estimated to vary between US$15 and US$70.
The foodcrop component would result in better nutrition for
the families benefitting from it. Project investments
would create permanent jobs for the equivalent of about
850 man years, excluding farm labor requirements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
During the implementation period, another 2,500 persons
would be employed to meet unskilled labor requirements.
The reafforestation and erosion component would assist
in controlling soil degradation and providing wood for
fuel.
(iv)  i4sks:  (a) possible delays in implementation resulting from
prohlems in recruiting expatriate and/or Burundian key staff
and high staff turnover or slow delivery of materials; and
(b) possible weaknesses of extension services with the risk
that the technical package might be adopted by the farmers
at a slower rate than expected. The Project has been
designed to minimize these risks,in particular through
flexible annual work programs and a training component to
strengthen extension services.
Estimated Costs  1/                               (US$ Million)
Local Foreign Total
Extension Services and Inputs                0.85      3.55      4.40
Washing Stations and Handpulpers             1.80      2.50      4.30
Reafforestation & Erosion Control            2.20      0.20      2.40
Rural Road.Network Improvement               0.25      0.50      0.75
Water Supply and Social Centers              0.05      0.10      0.15
Pilot Swamp Development                      0.15      0.20      0.35
Marketing and Warehouses                     0.15      0.20      0.35
Studies, Research and Training               0.70      0.95      1.65
Technical Assistance                          -        2.80      2.80
Regional Development Company                 1.50      2.00      3.50
Audit                                         -        0.10      0.10
Total Base Costs                             7.70     13.05    20.75
Contingency Allowances
Physical Contingencies.                 0.80       1.30      2.10
Price Contingencies                     2.20       3.90      6.10
Total Contingencies                     3.00       5.20      8.20
Total Project Cost                         10.70      18.25    28.95
1/  Taxes and duties are included in Project costs but are negligible.



(iii)
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local          Foreign         Total
Government                        2.9                -            2.9
IDA                               4.3              11.7          16.0
IFAD                              2.5               4.5           7.0
Kuwait Fund                       1.0               2.0           3.0
TOTAL              in.7              18.2          28.9
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA   FY            1982    1983    1984    1985        1986
Annual                          1.4     1.4      3.0      5.2        5.0
Cumulative                      1.4     2.8      5.8     11.0       16.0
Economic Rate of Return
The economic rate of return from directly productive Project components
(amounting to about 80% of total Project costs) is estimated at about 26%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3230 dated October 14 , 1981
Mp: IBRD 15323






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR THE
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT/NGOZI III PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
14.2 million (US$16.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Rural Development/Ngozi III Project. The Project would also be financed
by a loan from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
for the equivalent of SDR6.25 million with a term of fifty years including
ten years of grace and carrying a one percent administrative charge; and
by a loan of US$3 million from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
(Kuwait Fund) at terms to be determined. SDR13.9 million out of the proceeds
of the Credit would be transferred by the Government as a grant to the
Regional Development Company (RDC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided below and in Annex
I.
3.        Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$200 in
1980, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is designated
as "least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population of about four
million, only 90,000 are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsistence
agriculture. The Government is facing several critical problems in its efforts
to develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage programs and
projects is weak; the agricultural 'labor force is largely untrained; and population
growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources, particularly in agriculture.
Despite a stated policy of "spaced births", the problems of population pressure
cannot be solved in the immediate future. A major effort must therefore be
made to increase agricultural productivity. During the past decade, per capita
agricultural production declined steadily. The search for more arable land
has caused large-scale deforestation and severe chortages of firewood in the
rural areas, which makes the development of alternative energy sources urgent.
4.        Shipments of imports and exports through the principal outlets
via Tanzania have frequently encountered delays due to bottlenecks in the
port of Dar-es-Salaam, underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora
and Kigoma (para. 10) on Lake Tanganyika, and losses because of theft. However,
action is being taken to make external connections more reliable. The link
via Rwanda and Uganda to the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming increasingly
attractive with the continuing improvement of national highways between Bujumbura
and Mombasa.



-  2  -
5.           Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation and
improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which was levied
on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can be withdrawn after
three years. In addition, the traditional obligation for small farmers to
provide services to landowners, in exchange for the right to cultivate land,
was abolished.  Likewise, land which was obtained in an irregular manner for
speculative purposes was returned to the State or to the farmers who cultivated
it. Other aspects of the new policies, which are embodied in the Third Five-
Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) emphasizing agricultural production to meet
the increasing needs for food of the rapidly growing population; (b) increasing
the rate of economic growth substantially in order to provide greater employment
opportunities and more income to the poorest segments of the population; (c)
raising the investment rate significantly; (d) giving the Government a more
active role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources, and greater participation
in mixed enterprises in the comercial and productive sectors; and (e) fostering
decentralization of economic and social activity away from the capital city
through the creation of development poles and voluntary settlement of the
peasant population in villages. To facilitate the implementation of its strategy,
the Government strengthened the role of planning by elevating the planning
organization to the rank of Ministry and by giving it a key role in selecting
and monitoring public investment.
6.            Recent Economic Developments.   The period 1977-79 constitutes
an important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it witnessed an acceleration
of economic growth to an annual average of 4.4 percent, as well as a major
effort by the Government to raise the country's investment rate, traditionally
among the lowest in the developing world. During this relatively short period,
the volume of investment grew by about 75 percent, and the investment rate
rose to more than 12 percent of GDP. This effort, which was led and implemented
by the public sector, had important repercussions on the pattern of domestic
demand, domestic inflation, and the mobilization of domestic and external
financial resources.
7.           The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated in the last
few years owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during 1976 and
1977, and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures during 1978 and
1979. Public consumption and investment expanded at a rate almost triple
that of the private sector during the period 1976-79. Government expenditures
more than doubled in current terms and increased from about 16 percent of
GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in 1979. Capital expenditures, particularly for
infrastructure and for the financing of public enterprises, contributed most
to this growth. The government overall deficit, which increased from about
3.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.3 percent in 1979, was covered to an increasing
extent through recourse to the domestic banking system (about half in 1979).
8.           The rapid expansion of domestic credit was the main cause of
the almost 26 percent rate of inflation in 1979, although rising import
prices were also a contributing factor. Owing mainly to high transportation
costs, import prices increased by 33 percent in 1979, more than twice the
international inflation rate. During 1980, domestic credit did not expand
much further, and, in spite of continued inflationary pressures from abroad,
domestic inflation has slowed down significantly to about 14 percent.



- 3 -
9.            Burundi's external current account registered surpluses in 1976
and 1977 but showed deficits in 1978 and 1979. In 1979, the current account
deficit was about US$57 million, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Underlying
this shift was an adverse movement in the country's terms of trade as well
as an unprecedented increase (55 percent) in the volume of imports. Owing
mainly to a one-third decline in the volume of coffee exports and a 16 percent
fall in the terms of trade, Burundi's current account deficit widened to US$100
million in 1980, equivalent to 11 percent of GDP. The country's growing deficit
has been financed mainly with project-related aid to the Government and parastatals
from multilateral and bilateral agencies. During 1979-80, these flows averaged
US$64 million per annum ( equivalent to 32 percent of Burundi's 1979-80 imports),
compared to US$18 million in 1976. By June 30, 1981, Burundi's international
reserves still stood at the comfortable level of US$70 million, equivalent
to about four months of imports, a legacy of the 1976-77 coffee-boom years.
10.           In 1981. the Burundian economy is expected to grow at a rapid
pace owing to a resumption of investment activity and exceptional performance
of the agricultural sector due to good weather conditions.   According to
preliminary information, Government investment will increase by 7% in real
terms, following a year of stagnation, and the production of rice, beans,
maize and coffee will attain record levels.  Coffee exports, the major source
of foreign exchange for the country, are expected to increase to about 30,000
tons during 1981 if the production can be sold and evacuated. This increase
could offset the significant decline in the world market price for coffee
which took place during the first eight months of 1981. As a result, the
overall balance of payments deficit would be kept this year within the Central
Bank's financial capabilities. Transportation remains the main source of
uncertainty. Duiring the first semester of 1981, because substantial delays
were anticipated in the shipping of coffee through Kigoma to Dar es Salaam,
BCC, the Government agency responsible for external marketing, adopted a cautious
marketing policy in order to be able to honor the delivery contracts. The
transportation bottleneck affects both the balance of payments and credit
policy, as it results in longer delays (more than three months) in the repatria-
tion of the export receipts and also in larger credit requirements to finance
the storage and exports of coffee. Thus far, however, this bottleneck has
not critically affected imports of certain strategic items such as petroleum
products and cement, which transit through Kenya, Zambia and Zaire. Following
a resumption of activities at the Kigoma Port during the month of August,
shipments of coffee through the southern route seem to have recovered their
normal rhythm.
11.          External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavorable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term prospects
of the economy are not good (coffee exports constitute about 90 percent of
Burundi's merchandise exports). According to current forecasts, the price
for coffee could fall by as much as one-third in real terms by 1984 as compared
to its 1979 level. The impact of this decline in Burundi would have to be
absorbed by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in real terms)
and by the Government (through lower coffee tax receipts in real terms).
Even with a policy of demand restraint, it will be difficult for Burundi to
reduce its current account deficit to below 9 percent of GDP.
12.          Burundi's future external capital requirements are likely to
be much higher than in the recent past. In order to sustain a growth rate
of the economy of about 4% p.a. in real terms, medium-and long-term external



- 4 -
capital requirements would have to double to an average of about US$155 million
p.a. in current prices during the period 1981-84. Although Burundi has been
remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources, recently a few high
priority agricultural projects have not attracted sufficient financing. The
composition of aid flows also would have to be changed, since direct balance
of payments support (and/or commodity assistance for essential imports) would
have to be provided to a greater extent than before..
13.          Restraining the growth of domestic demand and stimulating the
productive sectors would help Burundi obtain needed external aid. This would
imply close coordination of policies on several fronts: Government expenditures,
the taxation of consumer goods and imports, as well as price policies. Together
with the Government's investment program, a more flexible pricing strategy
should constitute the cornerstone of a policy to expand domestic production.
In recent months, the Government has taken important steps in this direction
by raising significantly electricity and water tariffs, domestic transport
fares, gasoline retail prices, and by selectively lifting rent controls.
The major policy issues outlined above have been the object of discussions
between the Burundian authorities and an IMF mission which visited Burundi
to continue negotiations started in early 1981 toward an Extended Fund Facility.
The mission was able to make progress in defining the scope and contents of
a medium-term adjustment program. Negotiations are expected to resume during
the next few months. Under current IMF guidelines, Burundi could draw up
to SDRl55 million during the period 1982-84, enough to cover Burundi's non-
project external financial requirements during those years.
14.          Because o; the expected financial constraints, it is highly unlikely
that during the period 1980-84 the volume of investment can be much more than
half of that envisaged in the Plan. Nevertheless, even this reduced level
would still allow the economic growth mentioned above (para. 12) as well
as some increase in the investment rate. Also, a lower level of investment
would be more in line with the country's implementation capacity.
15.          The Government has already taken steps to reduce its investment
objectives, but an important issue remains whether the Government will attain
its objective of directing investment to the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture. Population pressure on available land, and its adverse effects
on soil fertility, foodcrop production and nutrition, underlines the urgency
of accelerating rural development. The Government recently launched a number
of integrated rural development projects which, over the next few years, are
expected to benefit an increasing number of small farmers. However, the prepara-
tion of integrated rural development projects has been hindered by limited
knowledge of intensified cultural practices and of the willingness of small
farmers to adopt them. The first major projects, scheduled to begin implementa-
tion in 1981, remain in many respects experimental and will have to be comple-
mented by adaptive research.
16.          Government policy is to establish regional development companies
(RDCs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate technology, village-
level organizations, and decentralization of Government services. To this end,
the RDCs will manage all agricultural, forestry and veterinary Government
staff working in the proposed project areas. These integrated rural development
schemes cut across the functions of various ministerial departments. Although
the Government expects RDCs to eventually cover part, if not all, of their



expenditures with their own earnings, opportunities to make commercial profits
will only develop slowly, and RDCs will probably depend on Government budgetary
allocations for a number of years. In spite of this financial dependence,
the Government intends to endow the RDCs with full management autonomy.
17.           Despite certain successes, a number of parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the central Government, management
problems, lack of career incentives for staff, financial weaknesses and, in
the case of agricultural parastatals, lack of small farmer participation owing
to insufficient incentives. Increasing the efficiency of the parastatal sector
constitutes a top Government priority. With IDA assistance, the Government
is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with the intention of
providing it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility it requires to achieve
satisfactory economic and financial performance.
18.           To complement the efforts made by the RDCs, it will also be necessary
to promote rural development more actively by stimulating the activities of
small and decentralized organizations such as Government-sponsored and private
cooperatives as well as private secular and religious groups, and by supporting
the communal efforts under the sole political (UPRONA) party. The scope and
efficiency of the activities of communes (the basic administrative unit) could
be greatly improved by providing more resources to local authorities.  Available
evidence suggests that these organizations can play a key role as "transmission
belts" between the small farmers and the rest of the economy. Rural development
projects now face the difficult challenge of combining the vertical integration
needed for increasing the production and quality of coffee with the more partici-
patory arrangements necessary for increasing foodcrop production and meeting
other basic needs. This reconciliation is critical since the satisfaction
of basic nutritional needs to a large extent guides the socioeconomic behaviour
of the farm family. The scarcity of land is already such that, in a number
of regions, farmers face a choice between continuing coffee cultivation and
gradually shifting to foodcrop production.
19.           If the Government continues to focus on development, pursues
improvements in policies and strengthens its administration, it may achieve
a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If mining of Burundi's
nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects over the next ten years would
be much better. However, the commercial viability of exploiting these deposits
has yet to be established. Regional development in Central Africa will also
be important to Burundi's economy. In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and
Zaire signed a convention establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries
of the Great Lakes" (CEPGL). The Community, which has its seat in Gi3enyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional trade
and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of the Community
is the electrification of the Great Lakes region. The glass container project
which was recently approved by the Board of IFC will be the first major regional
industry to be implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL. The three countries
have set up a joint development bank to finance regional development projects,
in particular to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and to develop
a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also instructed the
Secretariat of CEPLG to investigate ways of improving the transport system
around the lakes in order to ease the transport bottlenecks affecting Burundi
and Rwanda.



- 6 -
20.           In 1977-80, total long-term capital inflows to Burundi amounted
to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent) was in the form
of grants. Most of the assistance has come from the UN agencies, Belgium,
the European Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the
People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1980, Burundi's external medium
and long-term debt amounted to about US$290 million (including undisbursed
amounts), of which IDA held 32 percent. Debt service averaged 8.5 percent
of export earnings. Owing to the large proportion of grants in external assist-
ance, IDA will probably continue to hold a large proportion of Burundi's outstand-
ing debt. Notwithstanding the relatively low debt service ratio, Burundi,
because of its poverty and the instability of its export earnings, should
refrain from borrowing on commercial terms. External aid should therefore
be on grant or very concessional terms and should continue to include a substan-
tial share of local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.           Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, sixteen credits
have been made, of which fifteen expressed in dollars, for a total amount
of US$92.9 million, and one expressed in Special Drawing Rights, amounting
to SDR US$3.3 million. One credit (US$1.1 million) helped improve water supply
to Bujumbura; four credits (US$17.3 million) were for agriculture (two for
coffee production, one for fisheries and one for forestry); three credits
(US$19.4 million, including an engineering credit of US$400,000) helped start
a highway maintenance and improvement program; a US$10.0 million credit is
supporting the-improvement of primary education and a second one of US$15.0
million finances vocational and tech,ical training; two credits (US$4.0 million)
were made for technical assistance; and the National Development Bank received
a credit of US$3.4 million. A US$15.0 million credit for an Urban Project
aimed at improving the conditions of the poor in the city of Bujumbura and
a US$7.7 million credit for a Telecommunications Project became effective
in October 1980 and January 1981, respectively. The Second Coffee Project
and the Fisheries Project are cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (US$1.0 million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million), respectively.
The Second Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million. The Forestry Project
is cofinanced with a credit of US$1.2 million equivalent made from the EEC
Special Action Account. A credit of SDR3.3 million for a Nickel Exploration
Project was signed in July 1981 and is not yet effective. In addition, two
credits approved by the Board in FY81, for a Third Highway Project (SDR20.5
million) and a Kirimiro Rural Development Project (SDR16.2 million), have
not yet been signed. In June 1981, IFC approved a glass container project
(para. 19). Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, notes
on projects in execution, and the status of disbursements as of September 30,
1981.
22.          Project performance has been hampered by the shortage of local
management capacity and technical skills, which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has particularly
delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects, although
the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently improved. Problems
encountered in the execution of IDA-financed projects were discussed with
the Government during the Second Country Implementation Review held in Bujumbura



- 7 -
in June 1980.  Recommendations were made in particular regarding the training
of local staff, accounting, audits and disbursement procedures. Given existing
constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole, satisfactory.
23.           Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing
the decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and communica-
tion network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive capacity
through training and technical assistance. The Second Technical Assistance
Project is assisting the Government in its efforts to improve the planning
process and the management of the public enterprise sector. A third technical
assistance credit aiming principally at continuing these efforts and assisting
in the restructuring of the public enterprise sector is to be appraised in
April 1982. A sector mission visited Burundi in May 1981 to determine priority
areas in the energy sector. Its report is being prepared. A pilot project
to assist the domestic construction industry has recently been appraised and
a second credit to tie Development Bank is to be appraised shortly.
PART III.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       Burundi is essentially an agricultural economy relying on subsistence
farming and coffee as its main export crop. Over the last few years, agricul-
ture has accounted for about 60 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and has
provided almost all of the foreign exchange earnings, with coffee contributing
about 90 percent and animals skins, tea and cotton making up most of the
rest. During the same period, food imports accounted for about 15 percent
of the total value of merchandise imports. More than 90 percent of Burundi's
population derives its livelihood directly from agriculture and much of
the rest is directly or indirectly dependent on it for employment. Agriculture
faces the following serious constraints: (a) the scarcity of arable lands
and the small size of the farms, problems which are compounded by the high
rate of population growth which increases pressure on land; (b) the low
level of farmers' income, which limits their ability to purchase fertilizers,
pesticides and other inputs; (c) the inefficiency of the Government extension
services; and (d) the soil erosion and degradation caused by the cultivation
of steep slopes, iradequate anti-erosion measures, burning of agricultural
residues and grass, overgrazing, little or no fallow practice and the lack
of fertilizer appli etion. All these factors have contributed to a decline
in per capita foodc.op production over the last decade and a worsening
of the already poor nutritional standards of most of the rural population.
25.       By law, all land belongs to the Government but in practice tenure
is regulated by a combination of traditional laws and modern regulations.
Under the traditional system, individuals are granted usufruct rights over
land and own all the crops produced on that land. These rights are usually
hereditary. Uncultivated land belongs or automatically reverts to the
Government. However, to expropriate cultivated land, the Government must
pay compensation.



- 8 -
26.       There are an estimated 650,000 farming units, with the average
farm size below one hectare.  In coffee areas farmers typically allocate
no more than ten percent of their land to coffee, and the rest to foodcrops.
About half of the farming is done by women. Farming tools are rudimentary
and limited mainly to hoes for digging up the ground and machetes for
cutting grass. Few farmers use pesticides or fertilizers. In addition
to being the mainstay of the subsistence economy, foodcrops represent the
most important source of money income for farmers. Export crops, mainly
coffee and to a lesser extent cotton and tea, provide about 20 percent
of rural cash income.
27.       About one quarter of the farmers raise livestock.  Cattle are
bred extensively, more for prestige than for economic and nutritional reasons.
The herd size is estimated at about 800,000 head of cattle.  In addition,
there are some 600,000 goats, 300,000 sheep and about 35,000 pigs. Given
the rapid decline of grazing lands, the competition between grazing and
cultivation for the same land in many areas and the deeply ingrained social
attitudes which affect the way people raise cattle, it is urgent that the
Government define a national livestock policy. The proposed Project would
finance a study to analyze the livestock subsector and to assist the Govern-
ment in establishing a national livestock development policy (para. 54).
Annual fish production has varied between 12,000 and 21,000 tons in recent
years. Yields could be significantly increased in Lake Tanganiyka and
there is a potential for developing fish ponds. Burundi's forests
occupy about 3 percent of the country's total area and are being rapidly
depleted.
28.       Modern agricultural techniques are used:  (a) in the settlement
schemes called "paysannats"; (b) in industrial plantations; and (c) in
irrigation schemes. Settlement schemes were started in 1949 to transfer
people from the densely populated central plateau area to the sparsely
populated lowlands. To date, settlements cover about 40,000 ha and produce
crops such as cotton, rice and sugar cane. Industrial plantations of ro-
busta coffee are privately owned and cover an area of about 800 ha; they
produce about 75 percent of Burundi's robusta coffee. Industrial planta-
tions of tea cover about 4,630 ha and belong to the Government.
29.       Because of the limited quantity of surplus production, inadequate
storage and the lack of organized marketing facilities, only 5 to 10 percent
of total foodcrop production is marketed by private traders in traditional
markets. Foodcrop prices are determined principally by supply and demand,
and vary from region to region. In 1977, the Government established a
parastatal marketing company (SOBECOV) in order to stabilize food prices
and supply. This company has had so far little impact and is experiencing
financial and management difficulties. Marketing cooperatives are supported
by religious missions or by the Government. The major problems faced by
the cooperatives are lack of trained personnel, insufficient working capital
and inadequate or non-existent infrastructure. A project financed by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) in the Ngozi province is successfully
addressing some of these problems. Producer prices for export crops are
set by the Government and marketing is regulated by the relevant public
company (para. 34).



-9-
The Coffee Sub-Sector.
30.       About 95 percent of Burundi's coffee is of the Arabica variety
grown exclusively by smallholders. The main smallholder coffee growing
areas are Ngozi, Gitega and Muyinga provinces; Ngozi provides over one
third of total production. Most of the production is exported. Mainly
due to weather, Burundi's coffee production and exports fluctuate greatly.
Annual production of green coffee has varied between 17,000 and 23,000
tons in recent years. Coffee husbandry standards vary, but mulching could
be much improved in general. Although there are no reliable data, it is
estimated that yields are low, and have been generally decreasing except
in the area of the two IDA-financed coffee projects. About three quarters
of the coffee crop is still pulped by hand on the farms and most of the
rest is pulped at some 325 handpulping centers. Because of frequent breakdowns,
the productivity of these centers is low. About 4 percent of the coffee
is processed in washing stations built under two IDA Credits (para. 40).
In general, coffee quality suffers from indiscriminate picking, poor processing
and drying, and inadequate storage and hulling.
31.       Parchment coffee is sold by farmers directly to private traders
licensed by the Government-controlled Industrial Crop Development Office
(OCIBU), or to the washing stations. For the most part, private traders
are independent businessmen who have developed strong economic ties with
the local population and lend money to farmers during the off-season.
Parchment coffee is transported to Bujumbura and delivered to OCIBU for
hulling, grading, packaging and sale to the exporting company (BCC) (para. 34)
at a set price. Producer prices of parchment coffee and coffee cherries
are set before the beginning of each season by the Government in relation
to the expected export price. The Government guarantees the purchase of
all coffee presented for sale during the coffee season. In recent years,
this pricing policy has guaranteed a satisfactory minimum price to the
farmers, and provided the Government with an important source of revenue
after contributions to a Stabilization Fund (whose purpose is to protect
producer prices from export price variations). Although the level of coffee
prices received by farmers represents a reasonable proportion of import
prices, it is expected that the price level will become a major issue in
the future in view of: (a) relatively high domestic inflation, (b) increased
cost of inputs; (c) declining international coffee prices (para. 32);
and (d) the possibility of competition between coffee and foodcrop cultivation.
It was agreed during negotiations that IDA and the Government would exchange
views each year on Government policy relating to coffee production (Section
4.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
32.       Burundi's coffee exports represent about one half of one percent of
world exports. Over 60 percent of Burundi's semi-washed coffee is sold
in the United States. The small quantities of high quality fully washed
coffee produced so far have been sold on the European market. Coffee demand
from importing countries is expected to increase by 2.5 percent a year
during the next decade. Prices in 1977 constant dollars averaged $3.18/kg
in 1978 and are expected to decline gradually to $1.85 in 1983 and then
to increase progressively to $2.30 in 1990. These projections are to be
taken within the context of crop uncertainties and of the practice of some



- 10 -
exporting countries to grant discounts in return for a guarantee to purchase
an agreed volume. Investments in washing stations under the proposed Project
(para. 49) would allow Burundi to supply quality coffee which would be
sold at a premium price. The six-year International Coffee Agreement,
which became effective on October 1, 1976, provides for the introduction
of export quotas when prices fall below a specified level. Burundi's export
quota for the 1980-81 coffee season was set at 24,000 tons, which, as had
been the case for the preceding years, was higher than production (para.
30). Burundi is also entitled to a production increase of 5% per annum.
The estimated incremental coffee production for the proposed project falls
within this range.
Agricultural Services
33.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for
direction and coordination of all activities in the agricultural and live-
stock sector. It operates through three General Directorates, for Planning,
Agriculture and Livestock. Agricultural services are regionalized with
most departments represented at the level of "arrondissements" (which is
the intermediate level of administration between the provinces and the
conmunes). The Ministry of Rural Development was created in 1979 to take
over the responsibility of rural housing, water supply and electricity,
and cooperatives. Both Ministries are understaffed. Most of the Government
recurrent budget for agriculture, representing only 3 to 5 percent of the
total recurrent budget in the past decade, finances the central services
of the Ministries. Extension services are fragmented among the Ministry
of Agriculture, parastatal organizations and various projects and, in most
cases, are weak.
34.       The three parastatals dealing with the main export crops (coffee,
cotton and tea) are basically supply and marketing organizations. The
coffee organization, OCIBU (which has been the executing agency for the
First and Second Coffee Improvement Project, financed by IDA) is primarily
concerned with ensuring that Burundi coffee quality is in accordance with
internationally recognized standards. It also establishes and maintains
communal coffee hand pulpers and washing stations; imports, distributes
and supervises the use of pesticides, fertilizers and other coffee-related
inputs and administers the Coffee Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promotion
Fund. OCIBU also controls internal coffee marketing and operates four
hulling factories. OCIBU's resources come from taxes levied on coffee
exports and from loans and grants from Government. Coffee export is the
responsibility of the Burundi Coffee Company (BCC), a parastatal under
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
35.       Agricultural research is carried out by the Burundi Institute
of Agricultural Sciences (ISABU). Due to lack of staff and equipment, ISABU
has so far been unable to assign personnel exclusively to coffee research.
Burundi has four secondary level agricultural institutes from which about
170 agronomists, veterinary technicians and field assistants graduate each
year. Women have recently been admitted to these institutes for the first
time. The Agricultural Department at Bujumbura University produces about
a dozen graduates per year. Although almost all the graduates of these
institutions are employed by the Ministry of Agriculture, their number
is still not sufficient to meet the country's needs for trained agricultural
manpower and a heavy input of expatriate technical assistance is required.



- 11 -
36.       Agricultural credit is not well developed in Burundi.  The Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), created in 1967, is the only
source of medium-term agricultural credit, but such credit represented
only 10 percent of its loans outstanding at the end of 1978. The lack
of a nationwide network, the high risks involved given the small size of
farms and the farmers' low incomes, and the lack of trained staff are the
main obstacles which have prevented BNDE from becoming an effective vehicle
of rural credit. Commercial banks finance seasonal working capital needs
of traders but do not extend credit to farmers who are considered too high
a risk. A new financial institution (CAMOFI) was established in 1979 to
provide financing for development projects implemented by public enterprises;
its role in rural development projects, however, has been so far quite
limited. Under financing from the Second Technical Assistance Project
(para. 23), the feasibility of establishing an agricultural credit institution
is being reviewed.
Government Objectives.
37.       The Government's third Five-Year Economic and Social Development
Plan (1978-82) declares agriculture as the priority sector. The Plan's
main objectives are soil protection, food self-sufficiency, import substitution
(wheat, sugar, tobacco, wood), expansion and diversification of exports
(sugar, quinine, fruits and vegetables), development of livestock and fishing,
arresting deforestation, and increasing the return on existing investments.
The Plan aims, by pursuing these objectives, to raise rural incomes, improve
nutrition, settle young couples in less densely populated areas, and improve
rural social and cultural services. Rural areas are to benefit from 57
percent of total investment (22% of direct investments and 35% of related
infrastructure). Because of the constraints mentioned above (para. 33),it
is, however, estimated that less than 50 percent of the plan objectives
were met during the period 1978-80. Moreover, investments in the agricultural
sector are being implemented more slowly than investments in other sectors.
38.       To achieve the Plan objectives, the Government is encouraging
the creation of cooperatives (para. 29), and is establishing Regional Development
Companies (RDC), which would integrate Government services in a single
organization, under independent management (para. 16). The RDCs are financially
autonomous legal entities, whose sole equity owner is the Government.
They are essentially public service institutions and their commercially
oriented activities are expected to be limited in scope.  Their investment
and operating costs will therefore be mostly covered by Government
subsidies. The RDCs' main function is to become gradually responsible for
all rural development activities including the delivery of agricultural
inputs and the implementation of specific projects financed either by the
Government or by external donors. The management of coffee washing stations
and of handpulping centers is also to be transferred from OCIBU to the
RDCs. To date, five RDCs have been created.
IDA Operations in the sector.
39.       Four IDA Credits have been made for agricultural projects (para.
21). In addition, the Second Technical Assistance Credit finances the
services of experts to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in the identifica-
tion and preparation of new projects, in the start-up, monitoring and evalua-
tion of ongoing projects, and in the establishment of a data collection



- 12 -
system on agricultural production. Overall project implementation has
been satisfactory although the provision of budgetary funds has been a
recurrent problem and the fisheries project has encountered some difficulties
(Annex II).
40.        The First Coffee Improvement Project (Ngozi I) has been completed.
The principal objective of the project, which was implemented from 1969
to 1976 under the responsibility of OCIBU, was to increase coffee production
and improve the quality of coffee grown by about 44,000 smallholders in
the Ngozi region. The Project included the following components: (a) strengthening
of extension services; (b) distribution of fertilizers, other inputs and
tools to farmers; (c) construction and operation of four washing stations
and rehabilitation of handpulping centers; (d) fertilizer trials; and (e)
repair of bridges on access roads. The Second Coffee Improvement Project
(Ngozi II) which started in 1976, was to continue the activities started
under the first project and to develop foodcrop production. It also included
experimental rural development activities, including the improvement of
small livestock, the use of water mills and the establishment of farmers'
cooperatives. The project is nearly completed. A Project Completion Report
on the Ngozi I Project was issued in September 1976, a Project Performance
Audit Report in March 1977, and an Impact Evaluation Report on February 2,
1981.
41.       The main conclusions of these reports are that in the absence
of reliable data, it is impossible to assess the impact of the Ngozi I
Project on the increase in coffee production. Staffing and procurement
problems also delayed and seriously hindered project implementation. Incre-
mental income was estimated at less than US$10 dollars per farm household
at full development. Implementation of the Second Project has also been
affected by many problems, including (a) a high turnover of both expatriate
and local management staff (b) lack of an adequate supply of construction
materials due to transport difficulties; (c) a weak and inefficient extension
workforce as well as lack of management follow-up in foodcrop development
which resulted in a relative failure of the foodcrop component; and (d) delays
in availability of Government counterpart funds and absence of prefinancing
mechanism for working capital needs. The achievements of the Project to
date include: (a) the construction and better management of the washing
stations as a result of the recruitment of competent managers
and the growing confidence of the farmers in them; (b) a well-run cons-
truction service which has been able to construct buildings and repair
roads at acceptable standards, much below prevailing market prices;
(c) the establishment and maintenance of coffee nurseries throughout the Project
area.
42.       Detailed reviews of the first project and a preliminary review
of the second underline a number of important lessons. They include:
(a) Data Base - A more reliable data base and better monitoring of Project
activities are essential for assessing the Project impact; (b) Socio-
Economic Environment - It is important to understand the relationships
between farmers, traders and extension workers in the Project area and
the factors that are likely to influence their behavior; (c) Management



- 13 -
and Organization - The general shortage of trained manpower in Burundi
and the weakness of the extension services make it important to assess
the training needs of the Project staff and take appropriate measures to
satisfy them. It is also important to ensure staff continuity. Finally,
the technical package to be extended to the farmers must be understood
by extension workers and they must be able to communicate it to the farmers; and
(d) Prices - Participation of the farmers and the success of the develop-
ment programs depend on appropriate prices being paid to farmers for their
coffee. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
proposed Project, in particular through: (a) provision for a monitoring
and evaluation system that would ensure adequate data collection (para. 56);
(b) the emphasis put on training (para. 55) and the reduction of the Project's
scope and complexity; (c) provision for a periodic review of coffee
prices to producers (para. 31); and (d) the establishment of a prefinancing
mechanism (para. 60).
PART IV. THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed Project was appraised in July-August 1980.  Negotia-
tions were completed in Washington in October 1981. The Government
delegation was led by Mr. Sabimbona, Ambassador of Burundi in Washington.
A detailed description of the Project components can be found in the Staff
Appraisal Report (No.3230-BU), dated October 14, 1981, which is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the Project are highlighted in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning
of this report. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex
HIT:.
The Project Area
44.       The Project area would be the province of Ngozi, which has a
surface of about 2,700 km2, a population of about 700,000 (17% of Burundi's
population), and a density of about 260 inhabitants per km2, which makes
it the most densely populated region in the country. The area is made
up of rolling hills with intensely cultivated slopes and marshy, often
peaty, flat valley bottoms. Its altitude varies from 1,500 to 2,200 m.
Soils are mostly deep and well drained, but large sections on steep slopes
are subject to serious water erosion. Their production potential varies
from average to good. The area has a relatively dense road network; most
roads are passable during the rainy season.
Objectives and Description of the Project.
45.       The main objective of the proposed Project, which would be the
third agricultural development project in the Ngozi Province (para. 40),
would be: (a) to assist smallholders to improve the productivity of coffee
and foodcrop cultivation; (b) to improve the quality of exported coffee;
and (c) to improve rural living conditions by building or maintaining
water sources, equipping social centers and developing wood resources
to be used as fuelwood, building poles and timber. By establishing a new
RDC (paras. 55-57) and strengthening its management capability through
training and technical assistance, the project would also contribute to
institution building.



- 14 -
46.       The Project would be implemented over about five years and would
include the following components:
(a) a program to provide extension services and agricultural
inputs;
(b) the construction and equipment of 15 coffee washing stations
and the strengthening of the maintenance and management of
handpulping centers;
(c) reafforestation and erosion control;
(d) improvement of the rural road network, water supply and
social infrastructure;
(e) a pilot swamp development program;
(f) the construction of marketing warehouses;
(g) studies, research, and Project monitoring;
(h) training and technical assistance; and
(i) establishment of the RDC which is to implement the Project.
47.       Extension Services and Provision of Inputs.  Existing extension
services would be developed and strengthened through recruitment of additional
extension workers, on-the-job training of existing and new workers and
provision of continuous training through refresher courses. The extension
program for coffee would include the distribution of inputs, principally
fertilizers, pesticides and improved seeds, the setting up of a network
of demonstration plots, continuation of the teaching of coffee husbandry
techniques, which have already improved in the Project area as a result
of the first two coffee projects (paras. 40-42), and the training of farmers
in erosion control and pesticide application measures. The foodcrop farming
program would be simple and would focus on improved seeds, fertilizer use,
seeding, spacing and weeding techniques, and disease and insect control.
48.       Government policy on the import of inputs, in particular fertilizers,
and their pricing to farmers has not been consistent in recent years; this
has resulted in variable and insufficient levels of imports to satisfy
demand. Under the Project, inputs would be sold at cost to farmers, (exclud-
ing the distribution cost of the RDC), except pesticides and fertilizers.
Pesticides would continue to be supplied free of charge in the context
of nationwide campaigns. As for fertilizers, at the present time they
are obtained in small quantities through external aid programs and sold
to farmers with a subsidy of about 25%; pending the definition of a new
fertilizer policy, this level of subsidization would be maintained for
the time being. However, systematic surveys would be carried out under
the Project monitoring system to gather and interpret data which would
assist the Government in defining a fertilizer policy; it is expected
that by the end of Project year 3 these surveys would have yielded sufficient
information for this purpose. The Government would make available to the



- 15 -
RDC the funds, including foreign exchange, necessary to meet the recurrent
annual needs for fertilizers and pesticides (Section 4.08(b) and (c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the context of the definition
of the fertilizer policy referred to above, attention would be given to
devising a pricing policy for fertilizers which would aim at gradually
increasing the RDC's revenues, in particular through the introduction of
a margin to cover the RDC's distribution costs. This matter would also
be reviewed during the annual exchange of views which is to take place
between the Government and the Association on policies related to coffee
production (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       Washing Stations and Pulping Centers.  The purpose of the washing
stations component would be to improve the quality of processed coffee
from semi-washed to fully washed, a grade which attracts a higher price
in the international market. In addition to the construction and equipment
of 15 new stations, the Project would finance training of Burundian nationals
at all levels for their operations. The management of the washing stations
and of the handpulping centers, now under OCIBU, would be transferred to
the RDC. A technical committee would be set up by December 31, 1981 to
define the technical operating norms of the washing stations and handpulping
centers and monitor the RDC's compliance with them (section 5.05 of the
Draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Reafforestation and Erosion Control.  The objective of the forestry
program would be to provide fuelwood, poles and timber which are in very
short supply. About 2,500 ha of land not used for other cultivations would
be planted witlh trees. Seedlings would be produced by the RDC and supplied
to the farmers at cost. When appropriate, the Project would utilize nurseries
of the on-going forestry project. The erosion control program would consist
of the planting of anti-erosion hedges on individual holdings, controlled
burning and controlled grazing on communal land, and tree planting.
51.       Socio-Economic Infrastructure.  Although the road network is
relatively well developed (para. 44), access roads must be built and some
improvements are necessary to facilitate the shipment of coffee from the
washing stations by heavier trucks. The road improvement component, which
would be carried out by force account by the RDC, would consist of construction
of about 30 bridges and 30 km of new access roads and maintenance of the
most frequently utilized roads (140 km). Secondary roads maintenance would
continue to be carried out by the communes through community labor. The
maintenance of the existing water supply system would be improved and new
springs and wells developed. Financing would be provided for the construction
of about 1,000 water sources. The project would also help improve the
efficiency of existing social centers through staff training and provision
of badly needed transportation means. This component would be implemented
by the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. The proposed expenditures
to carry out this component would be included in the Annual Work Program
(para. 56).



- 16 -
52.       Pilot Swamp Development.  The pilot swamp development program
would seek to improve dry season farming in valley bottom lands, explore
the feasibility of rainy season cropping and study the potential for exploita-
tion of valley bottoms and peat lands. If the pilot Project produces favorable
results, it could be usefully replicated in other parts of the country.
53.       Marketing Warehouses.  To assist the cooperatives in their efforts
to improve the marketing of foodcrops in the Project area (para. 29), 10
warehouses would be built and equipment would be provided. The selection
of warehouses to be built would be reviewed by the Board of the RDC and
proposals would be included in the annual Work Program (para. 56).
54.       Studies, Research, and Project Monitoring.  Funds for the prepara-
tion of studies, research, training and project montoring are included in Project
costs. As indicated above (para. 27), the Project would finance studies
to assist in establishing a national livestock policy and to prepare projects
related to livestock development. In cooperation with activities financed
under the Kirimiro Project, the Project would also support the ISABU coffee
and foodcrop research program. Proposals would be made by the RDC to ISABU
concerning the orientation of research activities and submitted
to IDA for approval in the annual work program. The RDC would operate two
foodcrop research stations in collaboration with ISABU. Following a preliminary
study of farm production systems, yields, use of inputs, and marketing in
the Project area, a Monitoring and Evaluation system would be established.
A representative sample of farmers would be randomly selected and would
serve as a reference to evaluate the impact of the Project. Data would
be collected by extension workers under the supervision of the expatriate
extension and training specialist (para. 55).
55.       Training and Technical Assistance.   The objectives of this program
would be to establish and develop the management capability of the RDC,
to train the existing extension staff, to reinforce the management of the
washing stations, and to improve the maintenance and supervision of the
hand pulping centers. Fellowships for the training abroad of RDC and Burundi
Coffee Company staff would also be financed. Internationally-recruited
technical assistants would be required to strengthen the RDC management
capability and to train local staff. They would include an extension and
training expert for about 48 man-months; a washing stations manager for
about 48 man-months; an accounting and finance manager for about 48 man-
months; a bacteriologist for coffee research for 48 man-months; a topographer
for six man-months; a construction specialist for 48 man-months; a draftsman
for three man-months and a land use specialist for 48 man-months. The total
cost of the technical assistance component would be US$2.8 million excluding
contingencies. The Government is in the process of recruiting technical assist-
ance with financing under the Project Preparation Facility. The terms of
reference, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of the specialists and consultants would be satisfactory to the Association
and these specialists would be given the necessary authority to carry out
their responsibility, pursuant to their terms of reference. The draft contracts,
including terms of reference, would be submitted to the Association for its
review and concurrence prior to their signing (Section 4.02 (a) (b) and (d)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Project Implementation.
56.       The Buyenzi Regional Development Company (RDC), which was legally
established in March 1981, would implement the Project (para. 38). The
Project would finance the construction, equipping and maintenance of the
RDC's headquarters and of one training center. Responsibility for the
day-to-day Project implementation would be vested in the RDC manager.
Under the ongoing Ngozi II Project, a specialized department created within
OCIBU and headed by a qualified Burundian national was responsible for
Project implementation. This department would be detached from OCIBU and
become the nucleus around which the RDC would develop. The head of the
Department has become the RDC manager. The staff employed under the ongoing
Second Coffee Improvement project would be transferred to the RDC. The
Project would be implemented on the basis of annual work programs and budgets
prepared by the RDC. The annual work program and budget would be submitted
each year to IDA and IFAD for comments before its revicw by the Board of
Directors of the RDC. Following its adoption by the Board, it would be
transmitted to IDA, for approval, by the Minister of Agriculture, with
his coments (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Submission of the First Work Program and Budget would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (section 7.01 (e) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). For each year, communication to IDA and IFAD of a satis-
factory work program would be a condition of disbursement against activities
for that year (schedule I, para. l(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       The governing bodies of the RDC are the Board of Directors and
a Management Committee. The Board of Directors is chaired by a representative
of the Minister of Agriculture (who is now the chairman of OCIBU) and
includes the representatives of the Ministers of Planning, Economy, Finance,
Social Affairs, Trade and Industry, Rural Development, the Government of
the Ngozi Province, a representative of farmers and a representative of
cooperatives in the area. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring
that Government development policies are implemented through the RDC.
The responsibilities of the Board are: (i) RDC policy making; (ii) review
and approval of the RDC annual work programs and annual investment and
operating budgets before their submission to the Minister of Agriculture;
and (iii) review and control of RDC performance. The Management Committee
comprises the Manager and his deputies and could include representatives
of farmers in the area, as determined by the Board of Directors. The Govern-
ment would inform IDA sufficiently in advance of any planned changes in
the composition of the Board of the RDC (section 4.03 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
58.       The RDC would comprise the following departments:  Accounting
and Finance, Agricultural Services; Training and Extension; Construction,
and Technical. During Project implementation, these departments, except
for the Agricultural Services Department which would be headed by a qualified
Burundian already in post, would be headed by internationally-recruited
experts (para. 55) working closely with key Burundian staff. The Burundian
staff would gradually assume more responsibilities and eventually replace
the expatriates. To ensure satisfactory Project implementation, a sufficient
number of Burundian staff would be hired in addition to the technical assistance
team. Under the statutes of the RDC, the RDC manager and his deputies



- 18 -
are appointed by the Chief of State on the basis of proposals from the
Minister of Agriculture. The terms of reference of all key Burundian personnel,
were discussed at negotiations, and it was agreed that: (a) IDA would be
consulted on all appointments to these positions; and (b) the Government
would consult IDA before making changes in these positions (section 4.04
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In order to retain qualified
Burundian staff, the RDC would establish a compensation plan which would
offer adequate incentives to its staff, in particular by providing for merit
allowances (Section 4.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
appointment of the RDC manager, the agricultural services manager, the
training officer, and the chief accountant would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (section 7.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing.
59.       Total Project costs are estimated at about US$28.9 million, of
which about US$18.2 million or 63% represents foreign exchange costs. Taxes
and duties are included in Project costs but are negligible. The costs
are incremental and do not include salaries for the existing extension
work force but they include the RDC's operating costs during the period
-f Project implementation since the RDC's establishment represents a Project
cost. The Project would be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR14.2 million
'-3S$16 million). The Credit would be made available to the RDC in the
form of a grant (section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Credit would finance about 55% of total Project costs, including the
equivalent of US$4.3 million of local costs, which is justified given the
very limited financial resources of Burundi (para. 20). IFAD would jointly
finance the Project with IDA through a loan of SRD6,250,000 equivalent
(US$7 million) representing about 24% of total Project cost. The Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development would extend a loan of US$3 million
representing about 10 percent of Project costs, on a parallel basis. The
Government of Burundi would finance about 10 percent of Project costs.
The Association would be the Administrator of the IFAD loan. The IDA,
IFAD and Kuwait Fund loans would be linked by cross-effectiveness conditions
(Section 7.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       The Government counterpart funds would be made available to the
RDC on a quarterly basis; each irstallment, which would represent one-
fourth of the yearly estimated contribution, would be deposited in the
RDC Central Bank account no later than the end of the first month of the
quarter (Section 4.08 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Deposit of the first installment would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(section 7.01 (f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). After Project
completion, Government would have to contribute about US$1.2 million per
year to the operating costs of the RDC, mainly to cover the cost of extension
services and road maintenance. Under the Ngozi II Project, the Project
Unit is borrowing from local commercial banks to prefinance the operating
costs of the washing stations and meet seasonal credit needs. Under the
proposed Project, the Government and the RDC would sign an agreement with
the National Bank for Savings and Investment (CAMOFI), according to which
CAMOFI would provide a line of credit to the RDC, sufficient to prefinance
the expenditures of the RDC under the proposed Project. Repayment of the



- 19 -
principal amounts and interest due under this agreement would be guaranteed
by the Government. (Section 5.04 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The signing of this agreement as well as the provision of the Govern-
ment guarantee through a "lettre d'aval" would be a condition of effective-
ness of the Credit (section 7.01(h) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
61.       Contracts exceeding US$100,000 for the supply of fertilizers
and pesticides (about US$3 million including contingencies) would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Contracts for inputs, materials, tools, vehicles and equipment
other than washing station equipment (about US$3.6 million) costing less
than US$100,000 individually would be awarded on the basis of Government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, with the provision that
quotations would be sought from all suppliers represented in Burundi and
offering adequate guarantees of service and supply of parts (schedule 3(C)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To ensure continuity in operations,
and facilitate maintenance, the machinery and equipment to be procured
for the washing stations (about US$1.2 million) could be purchased directly
from existing suppliers provided that adequate justification for the award
of the contract was furnished to the Association. Construction of staff
housing, training facilities, offices, warehouses, roads and bridges would
be carried out by force account in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association (schedule 3(C) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
62.       The Kuwait Fund would disburse on a parallel basis against the
following items: vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles (US$1.0 million);
rural roads network (U.S.$1.0 million); warehouses (US$0.5 million); and
pilot marshland development (US$0.5 million). Disbursements under the
IDA credit and the IFAD loan would be made jointly, with IDA disbursing
70 percent for each item and IFAD 30 percent, on the following basis: (a)
100% of foreign and 90% of local expenditures for incremental expenditures
for fertilizers and inputs; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for equipment, other than vehicles, motorcycles and
bicycles; (c) 90% of total expenditures for civil works; (d) 90% of total
expenditures for operating costs of Project implementation: (e) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for technical assistance;
(f) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for studies,
research and training; and (g) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for studies to assist in establishing a national livestock
policy and to prepare projects related to rural development (upto US$220,000
and 90,000 respectively). IDA would finance 100 percent of the advance
made under the Project Preparation Facility. Disbursements against (a),
(b) and (e) would be fully documented. Disbursements against (d), (f),
and (g) for local expenditures would be made against statements of expendi-
tures certified by the RDC director and the administrative and finance
manager. For each year, communication to IDA and IFAD of a satisfactory
work program would be a condition of disbursement against activities for
that year (para. 56).



- 20 -
Accounts and Audits
63.       The RDC would maintain records and accounts adequate to explain
all Project activities. These accounts and would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and would be submitted together with the auditor's
report to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year
(Section 5.01 (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Communication
to IDA of the audit of the accounts of the Ngozi II Project, for which
independent auditors acceptable to IDA have recently been recruited, would
be a condition of the effectiveness of the Credit (section 7.01 (g) of
the draft Development Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
64.       An estimated 75,000 farm families would receive assistance for
coffee and foodcrop development over four and a half years. A further
75,000 would benefit from assistance with coffee development only. The
annual incremental cash income of an average farmer in Project Year 10
is expected to vary between approximately US$15 and US$70.  Project investments
would create permanent jobs for the equivalent of about 850 man years at
various levels, excluding farm level labor requirements. During the implementa-
tion period, another 2,500 persons would be employed to meet unskilled
labor requirements.
65.       The economic rate of return (ERR) from directly productive Project
components, i,presenting about 80% of Project cost, is. estimated at about
26%. The cost.- of the pilot swamp program, studies and trials were not
included in the analysis, as benefits from these activities are difficult
to quantify and would accrue principally in future projects. The economic
life of the Project has been assumed to be 20 years. Foreign exchange
costs and benefits were valued at a premium of 20% over the official rate
to reflect more accurately the scarcity of foreign exchange. Economic
rates of return for the coffee and foodcrop development, the washing stations
and the hand pulping centers were estimated at 28%, 30% and 11%, respectively.
No separate rate of return was calculated for the reafforestation and erosion
control, the water supply and social infrastructure, the marketing warehouses,
or the improvement of roads and bridges because of the difficulty
of quantifying, in a satisfactory manner, the benefits from each of them.
If Project costs were to increase by 20%, the ERR would decrease by four
to five percentage points. If crop yields or prices were to decrease by
20%', the ERR would decrease by the same amount. If farmers' adoption rates
were to decrease by 20% and costs were simultaneously to ncrease by 20%, the ERR
would become 16%. If all benefits were delayed one year, the ERR would
become 21%.
The main risks facing Project implementation are possible delays
:n recruiting expatriate and/or Burundian key staff, slow delivery of materials,
hig> staff turnover, and possible weaknesses of the extension services (with
the r sk that the technical package might be adopted by farmers at a slower
rate than expected), and lcier than expected yield improvements.
Although the proposed technical package is simple and fits with current
farming practices, farmers' adoption rates would be partly a function
of the efficiency of the extension services and mainly a functio*n of the financial



- 21 -
rewards farmers would get if they participate in Project activities.
The Project has been designed to minimize these risks. Training is a major
Project component and should help improve the quality of extension services.
As for farmers' incentives, farm budgets indicate that farmers' incomes
would increase substantially as a result of the application of the proposed
technical program. With regard to yields, the sensitivity analysis shows
that the rate of return is not unduly sensitive to yield drops (para. 65).
As a first step toward solving the problem of staff turnover, a consultation
covenant, as well as a provision for a new compensation plan, are included
in the Development Credit Agreement (para. 58).
V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.        Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report. The additional conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed Credit are as follows:
(a)   employment of key technical assistants and key Burundian
staff (paras. 55 and 58);
(b)   establishment of the Buyenzi RDC, with statutes
satisfactory to the Association (para. 56);
(c)   signature of the Pre-financing Agreement, guaranteed
by the Government (para. 60);
(d)   submission and IDA approval of the annual work program
and budget for the period September 1981 to December
1982 (para. 56);
(e)   Deposit by the Government of the first quarterly install-
ment (para. 60);
(f)   audit of the Ngozi II Project accounts (para. 63);and
(g)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
IFAD loan and all conditions precedent to initial disbursements
under the Kuwait Fund Loan, except for the effectiveness of the
IDA Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled (para. 60).
69.        I am satisfied that the Proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 12, 1981



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                       Page 1 of 5
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LURUNDI                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEtA0ES
LAND AREA tTHOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)!!
TOTAL              27.8                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCME                MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      17.1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAMARA  AFRICA SOUTH CF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    50.0        90.0    i18.0 i                 238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPtION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       Il.O/c       11.3       17.3                 70.5                     707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  2851.0        3350.0    4022.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 2.2            2.2        2.3                  17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20O0 (MILLIONS)                         6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       102.6        120.5     144.7                  2-7.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    168.8         208.6     230.6                  73.7                     130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.5         43.8      41.9                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.6         53.2      54.8                  52.4                      51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.9         3.0        3.3                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.6         1.6        2.0  I                2.6                      2.8
URNAN                                1.6         1.6        2.4  Al               6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.8         44.1       45.3                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.5         24.2       22.3                  19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          2.9        2.9                   3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          103.0        100.0     104.0                  89.5                      89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0         98.0      97.0                  90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.0         61.0      60.0                   52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         30.0      30.0                  17.8                      16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE      41.0         36.0       32.8                  27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2          39.5      41.8                   45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       140.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                           77.0      94.0                   55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                  18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOIAL                                ..           ..         .                   26.2
URBAN                                 ..        96.0      95.0                  63.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          96566.7      55833.3   45020.0               31911.8                   13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON      6768.7       7494.4    6180.0                3674.9                    2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             877.6        744.4        ..                1238.8                    1028.4
URDAN                              27.3        113.4        ..                  272.8                    423.0
RURAL                            3723.1       1074.9        ,.                 1745.2                   3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL                                ..           ..       5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PPF ROOM
TOTAL                                .,
URBAN                                                                              ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
MIAN                                 **
RUIRAL                               ..           ..
ibe following figures reflect the most recently available data:
1/  200.0                  2/ 2.2                 3/ S.0



ANNEX I
- 24-                                      Page 2 of 5
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURUNDI                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER/AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS                                         l/
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 18.0         27.0      21 0  -               56.4                     73.7
MALE                  27.0        37.0       26.0  -               70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                 9.0        18.0       17.0  3/              50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          2.0       3.0  4/              10.0                     16.2
MALE                   1.0         3.0        4.0 5/               13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 1.0         1.0        2.0 6/                6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  35.0          24.0      12.0 7/                8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         37.0      33.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                          15.0         12.0      16.0/d                25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        13.9/c         ..      25.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.9          1.1       1.3                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         20.0         19.4      27.6                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                  1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         0.1       0.3                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                  1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1495.2       1676.8    1923.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   45.6         45.2      44.4                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              90.0         87.0      84.1                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          4.0       4.9                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                52.4         50.1      47.8                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                 58.3         56.0      54.1                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                               46.9         44.4      41.7                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          0.9       1.0                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        .                      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     213.0                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     136.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      37.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0                  39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betweea 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1975.
The following figures reflect the most recently available data:                         May, 1981
1/ 25.0    2/ 30.0   3/ 20.0    4/ 2.5
5/  3.4     6/ 1.6      7/ 13.0



- 25 -                                                                           ANNEX I
DFNT OPSO  SOCIA~L INDICATORS                                                 Page    3   of   5
Noe:Althouh thedat  ar   rn   rm   nte    eerlyjde  the -n-ho-it-tive and reliable,  titoi    loh   oe  ta   hympntbeitr
natioe-iycosponhbIe becueo.          hehc-fstoidad    deimitione nnd --npeyn  .ned by differet -ontte  ocoiien   the da. hdtaesno-
theles.a,. usfol eo d...ribe erdern of wagnitoda, indictol te-dn, and ebareo-eio  oseta in nae dlffeoe..ocrn..   .
The ea Icno  grooPIae (1)I the sane country. gronp of the -bj ett co-neyand ()  coontry grou   ilth  -o-ht  ihe  vrge Income elan nbh  -octry geno
stoctraaffinities).  In the- refeenc  grou  dat  the anrneea   popa.into  neighted nitioi  neane f...each-td1toon   h                            ny when
maeity of the onnthe  inA grobadaafothatIniao.  Sinme the coeeg   fcotr tnaco   h   odit_uor  deyono   hev nnIlab ihY of daro
and Ianonofne         Ianntemoane ..emiaed Inrlating-gaveregu                   ifntodi--tonoanohe.-  Tbetenoerg-  -eeolyceatulfconi                etegheoa1.ceof
LANDl ARIA (eb..s.ed aq.kn.) '.totme_o)  B0 hd-ttlohr  a.roh -fopulatlor  (total,
Tnrni - Totitr-s1        encee gn    o  urea and tilnodnllyetar.                                  ur- ,noI      ot   dols h.....           _pooot..    Iten f hosyituh bdel
Aglimu1tu-1 - Eariote of agrI_olena    ronr eperi  orI yI ruoney_ouiooi  to yolt  n   rvt._tr    o   yhnledhaio 
foo  -mpe, pant-e, narhet and kitchen gdedsn  -e to  IeI fohion; 1978 data.                     hobhi-i-ainoo            H-. mpilth  urn encllhn     -n-eno tly staffod
GNP PER CAPITA (USI  - G P I,  ~ ~ ~          ~         ~        ~         hyat  eon  no_ hnito.  Esthh,             nn.prooct-g yv1ttipallynt-
CDt ER  APIT  (P))    An  pe  -oPito estimates nt coret  aket prce,    -                      dta1  -ar  are 00 ot-lodod.  Ro-1 h-epiclol, hce.er, locicdc health
coineed byaoeovmno    ehod ea Wotid took Atlas (i977-79 bonis); 1960,                             nod  edi - eI rr  to  yar..acently stoffad hY o phynicine (hot by
i9N70, ond 1979 dont..                                                                            nein    uttr    ou.edle   t. hich off-o Ir-ainace
da-lon nod yro-o  a iiooted ro.g  of tmedico) foocieo    o   tto
tNERGY CONStORTION PER CAPITA -onlcneoyInof oanc io  seeny (colt_iccoo   ronhsloeiooeOh   othul gcri  hosyicaho.
and ltgote. aroenn gntnoe              guad hydr-,nnlseodoeotere-elroI--                           nndr...allorp-tta 11             Ialnroc -opitoulaaonus.dnalandautrot
trinity)  in icilog-n  of oooh eqoi-iont per -epit.; 1960, 1970, ord 1979                         cetr.  d3p:ennliodhnyti  ceo trlodd onyone  rtl
deta.                                                                                           Adnianiona per Sos-  el Red.   Totl nI_ber of ndm.iaion   oo  dinch-rgess
Aeon huuyitlr7,' Id,Ldd by tb rnghe of bnde.
POPUITLAION9 AND PITAL. STATISTICS
eTal. Pnepl1re., fftd-Yer (thousan ds) - An of July 1; 1960. 1970, aed i979                   HOUSING
llchnePepoition (ercen  of toai( -Ratio of orban to tota  .poylanton;                   A honahlid c--i-t  of n gmop of tntidiilt1 eh. aloe  liolog quaners
dhffeesn  defientioss of urban oroa  na   feecoymbty               o   uaedAteetl eat                                         hotd  n_.e ldger 'ty or nay nor be ieolded In
..agoaths   h91e91   n  17   an                                                        b  h.neod froa ierolynps
PeenlaJ-tion Pmeb-deJons                                                                      byaae, uhrc   eno e  coo -el  ubebn, and rura  - Aveag
P     a       by Idhrya   11      arn  pplto  pcennt  r   ae  o  9Ohr  fpros  e    o   o  i   cu,  e   ne  ocpe gneena
toa  tpplato  byaeadsead  theirA notltadenitrta                                                eilna   opctey    eiigentdrnpeosetntru
Projecton pormetersfor mortaity ra-s  noeProis of tree  eisasae-                        nobn-ted  ure
level, and female lit eeapemtasty  erahitheing at.li, 77.  yer.ltl, The tpur     Cdn-cinoo. l  du]lnswtleetiiye Ilvn    ucee  speetg
matereifoefertilt-y  eabits alsohar   theeleel  aehnein  dent1n to.                           of.. total  Pra,en uA      l  nI           Idenrtptnoy
tesiyPorig  oinoe  ee  andpat  fami ly. pinnin tperirmnme..
t     ILIontr  isnen assigne  one of theeteIh,     natn    foraht                  IITO
andfetiit  trnd  Ae  eentonpop ies                                              AdjuBsted iEolenot    atio
teetoner    f-tnlntiole-Iatationgey  pooainter   nn   rneeic                                    rmayuho.    oo)   aend  eae-Con   oa,n    and  fel
the birt  cats isediItg      hedat  rt,tn  o    te  g el,le  g-                                 totaotoZaldgs  tth   riar   evlatpccrtgitfreprtI
estimated nothe hosia Id the proectd chroerai    fte  ouato                               Ince acne    , pool are belo  oraboe -ptheotimel_ siolae
in  1~the   yyear   leOR  ad  th  cue  f  ecin  offeriltytees en. re-lntoa-UCTInONdrsho -tn,mtendfne-Cepsdnne;mody
nmt level.                                                                                r p-....  dj-t orqtcau   rtrCt  erso   pcne   rmc  itcci
leti ..tel ioneetf onultin  in. tea-hsd  P-Pbs iyea  theme Jtt.nyyplea                            rvdageen,vctoa,o   eme  teno    stotosb                                  oi
ehe  has~ been rearbedh.         d  tnenotly..thiof.P12 to t egr   tag;cereodeocuse   r   esel
Parolation lemeity-_I..ncluded.I
total area  19ff, 190 and 197  data.                                           inlode teohicol, indettial, o  other prgrams nteth operat_ledepsed
Per en  ha. aciculural lnd - Cmpare  Ifesunfoet  agiutra.eden..rondp.ne                                            fseodr            insttutons
ony;190  1970 asd 1919t data.                                  ..t                             PnlI-eseoheeraIo-   cleco    nde 11naY -d- T tal l st :enseiled6   Is
Pc .nlatton Age tarnoe  ..s fe gt) - Chiden ft-l."PP years)  mrin-ag  (11-. poiar  odj ntoodafy  difnel                        t divided by  puh _m y ofoscec n  h
-A yars)  aId rtired.J (IF tersen p    ovjet) al.t     IIrne  ofmi-yarppo                        hrrepoioibves
l_Ion J9.   191,ad 1909 e  fdii.I  f,ii                        t  doto.      _adolt - literac   rosa ( beeent)                      b ittete. adolts. f _hrto rendsa     rie
Iauahn  eehttefeontthoa  -Ana  got   aenc   oalmdIdpemnos  fttladl   voltn   gd  5yan  n   or
yang peolotios for  9Sf-hi,1991-7, endC9.,-_d
Paeuatin Ioet  Rat  (rrrot)s lerhad - Th.nFel growt  eatros, of urba  pPo-            CeIf.TI
istiana far 1950-hi. 196i-71, and 1970-79.                                Peensoger Cart feet thatunond noruintiom) - massager cers competes maineI.  pl.vd . g-e.1   Ice
irasnerdctC Rt-Aeag         tnne  ofdauhesgoae    bear in.                                 ilhrnsdrstnehine 1 iaca.tnttei ad  oyear  e -reiserarIitn tidtp-d
be-soml  epocte  perio .dpifablepeienasprset eg-eei-             i  Per-I. get  ens inefeo d aptat  f ere-cn  yerIaynthItmaahsao
tilny' rate.; usn0ely fireyea d    vraet enin.i   tT, 97,  nd179                              nstocrrssblths                oIeig
Pam.ly  _lAnruna-Annetor. ape nuelt  fChilsds) 0-1dane y       osb. r of amkospere              TI tsmetvlyer d oer -dyt lveludandd  bynaia)-I  r-oivee Ifn -rhadoeIe to
P6miy P..anaine - la esd (6r5ena  marrie  wnmgd pe-tPee ng  of  mareted p.p.atie  no.dL                             i   ae   hncgiiaino   Oneswsi   fst
woe   fnId- daen    g  f11 i-ltpns   h   s   ithmneldvnenoNwnrCrnuin   peta o Loe-letien)    (hame the average nile-
C_edocBtih   efalfodcaoiis   Pedutesnlde  se  ed  ed  n                                          e        trkes sol   durig th   ya, inludn d...n   o  rv-n  ha
"Iin  nclna   erbss             esaiiete   es               od  (e.g.t anguerais                and mobilll,ilitty ehnitle.
intaC     f  ae)whc   r edible And cotain nonrbi..n.d (e.g  Inf-se,,R endies(D,t  ..       P111,                                                 l   ye   f   .  -.f     .i
tan as  anelaed).  Agregat  peoutia  bf oo    nntyisbasdtn ASP.iC
pasiotil average pr9d70e  pIme aI      ge;16-5   91 n  197 ddn.otl.dcabor P                                    Bee f Ina -'  ine Idol  aciv  perona  icluding
Pee9 capisdactneely  of mlonies (cercnt of  reuieens .- Copteil            reare Sfernies.:                    end unuplaye  hotie  IunludIng         I hoseivs  studeneI, eto
energy  rqoivlentigf get fod supplie  avaiabl  in... oP oery .9peeifitafl                      hoeringJ populatio  oft ef- ge... etinitionys.. in redone        bl nntissar
car day.      .. Aalale sopplies1 ...mpeta   doaetn  ronnion, imprt 1aortnnaal;16,17   n 979.    .     ele    I1hd             .      data.
npree  ae  cAngs-  in  AtnI.  Retlb  Auple -good   -ebma  Ifed  seede,-PeTV "imseer  -~ fme lpoboc force    TV peretag    of-tta  labor f.t
quyntiRissuned            ...in  fod  ronaio,, ed lose. i  dise trigotIfn  heqire-I hoiutoce (pe Ico yt)  -                 hbn   frceginfati-g IfoTVeaty, hsIng Wend
mane  weriedetmtdb   A   an   n  hso ia   sd   o -oeaL.cr-                                     fsbag  t  eemntge  ftoa  lao   oc;If,  1971 ad p1979  dan.l
vity  nd halthtansderig snieoemntaltempeatne, bdy wights  agelndote            i portnt). labo  boiron t  in . mining  cost-oIor,   It Iufset.ordtg
FO  ed nAN   itiDino   oplto,adalnng1   em                           o   ae  atTITgndt be lererteiry, ent er. end gas                 .  aspecetage o  toaI  lbefoc;  90
handnethild  erl; 196-65  1970 l. ned tto-I                   . 1977 data.                     197R an  1979 deritto.      .,i.ld.     ..i..  .di.i   i-
nicent  n  ft grams. of tona  prigteis per1 fey end 20 grm.        fane   nd16,17,d 1979 data. .         I,~KC                Ths  non. ihed on ti0e  poetic tlnterte
edarloer, the  .ibe   of7   en   tttlpnen  n   )gasoIe siaesoefo    ainlenc
anl=Pimal   .1pesi   neoneeeg  foe nbe I aol-,ropse  by C.pAtited  ThOrd                    bnesctponyRto-Rti  of,"i, pou                  -siouner1  end 65 aad n
orl dyPoo  tuvey  196165,197. an 1       97I I  e.e   ihe total labor7fdos.
rived iteem         uniadle n   dnssigrm   per.. day  196-6.l 1970  ndi 197  date..        AlCfI hIo-lThIRLOTfIlt.ft ig,                                 ,h.t.
tries   -t daa teivedfro  liCeO  t...a  19d    1970y nedi. 1979 data,--     ti                 of hoknasod.1P ,-.g   f-1I lft;i 117                                 99d
gRaL ty   d  ePthO..IdRiTOtp-                                                                        TAR              Lb.   flc  iTi t n-btttPtf  c- 
Lif Eueotnm ait.igirth (rasIf        ceoenme  ofp ptenrs of11i.   life. rtnanin               The fl taning    y, -mtee . are ver    ppramte..tg mIfne  oft.   povery fl.evels6,
et  irh; d.1960,1y1970 and 1.1979ata                                                          and e7bdould9 be7 interrtdwthcnieabemuin
IsaeMraity  at (erithouand)           -d - Annl   eath  ofinfn oeroeya                     OntmatdeAenlerIfvreyle-maLevl ( llre cf ia)-eb1edrra
donea         Ifo f-afIa Watr  ceen  of opp plyti If enrol Irhan  and rua..  f5        ~        oeiinlyaone    itpe   nern  ro-fodeeuiemnt  in oat
b I to.pIce  toal iuba,  n  rurabl) ithdyUD reasonab e ne    tol safe                         nfet.ordaldle1..pj.i.  f   lE. 
water   . tf6  S- supply.(.ocndes erant" dnrice   ates o   unrete  but oonai"notd            n960imat7d Readv  Poverty        Te.  l.b..d. IncLOevl(tOcr .aia  .-iurbantied  neal  -
peee Ptaiee  of fth ir chse 10El     hm I papolationt            Th.. C a   rhnrfapbrpcteligtgowof th -ottry.  trhee leveltie. dond  freeti. the md
cosdsrAld as being wtbir         I   7 raaale  too  of that1 boose.  Is 2 enrol grea         tat-m ted      e P erflott-o bal ..eont Povert       oLvlfreet      ra
rsaoahl  Ace   woul  implyg that the   1 .- ha        ..nie o   eber  uFAI the Toshald         an?ua- enaeo   aooine (I ha  andI.. rural) eb  are "absolute
do nt.hv Pltoispend-s     fl dipopriosned ppar f tbrdytoi feerhle   the.d 
liveaet fnmost .iacosald pgr ento  mauaIon -1961m6, 1r9an  and mea 7-..
peroentegas21    of1 th  c  epe  ie    oulton.Leo    d-hspnsal t may .incldei                   e-..I   l                   I-    bt  I     h.dk.             e.vdb   ih
the oliamio  and dts indai       I iob or1 eitau  esatment,   1  d..lpig5.l..l,l~e of0bpmaenorstpfcanemi n2                                      d p-tona  ban p.livtigipo
6eeaio Ce Phsma  P9 po97 In divided by number-d of prCcticibng p_yit-
mIass qualifiedt    p-t ... )- f--- aicleoolaIvdnrbsIty  iae.ft.Idl..yl                                                                     S$I tpi)-lb .dlt1
Ponain  re- thIn....g PIIso -b     oultondvietyhobe   f  rctn
sale and. Sfemalegra noest eune t,pra tirlnsa  abd -sIstn   nurses.                               b...p..t    t.-lvlI   t.                    -- lee    e.    ht          



26                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    %          1970-75          1975-80            1980
GNP at Market Prices           920.0      100.0        0.9!             3.1'             1.8-Y
Gross Domestic Investment    127.7         13.9        6.6              12.1            -4.2
Gross National Savings          27.7        3.0
Current Account Balance       -100.1      -10.9
Exports of Goods, NFS           72.7        7.9        3.7              -5.7           -35.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          208.3       22.6        8.0               5.7            -8.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added
US$ Mln.       %
Agriculture                                 436.3          49.1
Industry                                    141.2          15.9
Services                                    223.1          25.1
Other 2/                                      88.6          9.9
TOTAL                   889.2        100.0       3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                               Central Government -
(BuF Million)    Percent of GDP
1980 (P)       1980   1976-78
Current Receipts                            12,715.6           14.3      14.8
Current Expenditure                         10,848.2           12.2      11.2
Current Surplus                               1,867.4           2.1       3.6
Capital Expenditures                          7,736.0           8.7       8.0
External Assistance (net)                    3,695.0            4.6       3.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                     1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
(Million BuF outstanding at end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        3544.4   5220.9   8233.2   9411.2   11452.7 10619.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                1271.6   1125.0    270.8   1660.8    4150.4  4177.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                997.0   1532.2   1886.9   4491.3    6220.4  6864.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as % of GDP                    10.8      13.2      16.8     17.0       16.1    13.3
General Price Index (1970=100)                153.1    163.6    174.6    216.4        272.1   310.2
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                            15.8       6.8       6.7     23.9       25.7    14.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                   41.7    -11.5    -75.9    513.3        149.9      0.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                -60.3      53.7      23.1    138.0        38.5    10.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered,
1/    Growth rates calculated on the basis of GDP at factor cost.
2T}    9-Net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Consolidated statement of Government finances.
(P)   Preliminary



- 27 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1977-80)
1977   1978   1979   1980-/1
(Millions US Dollars)                                             USS Mln   Z
Export of Goods, NFS               96.3   71.4  111.9   72.7          Coffee                               V5.2   91.1
Imports of Goods, NFS              94.7  123.4  192.9  208.3          Cotton                                2.1    2.5
Resource Gap (deficit - -)          1.6  -52.0  -81.0 -135.6          Skins                                 0.7    0.8
Tea                                   1.8    2.2
Interest Paymen:s (net)            -0.6   -0.9   -1.3   -3.9
Workers' Remittances                 ..
Other Factor Payments (net)       -13.1  -13.6   -8.9   -8.3
Net transfers                      29.0   32.7   34.3   47.8          All other commodities                 2.8    3.4
Balance on Current Account         16.9  -33.8  -56.8 -100.1            Total                              82.6  00.0
Direct Foreign Investment           -       -      -       -          EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    18.9   20.2   41.7   46.7                                                  US$ Mln
Amortization                      3.5    2.6    2.7    2.3          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              108.2
Subtotal                         15.4   17.6   39.0   44.4          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants                     13.8   20.9   25.4   31.1          Total outstanding and Disbursed
Other Capital (net)                -0.3  -24.6   -4.3   24.6
Other items n.e.i.                  0.2    3.2   -6.7       -
Increase in Reserves (-)          -46.1   16.7    3.4                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980
Gross Reserves (end year) 21       95.9   83.4   92.7   92.9          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              -l-
Net Reserves (end year)            86.0   69.3   65.9   65.9          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding and Disbursed
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:
Petroleum                       5.6    6.7   12.6   25.0
Exports of which:
Petroleum                       -      -      -        -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                      IDA LENDING,  September 30. 1981
U' D     IDA
(Amount expressed in US$ Million)              -
Through Feb. 1973                  Since May 3, 1976
US1I.00  -  BuF 87.5               US5l.00  -  BuF 90.0              Outstanding and Disbursed            -      44.1
BuF 100  -  USS 1.14               BuF 100  -  US$ 1.11              Undisbursed                          -      48.6
Outstanding including Undisbursed -         92.7
From March 1973 to May 2, 1976                                      (Amount expressed in SDR million)
UST1.00 - BuF 78.75
BuF 100  -  US$  1.27                                                Outstanding and Disbursed            -        -
Undisbursed                         -        3.3
Outstanding including                        33
Undisbursed
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/  Central Bank
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available -   . non applicable
September 11, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of September 30, 1981)
Amount
US$ million
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit Number           Year         Borrower       Purpose   Bank    IDA 2/ Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and five credits fully disbursed                    4.8    9.8        -
593-BU                   1975        Burundi        Second
Coffee     -     5.2        0.24
Improvement
626-BU                   1976        Burundi      Fisheries
Development   -      6.0       2.88
679-BU                   1977        Burundi      Education     -    10.0        0.06
731-BU                   1978        Burundi      Development
Bank        -      3.4       2.04
773-BU                  1978         Burundi      Second Highway
Project     -    14.0        4.48
917-BU                   1979        Burundi      Second Technical
Assistance  -      2.5       1.20
918-BU                   1979        Burundi      Forestry      -      4.3       3.30
976-BU                   1980        Burundi      Second              15.0      12.91
Education    -
1049-BU                  1980        Burundi      Urban
Development  -    15.0       13.88
1058-BU                  1981        Burundi      Telecom-
munications -      7.7       7.61
Total                     4.8   92.9      48.60
of which has been repaid 4.8    0.2
Total now held            0.0   92.7
Total undisbursed         0.0   48.6
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the Lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium
has been fully reapid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR 1,
(as of September 30, 1981)
Amount in SDR Million
Credit                                                                  - 
Number           Year      Borrower      Purpose       Original          Undisbursed
1154  2/         19o1      Burundi       Nickel         3.30               3.30
Exploration
Total now outstanding        3.30               3.30
Total now held by IDA        3.30
Total undisbursed            0.0                3.30
1/ Two credits were approved by the Board for a Third Highway Project (SDR20.5 million)
and a Kirimiro Rural Development Project (SDR16.2 million) in April and
June 1981, respectively, and are expected to Be signed shortlv.
2/ Not yet effective.
C. Statement of IFC Investments
Amount in US$ Million
Type of
Year     Obligor         Business                Loan    Equity   Total
1981     Verreries du   Glass container
Burundi                                4.65    0.78      5.63
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                      4.65    0.78      5.63
Total commitments now held by IFC                4.65    0.78      5.63
Total undisbursed                                4.65    0.78      5.63



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
D. Projects in Execution 1/
as of September 30th, 1981
Credit No. 593-BU    Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million of
December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the First Coffee
Improvement Project (US$1.8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969).  It
is being co-financed by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis
and by Belgium (about US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund has financed the
construction of coffee washing stations and of the road construction component,
and Belgium assists in the carrying out of a coffee research component. The
project is designed to support the development of coffee and food production by
strengthening and expanding extension services and distribution of agricultural
inputs; it includes a pilot rural development program to improve livestock and
food crop production. Start up of the project was slow because of frequent
changes in foreign and local project staff. Following the appointment of a new
team of experts and of a new Burundian manager, project management improved.
Coffee extension work is showing favourable results. Husbandry methods
practiced by coffee growers continue to improve and coffee research activities
are making satisfactory progress. Construction of twelve washing stations has been
completed. The results of the coffee processing component are very
satisfactory due to efficient management of the washing stations and the fact
that farmers have started to pay greater attention to quality aspects of coffee
production. The pilot food crop development program has encountered
difficulties. The project is nearly completed. However, to allow for completion
of the construction program, the Closing Date will be postponed to April 30,
1982.
Credit No. 626-BU      Fisheries Development Project: US$6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This project is designed to increase the production of
fish through the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen
and to improve the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project also
includes financing for the preparation of rural development plans for the
coastal region along Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot
development activities. The project is cofinanced by a US$1.2 million loan
from the Abu-Dhabi Fund. Project implementation was initially very slow
because of problems encountered in the recruitment of both expatriate technical
assistants and their national counterparts and in the procurement of goods.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 31 -
o-'mEX TT
Page 4 of 6
Some of these constraints have been overcome and the pace of project
implementation has accelerated. Production of a limited number of fiberglass
hulls for fishing boats has begun and there has been an improvement in the
catch rates at some fishing centers. A new experiment is underway to use low
quality local wood and a minimum amount of foreign exchange to produce longer
lasting and cheaper laminated wood baots. Problems of shortages of spare parts
for the outboard engines are being solved. Contracts for all the studies have
been signed and all of them are underway. However, SUPOBU's activities related
to commercialization and marketing of fish have been unsuccessful, causing
severe financial strains on the Company. Further to a review of implementation
problems with the Government, it was decided to stop all processing and
marketing activities except for high value frozen fish, and limit SUPOBU's role
to the provision of fishing craft and gear and extension services.
Credit No. 679-BU      Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date : September 1, 1977; Closing Date: March
31, 1983.
In line with the reform of primary education in 1973, the
main objectives of the Project were to develop primary education in rural
areas, and in particular to introduce practical subjects in the curriculum and
the local language as the medium of instruction. The project included (a)
construction and equipment of 100 Multi-purpose Learning Centers (MLCs)  -  to
be utilized by primary school students and the local community at large  -  and
of a practical subject teacher training center; and (b) provision of equipment
and technical assistance to the Rural Education Bureau, which is responsible
for the implementation of the reform, as well as for teacher training. As a
result of a shortage of cement and fuel caused by the hostilities in Uganda in
1979, project execution has been delayed by about a year. Because of this
interruption and of higher than anticipated price increases, the Project is
encountering high cost overruns. The construction of 21 MLCs, a teacher
training center and a printshop has been completed. Due to high cost overruns,
and changes in project scope which included the establishement of a
construction unit, and an enlargement of the scope fo the works for the teacher
training center and the MLC workshops, only about 50 MLCs will now be built.
Funds are nearly totally disbursed.
Credit No. 731-BU      Development Bank Project:  US$3.4 million
30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project aims at providing funds for investment in
medium size productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National
Economic Development Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started
slowly. Following, however, an amendment of the Credit Agreement of June 1980,
which allows the use of upto US$1 million for financing loans to small-scale
enterprises, project execution has accelerated. The newly established
Industrial Development Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial
projects is now fully staffed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 773-BU    Second Highway Project:  US$14.0 million of March 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project finances the paving. of a major nation road,
Bujumbura-Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement program for
selected secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the construction of a new
central laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and
the provision of technical assistance and equipmetn for the ongoing maintenance
program. Project implementation, in particular major road construction, was
delayed by the lack of cement and fuel supplies due to disruption in
international transport through neighbouring countries during the first half of
1979. Since then, works have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these
interruptions, and of higher than expected price increases, the project is
encountering high cost overruns. The improvement program for selected
secondary roads is proceeding satisfactorily. The construction of a new
central laboratory is nearly completed. The mechanized maintenance brigade is
fully operational and has received all the equipment financed under the
project. The technical assistance component is, in general, meeting its
objectives; however, difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and in
retaining them in service once trained have not made possible the reduction of
expatriate technical assistance as planned.
Credit No. 917-BU    Second Technical Ashsitance Project; TJSt2.5 million
of June 1, 197Q; Effectiveness Date: September 27, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the
Government's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation
capacity. It includes continuation of the technical assistance to
macroeconomic planning at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to
the planning divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and
financing of feasibility studies. The credit is also financing consultant
services to support the Government's effort in restructuring public
enterprises. Most of the experts have been recruited. Project implementation
is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU    Forestry Project:  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 milion
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 22, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the
first stage for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and
plantations to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish
long-term wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the
establishment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus
plantation and a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by
France) and financing of energy studies. The three expatriate technical
assistants (project manager, two silviculturists) are in post. The project is
progressing satisfactorily.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
redit No. 976-BU      Second Education Project:  US$15.0 million of April 23,
1980; Effectiveness Date:  July 21, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle
Level technicians and skilled workers in industrial trades and
secretarial-administrative skills. It includes the construction, furnishing
and equipping of two new boarding technical schools, a Mechanics Department and
a Typist and Bookkeeper Training Department in two existing schools and staff
h'ousing. The Credit became effective on July 21, 1980 and implementation is
?rogressing satisfactorily.
C''redit No. 1049-B    Urban Development Project:  US$15.0 million of June
24, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent
-'afrastructure deficiencies in Bujumbura neighbourhoods while laying the
j'oundation for more efficient future growth.  Essential improvements to street,
Irainage, water and public lighting networks will improve living conditions for
il8,000 persons in Bujumbura, or 85% of the population. Serviced plots and
A.oans for house construction will be made available to families between 15th
;-nd 65th income percentiles. An artisan promotion component will provide
:echnical and financial assistance to masons, carpenters, tailors, and
raetalworkers. An energy assistance program will improve the efficiency of
charcoal-burning metal stoves. A municipal services component will strengthen
-he capacity of the Bujumbura municipality to collect garbage and maintain
streets, drains and public buildings. Project start-up is progressing
siatisfactorily. Street and drainage improvements are underway in
the first upgrading neighbourhood and at the Kwijabe serviced site. Artisan
1rainer-promoters have begun providing assistance to carpenters and
ietalworkers. Households to receive serviced plots at Kwijabe will be selected
on November 1981; those chosen for the first phase of occupancy will begin
construction in early 1982.
C- ?dit No. 1058-BU    Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of August 7,
1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is a major component of the country's 1980-84
it-'restment program for telecommunications.  It aims at improving the quality of
e)-::sting services while extending the coverage to rural areas and segments of
the. population presently unserved. It would also strengthen the management of
telecommunications parastatal company (ONATEL) in order to establish the
company as a financially autonomous entity, and provide assistance for staff
training. The project became effective on January 7, 1981. ONATEL started
functioning in January 1980 and is developing satisfactorily. A delay of three
tc four months in the recruitment of consultants has delayed project
inD lementation correspondingly.



- 34 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURUNDI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/NGOZI III
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Identification:                      March 1978
Preparation:                         Government, with IDA's assistance
Appraisal Mission:                   July-August 1980
Negotiations:                        April/October  1981
Planned Date of Effectiveness:       February 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project:
The Government and the Association would exchange views at least
once a year on Government policies relating to coffee production
(para. 31).
The terms of reference, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment of the specialists and consultants
recruited under the Technical Assistance Program would be satisfact-
ory to the Association and the proposed contracts, including
terms of reference would be submitted to the Association for
its review and concurrence (para. 54 and 55).
The Association would be consulted on (a) the appointment of
key national staff of the RDC and (b) any changes to be made
in these appointments (para. 58).
A national technical committee would be set up by December 31,
1981 to define the technical operating norms of the washing stations
and handpulping centers and monitor the RDC's compliance with
them (para. 49).
The Government would ensure that the recurrent annual needs of
the RDC for fertilizers and pesticides are met, including subsidies
and provision of foreign exchange, as necessary (para 50).
Government contribution would be made available to the RDC on
a quarterly basis (para. 60).
The RDC would establish a compensation plan which would offer
adequate incentives to its staff (para. 58).



ANNEX III
- 35 -                             Page 2 of 2
Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA (para. 63).
Project expenditures would be made in accordance with Annual
Work Program and budgets which would be submitted to IDA for
approval (para. 56).
The Government would inform IDA sufficiently in advance of any
envisaged modifications in the composition of the Board of Directors
of the RDC (para. 57).
Construction works would be carried out by force account (para.
61).
Additional Conditions of Effectiveness
Recruitment of key technical assistants and Burundian staff (paras.
55 and 58).
Establishment of the RDC with statutes satisfactory
to IDA (para. 56).
Signature of a prefinancing agreement between the RDC and CAMOFI
guaranteed by the Government (para. 60).
Submission of an annual Work Program for the period of September
1981 to December 1982 (para. 56).
Deposit by the Government of the first quarterly installment
in the RDC's bank account (para. 60).
Audit of the Ngozi II Project Accounts (para. 63).
Conditions precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan and
to the initial disbursement under the Kuwait Fund loan have been fulfilled.
Conditions of disbursement
Approval of the Work Program and Budget of any given year would
be a condition of disbursement against activities for that year
(para. 56).






P,0JECT AREA -- NOOZI PROVINCE I                      NATIONAL HOADS!t30                                                                      B URU NDI
ZONE Du PRojPT  WOO?!I PRO0VINEW                      ROUTES NATI5ONALE$
A   COMMUJNAL OFFICE! I                                     MAIN ROADS!           I                            INTEGRATED  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-NGOZI III
BUREAU DR COMMUNE                                     ROUTES PRtNC,PALES
*     EXISTING COFFEE WASHING STATIONS!I----   SECONDARY RtOADS /                                            PROJUT  DE  DEVELOPPE/WENT RURAL  INTEGRE-NGOZI Iff
USIPPES OE CAFE EXISTANTES                            ROUTES SeCONDAINES 
.....PROJECT AREA OF lIf ST COFFEE PROJECT               PROVINCIAL CAPITAL                                                     PROJECT AREA/ZONE  DU  PRO.E 
ICR. 147-BUllI ZONE DU PREMIER PRO)ET                 PTAPFTALE 0E PROVINCE
CAFE iCR. 147-BU)                                                                             .hT   soz
- COMMUNAL BOUNDARIES /COUFIS DLEAUX
4/IMI TES COMWMUA LES                                                                                                     KLMTR
-- PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES / 
LfAIMI PS PROVIINCIALES                To Krgss!                           4                    k
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES/                                   BRUmIN1 
FHRONYEREE              RWAND                                                         1Z)Fabj,~
asEile                        ~~TANZANIA
JENE   AA ihiMWUg6
-~~~~'BU   GA A'' ~ ~ ~ ~ MUe.A               MusongINK
NGIZ
r1 '..                        KAA          A~ZN'~a                             OI      0HKN          ATANGARA ,
3.                                  AR                                                                   ORugaz~~~OIOO                                                                  A~or u
HOMSO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wood Ranks staff eaclustue a, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      .  .-
SIte hOO venteoce Of the ,eader. ~~~    ~          ~         'Ru
the report to whet ,, to attanfled ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Liig
The dttnonooat,ant used and toe  /                                                            Murumbop>             ,.-           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0'30
Atsdresso, onTON Bsgnyaz
do not ,mpip on the part itt the  .                                                                                  ,          /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KARZIv,A   O
World Rank and 'to sff,Pates. ann ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     MLse
lTlhl                                                                                                                                     Mu G tumbap    pt
2    o Riqromp        MU MRAMVYA                       /T   ruo                         30~    r0G--n3                    ly I



