Report No. PIC5468
Project Name                   Paraguay-Fourth Rural Water Supply and (+)
Sanitation Project
Region                         Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                         Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                     PYPA39983
Borrower                       Republic of Paraguay
Implementing agency            Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento
Ambiental (SENASA) Mcal.
Estigarribia 796 y Tacuary
Asuncion, Paraguay
Ing. Genaro Cristaldo, Director
Phone: 595-21-494-399
Fax: 595-21-493-995
Date this PID prepared         March 12, 1997
Project appraisal date         June 23, 1997
Project Board date             Dec. 16, 1997
Country and Sector Background: The 1996 population estimate for
Paraguay was 4.7 million people, with 60t of the population living
in urban centers of less than 4,000 inhabitants. Paraguay is
characterized by low coverage in basic water and sewerage services,
which have failed to keep pace with the country's development. In
addition, the levels of service vary greatly between urban and
rural populations. Only about 60t of the urban and 20t of the rural
population have piped water, one of the lowest in Latin America,
where the average is 81t for urban and 39t for rural area,
respectively coverage of sewerage services in Paraguay is behind
that of water supply.
The main Government agency overseeing the water and sanitation
sector in the rural areas of Paraguay (communities of initial size
of less than 4,000 inhabitants) is the National Environmental
Sanitation Services Agency (SENASA), created under the Ministry of
Public Health in 1972. CORPOSANA, the Corporation for Sanitary
Works created under the Ministry of Interior, implements and
administers the provision of public water supply and sewerage in
urban centers of more than 4,000 people.
SENASA plans its activities from Asuncion, but with a highly
decentralized implementation. SENASA's strategy is based on the
formation of users' associations (Juntas de Saneamiento), following
a well-established legal arrangement initiated since the first Bank
operation in 1977 (Paraguay Rural Water Supply Project; Loan 1502-
PA). SENASA's role is to: (i) identify and help in the
establishment of the Juntas through field work; (ii) emphasize
community participation; and (iii) create a community system with
partial capital cost recovery, with full coverage of operation and
maintenance costs by users. The actual construction of water supply



systems is carried out by SENASA (that contract services as
necessary) and the Juntas with technical assistance and financing
provided by SENASA.
Project Objectives: The two main objectives of the proposed loan
are to: (i) increase the access of rural communities to water
supply and sanitation, expanding services from 20t to 35t of the
population at the end of the project; and (ii) establish SENASA as
an efficiently managed promoter of water supply and sanitation activities.
Project Description:     In order to meet the objectives of the
project, this loan will include the following: (i) provision of
water supply and on-site sanitation services to 350 communities,
expansion of 80 existing water supply systems, and construction of
50 new systems for indigenous and dispersed communities; (ii)
construction of sewerage systems in 20 rural communities; (iii)
institutional strengthening of SENASA for project implementation
and training of personnel; (iv) creation of associations of Juntas
for interchange of experience and self-help; (v) pilot project for
the promotion of the role of the private operators (aguaterias);
and (vi) preparation of a national Program for rural water supply
and sanitation.
Project Financing:       The total project cost is estimated to be
US$85 million, of which US$40 million will be financed by IBRD,
US$20 million by cofinancers still to be defined and US$15 million
by the users themselves.
Project Implementation: SENASA is responsible for water and
sanitation services in rural areas. SENASA, from the initial three
Bank-financed Rural Water Supply Projects (1977, 1982 and 1992),
has been reinforced, expanded and reorganized to also be in charge
of preparing and implementing the fourth project. The project will
be implemented through the creation of the Juntas within the
community, which will follow a standard pattern delineated by
SENASA in the Rules and Regulations for Juntas. SENASA's strategy
for the implementation of the rural water projects is as follows:
(i) identification of a communities; (ii) promotion and field work
within a community that has requested such activities; (iii)
preparation of the project when the community reacts favorably to
the previous two steps; (iv) motivation and organization for full
community participation once studies and designs are available; (v)
construction of the project through private contractors after a
contract between SENASA and Junta has been signed; and (vi)
operation and maintenance of the system by the Junta.
Project Sustainability: Systems implemented under the previous
loans have continued to function and grow. Some juntas which have
been operating these systems for over two decades have grown to
entities of up to 25 staff (in one case with about 5000
connections). Community involvement through the Juntas is expected
to continue, and therefore help assure sustainability. However,
since new actors are going to be involved (NGOs and private sector
providers in particular), SENASA will have to exert adequate
quality control.
-2-



Lessons Learned:         The following lessons learned are reflected in
the project design, the need to: (i) strengthen SENASA's strategy
to further develop community water and sanitation projects; (ii)
provide a coherent framework between donors; (iii) execute water
systems within a well-defined time table and financed program; (iv)
provide technical assistance to new and weak Juntas; and (v)
decentralize and strengthen SENASA's activities.
Poverty Category: The project has a direct impact on Poverty Alleviation.
Environmental Aspects: The loan will mainly finance water supply
projects and a limited number of sewerage projects. Although no
negative impact is expected from the water supply systems, the
project has been rated B because of the potential limited impact
that the discharge of treated sewage may have in some cases. During
preparation, an environmental screening procedure will be developed.
Program Objectives Categories: In addition to Poverty
Alleviation, the project also seeks to improve basic water sector
management and support community sector development and
environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 8, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Impact on the Environment
The project will finance rural water supply systems consisting of
wells, elevated reservoirs and distribution networks in dispersed
communities ranging from 500 to 1500 inhabitants. In addition, the
project will also finance the construction of sewerage system in 10
communities to eliminate open air discharges of wastes in the
(dense) core areas of relatively large rural communities. The
project will also include the construction of on-site systems for
about 21,000 households to replace the mostly inadequate systems
currently in use.
No major environmental issues are identified. Although the
wastewater treatment plants are expected to be small, serving
populations of less than a couple of thousands of inhabitants,
their location may face resistance from local residents and the
effluents may have minor localized impact on the receiving water
body. To mitigate these minor impacts a sectoral environmental
assessment plan has been prepared which includes screening criteria
and procedures for all sewerage projects and guidelines for
locating, design and construction of the wastewater treatment plants.
- 4 -



