Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF029590
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated September 29, 1996
GRANT NUMBER TF029590
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
provided by JAPAN (Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement; and
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) and (20), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term “Bank,” wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term in 
Page  3
Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term “Borrower,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term “Loan Agreement,” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term “Loan,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term “Loan Account,” wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term “Project,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
“Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Dollars; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.”; and
(viii)
Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following  additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BCP” means Banco
Central
del
Paraguay
 (the Recipient’s Central Bank);
Page  4
(b)
“Dollars” and “$” means the currency of the United States of America;
(c)
“Decree No. 8910” means Decreto
No. 8910 of the Recipient dated September 
10, 1974 which regulates the creation and functions of the Juntas
,
as such Decree has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)
“Junta
”
means any of the Juntas
de
Saneamiento
established in accordance with 
Law No. 369/72  and Decree No. 8910; 
(e)
“Law No. 369/72” means Ley
No. 369/72 of the Recipient dated December 1, 
1972, as such Law  has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(f)
“SENASA” means the Recipient’s National Environmental Service  (Servicio
Nacional
de
Saneamiento
Ambiental)
  established by Law No. 369/72; and 
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of eight hundred 
thousand Dollars  ($800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish.  The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Director of SENASA (or such other person or persons as such Director 
shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of  Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Recipient, through SENASA, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, 
engineering, public utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient, through SENASA, shall maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient, through SENASA, shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including SENASA’s financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) and those for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator; 
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of SENASA’s financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient, through SENASA, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account, or payment out of the Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
Page  6
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SENASA or for the suspension of its operations.
(b)
Law No. 369/72 or Decree No. 8910 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 5.02.
This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Minister of 
Finance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile 128
Asunción, Paraguay
Cable address:
Telex:
Ministerio de Hacienda
 44329
Asunción, Paraguay
With copies to:
SENASA
Mariscal Estigarribia esq.
Tacuary
Asunción, Paraguay
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
Page  8
By /s/ Carlos Facetti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
66,500
100% of foreign expenditures; 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost); 80% of 
other items procured locally
(2)
Consultants’ services
635,500
100%
(3)
Operational costs
98,000
100%
TOTAL
800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: (a) “Goods” means vehicles, office 
equipment and computer hardware and software; and (b) “Operational Costs” means 
expenditures incurred during the carrying out of the Project in connection with secretarial 
services, office rent, maintenance and utilities, office supplies and transportation and per diem of 
SENASA’s personnel.
Page  9
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a)  contracts for goods; and (b) 
Operational Costs as set forth in Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance consists of the following activities to be carried out by the 
Recipient, through SENASA, in connection with the preparation of the proposed Fourth Rural 
Water Supply and Sanitation Project: 
1.
Identification of rural communities to be benefited by the proposed Fourth Rural Water 
Supply and Sanitation Project, including the gathering of information with respect of such 
communities (such as: household composition and socio-economic data of the household).
2.
Improvement of the technical capabilities of SENASA and the Juntas
(to be selected by 
the Recipient) in the areas of project design, construction supervision and operation and 
maintenance.
3.
Design of: (a) general guidelines to be applied to any of SENASA’s financial programs; 
and (b) a planning and monitoring system to be used by SENASA in assisting the Recipient in 
the carrying out of the proposed Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
4.
Design and implementation of a technical assistance program which consists, inter alia, 
of  entering into twinning arrangements between existing Juntas
and Juntas
to be established for 
purpose of participating in the proposed Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. 
5.
Design and implementation of a demonstration program for the provision of water and 
sanitation services to the low-income rural settlements, including indigenous population which 
consists, inter alia, of: (a) carrying out of studies on existing and previous experiences with 
respect to lower-cost rural water and sanitation solutions; (b) designing and implementing a 
strategy to implement the program mentioned herein; and (c) the provision of training to 
SENASA’s personnel in order to assist the Recipient in the implementation of  the program 
mentioned herein.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
Page  10
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded under Part B of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall 
have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued 
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern 
all procurement of consultants’ services referred to in this Section:
(i)
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the 
selection process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement 
with local consultants.
(ii)
Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list 
on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(iii)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to notarize their proposals or 
any documentation related to such proposals with Paraguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
(iv)
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
Page  12
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to  the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  13
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
