Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4223-PA
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 27, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4223-PA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) By an agreement of even date herewith (the CP-Loan Agreement) the 
Bank is providing a loan in various currencies that shall have an aggregate value 
equivalent to the amount of twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000); 
(B)
The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
Page  2
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Association of Juntas" means a legal entity comprised of a group of 
Juntas duly established in the Borrower’s territory; 
(b)
"BCP" means the Borrower’s central bank (Banco Central del Paraguay);  
(c)
"Contrato" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(d)
"Decree No. 8910" means Decreto No. 8910 of the Borrower dated September 
10, 1974 which regulates the creation and the functioning of the Juntas, as such 
Decree has been amended to the date of this Agreement;  
(e)
"Eligible Junta" means a Junta which meets the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) to benefit from a Water Supply Subproject 
or a Wastewater Disposal Subproject (both as hereinafter defined); 
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of 
even date herewith setting forth the indicators and targets to be used in the 
monitoring of the progress of the Project and the achievement of its objectives, as 
such indicators and targets may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank;
(g)
"Junta" means a Junta de Saneamiento (Sanitation Boards) established as a 
legal entity in accordance with Decree No. 8910; 
(h)
"Law No. 369/72" means Ley No. 369/72 of the Borrower dated December 1, 
1972 which created SENASA (as hereinafter defined), as such Law has been amended to 
the date of this Agreement; 
(i)
"MAG" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (Ministerio de 
Agricultura y Ganadería) of the Borrower;
(j)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, acceptable to the Bank, to be 
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, which sets 
forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for approving Wastewater Disposal 
Subprojects and Water Supply Subprojects; (ii) the eligibility criteria for selecting 
Eligible  Juntas; (iii) the terms and conditions of a format Contrato; and (iv) the 
contents of the indigenous people development plan, as such manual may be amended with 
the agreement of the Bank; 
(k)
"Pilot Subproject" means  a specific project, which meets the eligibility 
criteria referred to in paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, consisting of 
the construction of water supply systems by the Borrower, through SENASA, in rural 
areas; 
Page  3
(l)
"SENASA" means the National Environmental Sanitation Service (Servicio 
Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental), established within the jurisdiction of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of  Public Health and Social Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Pública 
y Bienestar Social) pursuant to Law No. 369/72;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
"Users" means the population benefited with the services resulting from 
the carrying out of Wastewater Disposal Subprojects and Water Supply Subprojects; 
(o)
"Wastewater Disposal Subproject" means any subproject under Part B of the 
Project; and 
(p)
"Water Supply Subproject" means any subproject under Part A of the 
Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million Dollars ($20,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR  Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
Page  4
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable March 15 and September 
15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08. The Director of SENASA (or any other person or persons as such 
Director shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Parts A and B of  the Project through SENASA, with the participation of the 
Eligible Juntas (as provided in paragraph (b) below); (ii) Parts C.1, C.2 (a) and (b), 
C.3 through C.5 and D (i), (iii) and (iv) of the Project through SENASA; (iii) Part 
C.2 (c) of the Project through SENASA with the participation of the private sector; 
and (iv) Part D (ii) of the Project through SENASA with the participation of MAG, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, public utility and environmental practices, and the provisions 
of the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (i) above and for 
the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower, through 
SENASA, shall enter into an agreement (the Contrato) with each Eligible Junta under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
(c)
(i) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall exercise its rights and comply 
with its obligations under each Contrato in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall not 
assign, amend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any Contrato or any provision 
thereof. Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a)
prepare, on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower, through SENASA and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower, through SENASA, on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) not later than April 30, 
1998 prepare and furnish to the Bank a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
Page  5
restructure the Water and Sanitation Directorate of SENASA; (b) not later than July 
31, 1998, restructure the Water and Sanitation Directorate of SENASA in accordance 
with the terms of the proposal mentioned in (a) herein; and (c) thereafter maintain 
during Project implementation the Water and Sanitation Directorate of SENASA in 
accordance with the terms of the proposal mentioned in (a) herein.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) not later than August 31, 
1998 furnish to the Bank, for its review the recommendations of the studies referred 
to in Part C.2 (a) and (b) of the Project (which shall include a time schedule for 
their implementation); and (b) immediately thereafter implement the recommendations of 
such studies taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon, if any, in accordance 
with such time schedule.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall continue to employ during 
Project implementation a financial institution, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist 
the Borrower, through  SENASA, in the management of its loan portfolio with the 
Juntas.  
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall not later than April 30, 1998 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, a plan satisfactory to the Bank, to improve its loan 
collection performance with the Juntas. 
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall not later than July 30, 
1998 complete the design of the plan mentioned in Part C.4 of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (i) not later than July 31 of each 
year until the completion of the Project, starting in 1999, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank an updated version of the plan mentioned in (a) above in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) immediately thereafter implement such 
updated plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.   
Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall not later than thirty days 
after the conclusion of each calendar semester during the implementation of the 
Project, starting in 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to: (a) the progress 
made by the Borrower, through SENASA, in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of such report; and (b) the 
Project activities to be carried out during the calendar semester following the date 
of presentation of such report.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall not later than thirty six 
months after the Effective Date review jointly with the Bank the progress made by the 
Borrower, through SENASA, in: (a) carrying out the Project; and (b) achieving the 
objectives of the Project, based on the indicators and the corresponding reports 
referred to in Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of this Agreement, respectively.  As part of 
such review the Bank may require the Borrower, through SENASA, to prepare an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  In 
such event, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall not later than forty five days after 
the conclusion of such review furnish such action plan to the Bank and shall 
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 3.12. In the event that the environmental analysis to be carried out 
under each Wastewater Disposal Subproject (as referred to in Part D (ii) of the 
Project) identifies a potential negative environmental impact from a particular 
Wastewater Disposal Subproject, the Borrower, through SENASA, shall prior to the 
commencement of any works under such Wastewater Disposal Subproject, take the 
necessary actions to remedy such environmental impact, as recommended by such 
analysis.
Section 3.13. The Borrower, through SENASA, shall: (a) not later than April 30, 
1998 prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan (including a timetable to implement such 
plan), satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the actions to be undertaken by the 
Borrower, through SENASA, in connection with promoting the establishment of 
Associations of Juntas; and (b) immediately thereafter commence the implementation of 
Page  6
such plan in accordance with such timetable. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b) 
The Borrower, through SENASA, shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including: (A) SENASA’s financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements); 
and (B) those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
SENASA, shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, through SENASA, pursuant to the provisions of each 
Contrato shall audit, once a year the accounts and other financial records and 
statements of the corresponding Junta, such audit to be of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower, through SENASA, pursuant to the provisions of 
each Contrato shall take or cause the corresponding Junta to take, all necessary steps 
to set the tariffs for water supply and sanitation and connection charges to be 
charged by such Junta to the Users in accordance with the provisions of the 
corresponding Contrato.
(b)
The Borrower, through SENASA, pursuant to the provisions of each Contrato 
shall: (i) review with the corresponding Junta, at least once a year, the level of 
tariffs referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (ii) promptly after the conclusion of 
such review, if required, cause such Junta to undertake the necessary adjustments in 
the level of tariffs.
ARTICLE V 
Page  7
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SENASA will be able to assist the Borrower in performing its obligations under 
this Agreement.
(b)
That Law No. 369/72 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of SENASA to assist the Borrower in 
the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
That Decree No. 8910 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Bank,  the ability of the Eligible Juntas to participate 
in the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
(d)
That the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SENASA or for the 
suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower. 
(b)
That all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CP-Loan 
Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date January 26, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile 128
Asuncion, Paraguay
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministerio de Hacienda
44329
Asunción, Paraguay
With copies to:
SENASA
Mariscal Estigarribia esq.
Tacuary
Page  8
Asunción, Paraguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Jorge G. Prieto 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Part A of 
)
the Project
7,050,000
)     85%
)
(b) under Part B of 
)
the Project
2,500,000
)
)
(c) under Part C.2
)
(c) of the Project  150,000
)
)
(d) under Part C.5
)
 of the Project
   50,000
)
(2)
Goods
(a) under Part A of
the Project
5,400,000
)     100% of foreign
)     expenditures and 
(b) under Parts 
1,200,000
)     90% of local
Page  9
C.1 and C.5 of the
)     expenditures
Project
)
)
(c) under Part C.2   50,000
)
(c) of the Project
)
)
(d) under Part C.3   50,000
)
(b) of the Project
)
(3)
Consultants' services
(a) under Parts     2,950,000
)     100%
C.1, C.2 (a) and 
)
(b), C.3 (a), C.4
)
and D of the Project
)
)
(b) under Part C.3    100,000
)
(b) of the Project
)
(4)
Training:
(a) under Parts C.1   400,000
)    100%
and C.3 (a) of the
)
Project
)
)
(b) under Part C.3    100,000
)
(b) of the Project
)
TOTAL
       20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, through SENASA, in connection with the provision 
of training under the Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Water Supply 
Subproject unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has: (i) approved the corresponding 
subproject in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and (ii) signed a Contrato with the corresponding Eligible Junta;
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Wastewater Disposal Subproject 
unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has: (i) approved the corresponding subproject in 
accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) signed a Contrato with the corresponding Eligible Junta;
(d)
 payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Pilot Subproject 
unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has selected and approved such subproject in 
accordance with the criteria referred to in Part C.2 (a) of the Project; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (d), (3) (b) and (4) 
(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule with respect to each Association of  
Juntas unless such Association of Juntas has been established in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank.
Page  10
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) Training as set forth in 
Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the coverage of water supply 
and sanitation and sewerage services in the rural areas within the Borrower’s 
territory; and (b) strengthen SENASA’s institutional capacity to assist the Borrower 
in achieving the objective mentioned in (a) herein.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply 
Carrying out of subprojects consisting of: (i) the construction of  about 330 
water supply systems for the benefit of about 310,000 inhabitants living in rural 
communities; or (ii) the expansion of the production, storage and distribution 
capacity of about 10 existing water supply systems for the benefit of 14,000 
inhabitants living in rural communities; or (iii) the construction of about 35 water 
supply systems in the Department of El Chaco for the benefit of the indigenous 
population living in such Department.
Part B:
Wastewater Disposal
Carrying out of subprojects consisting of: (i) the construction of about 10 
sewerage systems for the benefit of 40,000 inhabitants living in rural communities; or 
(ii) the construction and distribution of concrete slabs for on-site sanitation 
systems for the benefit of about 21,500 families living in rural communities.
Part C:
Institutional Development 
1. 
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance and training and 
the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor, of SENASA’s and the 
Eligible Juntas’ capacity to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts A and B 
of the Project.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) a study to establish the criteria for the participation of 
the private sector in the provision of water in the Borrower’s rural areas; (b) a 
study to recommend possible incentives for the participation of the private sector in 
the provision of water in the Borrower’s rural areas; and (c) about 5 Pilot 
Subprojects. 
3.
(a) Provision of technical assistance and training to Eligible  Juntas to assist 
such Eligible Juntas in the establishment of Associations of Juntas; and 
(b) strengthening of the institutional capacity of Associations of Juntas 
through the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and 
utilization of equipment required therefor. 
4.
Design and implementation of a five year national investment plan for rural 
water supply and sanitation. 
5.
Improvement of the physical condition of SENASA’s headquarters and regional 
offices.
Part D:
Project Administration
Provision of technical assistance to SENASA in the carrying out of: (i) the 
engineering designs of Water Supply Subprojects and Wastewater Disposal Subprojects; 
(ii) the environmental analyses of Wastewater Disposal Subprojects; (iii) the 
promotional campaigns concerning the Project activities; and (iv) the supervision, 
administration and monitoring of the Project. 
Page  11
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
March 15, 2002
515,000 
September 15, 2002
530,000
March 15, 2003
550,000 
September 15, 2003
565,000
March 15, 2004
580,000 
September 15, 2004
600,000
March 15, 2005
620,000 
September 15, 2005
635,000
March 15, 2006
655,000 
September 15, 2006
675,000
March 15, 2007
695,000 
September 15, 2007
715,000
March 15, 2008
740,000 
September 15, 2008
760,000
March 15, 2009
785,000 
September 15, 2009
810,000
March 15, 2010
835,000 
September 15, 2010
860,000
March 15, 2011
885,000 
September 15, 2011
910,000
March 15, 2012
940,000 
September 15, 2012
965,000
March 15, 2013
995,000 
September 15, 2013
    1,025,000
March 15, 2014
    1,060,000 
September 15, 2014
    1,095,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each and $2,000,000 equivalent 
or more each, respectively. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
Page  12
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more but less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,450,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
All procurement of goods and works to be awarded under this Part C.1 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
comments in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works to be awarded under Parts B 
and C.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for activities under Parts C.1, C.2 (a), 
C.3, C.4 and D of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the activities under Parts C.1, C.2 (a), C.3, C.4 and D of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the activities under Parts C.1, C.2 (a), C.3, C.4 and D of the 
Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less but more than $20,000 
equivalent the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less, the terms of reference of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Special Provisions 
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section 
I of this Schedule. The principle and rule of procurement referred to in paragraph 5 
below also governs all procurement of goods and works under  Part B.1 of Section I of 
this Schedule.
1.
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
2.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
Page  14
3.
Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for bidding to be registered 
with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to be requested  to 
such bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation.
4.
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded.
5.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to authenticate (notarizar) their bidding 
documents or any documentation related to such bidding documents with Paraguayan 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all selection of consultants' services referred to 
in Section II of this Schedule.
1.
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to authenticate (notarizar) their 
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with Paraguayan authorities 
as a prerequisite for participating in the selection procedure.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the 
Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for  the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit  into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
Page  15
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence  showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories  shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
