Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4222-PA
CP-Loan Agreement
(Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 27, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4222-PA 
CP-LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is providing a single currency loan in a principal 
amount equal to twenty million Dollars (the Loan) to assist in the financing of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement;  
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of such Project has requested the Bank to provide additional assistance in the 
financing of said Project through the provision of a currency pool loan (the CP-Loan); 
and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the CP-Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this CP- 
Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations.".
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
(e)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
this CP-Loan Agreement; 
(f)
the term "Loan" and "loans", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the CP-Loan; and
(g)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the CP-Loan Account. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in paragraphs (a) 
through  (l) and (n) through (p) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the 
following meaning, namely, that "CP-Special Account" means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this CP-Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the CP-Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the CP-Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the CP-Loan may be withdrawn from the CP- Loan 
Page  3
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to the Loan Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the CP-Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in BCP on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of CP-Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
CP-Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
CP-Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.  
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section  2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank’s investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section. 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the 
CP-Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period.".
"(b) 
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter.". 
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.". 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the CP-Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.08.  The Director of SENASA (or any other person or persons as such 
Director shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project and Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.08, 3.09, 
3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of, and Schedules 2 and 4 to, the Loan 
Agreement constitute an integral part of this CP-Loan Agreement, with the following 
modifications, unless the context otherwise requires:  
(a)
the term "Loan" shall be read as "CP-Loan"; 
(b)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as the "CP-Loan Agreement"; 
(c)
the term "Special Account" shall be read as "CP-Special Account"; and 
(d)
the term "Loan Account" shall be read as "CP-Loan Account". 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events referred to in 
Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement shall occur. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the CP-Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to this CP-Loan 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date January 26, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.03. If the Loan Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
CP-Loan Agreement, the provisions of the Loan Agreement incorporated by reference in 
this CP-Loan Agreement shall continue in full force and effect for purposes of this 
CP-Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI  
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile 128
Asunción, Paraguay
Page  5
Cable address: 
Telex:
Ministerio de Hacienda
44329
Asunción, Paraguay
With copies to:
SENASA
Mariscal Estigarribia esq.
Tacuary
Asunción, Paraguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Jorge G. Prieto 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the CP-Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the CP-Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the CP-Loan to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
CP-Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Part A of 
the Project
7,050,000
)     85%
)
(b) under Part B of
the Project
2,500,000
)
)
(c) under Part C.2 (c)
  150,000
)
of the Project
)
Page  6
)
(d) under Part C.5 of
   50,000
)
the Project
)
(2)
Goods
(a) under Part A of 
the Project
5,400,000
)     100% of foreign
)      expenditures
(b) under Parts C.1
1,200,000
)      90% of local
and C.5 of the Project
)      expenditures
) 
(c) under Part C.2 (c)
   50,000
)
of the Project
)
)
(d) under Part C.3 (b)     50,000 )
of the Project
)
(3)
Consultants' services
(a) under Parts C.1,
2,950,000
)     100%
C.2 (a) and (b), C.3
)
(a), C.4 and D of the
)
Project
)
)
(b) under Part C.3 (b)
  100,000
)
of the Project
)
(4)
Training:
(a) under Parts C.1
  400,000
)     100%
and C.3 (a) of the Project
)
)
(b) under Part C.3 (b)
   100,000
)
of the Project
)
___________
TOTAL
20,000,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower, through SENASA, in connection with the provision 
of training under the Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Water Supply 
Subproject unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has: (i) approved the corresponding 
subproject in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and (ii) signed a Contrato with the corresponding Eligible Junta;
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Wastewater Disposal Subproject 
unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has: (i) approved the corresponding subproject in 
accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) signed a Contrato with the corresponding Eligible Junta;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c) and (2) (c) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Pilot Subproject 
Page  7
unless the Borrower, through SENASA, has selected and approved such subproject in 
accordance with the criteria referred to in Part C.2 (a) of the Project; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) (d), (3) (b) and (4) 
(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule with respect to each Association of 
Juntas unless such Association of Juntas has been established in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the CP-Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) Training as set 
forth in Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
March 1, 2002
500,000 
September 1, 2002
515,000
March 1, 2003
535,000 
September 1, 2003
550,000
March 1, 2004
570,000 
September 1, 2004
585,000
March 1, 2005
605,000 
September 1, 2005
625,000
March 1, 2006
645,000 
September 1, 2006
670,000
March 1, 2007
690,000 
September 1, 2007
710,000
March 1, 2008
735,000 
September 1, 2008
760,000
March 1, 2009
785,000 
September 1, 2009
810,000
March 1, 2010
835,000 
September 1, 2010
865,000
March 1, 2011
890,000 
September 1, 2011
920,000
March 1, 2012
950,000 
September 1, 2012
980,000
March 1, 2013
          1,015,000
September 1, 2013
          1,050,000
March 1, 2014
    1,080,000
September 1, 2014
    1,125,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of 
the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the CP-Loan to be prepaid shall be the 
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the CP-Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35 
Page  8
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65 
not more than eleven years 
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88 
more than fifteen years 
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00 
maturity
SCHEDULE 3 
CP-Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the 
Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the CP-Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the CP-Loan Account and deposited into the CP-Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the CP-Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the CP-Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the CP-Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the CP-Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit  into the CP-Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the CP-Loan Account and deposit into the CP-Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the CP-Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the CP-Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the CP-Loan Account and deposit into the 
CP-Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the CP-Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the CP-Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CP-Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
Page  9
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the CP-Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the CP-Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect 
of the audit of the records and accounts for the CP-Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the CP-Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the CP-Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the CP-Special Account for  the Project, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the CP-Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the CP-Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the CP-Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
CP-Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
CP-Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the CP-Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the CP-Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the CP-Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the CP-Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
