                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No. ICR0000253




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD 42220 IBRD 42230)


                                 ON LOANS


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.0 MILLION


                                   TO THE


                           PARAGUAY REPUBLIC

                                  FOR THE

       FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT



                               December 21, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2007)
            Currency Unit = Paraguay Guaranies (PY$)
                      PY$ 1.00 = 0.0002
                     USD 1.00 = PY$ 5.135

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DIGESA     General Directorate of Environmental Health (Dirección General
           de Salud Ambiental)
ERSSAN     Sanitary Services Regulation Agency (Ente Regulador de
           Servicios Sanitarios)
ESSAP      Sanitary Services Company of Paraguay (Empresa de Servicios
           Sanitarios del Paraguay S.A.)
FY         Fiscal Year
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
SENASA     National Environmental Health Service (Servicio Nacional de
           Saneamiento Ambiental)
STP        Technical Planning Secretariat (Secretaría Técnica de
           Planificación)




                Vice President: Pamela Cox

             Country Director: Pedro Alba

              Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein

          Project Team Leader: María Angélica Sotomayor

          ICR Primary Author: Bernardo Gómez

                                           PARAGUAY
      FOURTH RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS



Data Sheet
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 25

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 26
Annex 2 Outputs by Components..................................................................................... 27
Annex 3 Economic Analysis............................................................................................ 38
Annex 4 Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................... 41
Annex 5 Beneficiary Survey Results................................................................................ 43
Annex 6 Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results........................................................ 44
Annex 7 Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR.............................. 46
Annex 8 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................ 54
Annex 9 List of Supporting Documentation..................................................................... 55
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    4th RURAL WATER
Country:                Paraguay              Project Name:         SUPPLY &
                                                                    SANITATION
                                                                    IBRD-42220,IBRD-
Project ID:             P039983               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    42230
ICR Date:               12/21/2007            ICR Type:             Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                    GOVT. OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    PARAGUAY
Original Total
                        USD 40.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 40.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
SENASA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/21/1997    Effectiveness:       09/11/1998         09/11/1998
Appraisal:             06/22/1997    Restructuring(s):                       10/28/2004
Approval:              08/28/1997    Mid-term Review:                        09/15/2001
                                     Closing:             12/31/2003         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                           Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                9                27
Sewerage                                                        22                11
Sub-national government administration                           1
Water supply                                                    68                62


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                               Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary          Primary
Rural policies and institutions                                Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Pedro Alba                       Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                 Mamundi G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Project Team Leader:       Maria Angelica Sotomayor Araujo Luis V. Chang
ICR Team Leader:           Maria Angelica Sotomayor Araujo
ICR Primary Author:        Bernardo Gomez



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1) Increase the access of rural communities to water supply and sanitation.




                                              ii

  2) Establish SENASA as an efficiently managed promoter of water supply and
sanitation activities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of SENASA's staff per system constructed per year decreased.
Value
quantitative or 6.0                         3.1                                  4.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/1997                    12/31/2003                           06/30/2007

Comments        The causal linkage between this indicator and the PDO is not evident. As the

(incl. %        PAD fails to elaborate on this linkage, it is difficult to explain the impact on the

achievement)    PDO of not achieving this target. There is evidence of progress based on other
                achievements.

Indicator 2 :   Coverage of water and sanitation increased from 20% to 30% in the project
                areas.
Value
quantitative or 20%                         30%                                  28.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/1997                    12/31/2003                           06/30/2007
Comments        Comments (including % achievement): Calculations of the total beneficiaries of
(incl. %        the project, indicated that the project contributed to an increase in rural water
achievement)    coverage of 8.5%.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised         Completion or
                                                documents)      Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   330 new water systems operational in rural areas.
Value
(quantitative                               330                                  496
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/31/2003                           06/30/2007
Comments        145%. However, as the communities served by the systems built are smaller that
(incl. %        estimated at appraisal. The population served was 15% below appraisal
achievement)    estimate.
Indicator 2 :   10 existing water supply systems expanded and in service.
Value                                       10                                   7



                                                 iii

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003                          06/30/2007
Comments       70%. There was not sufficient demand for this project component. The resources
(incl. %       not used in this activity were shifted to the construction of new systems in both
achievement)   the Easter and the Chaco regions.
Indicator 3 :  35 new water supply sytems operational in indigenous communities.
Value
(quantitative                             35                                  92
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       260%. This overachievement was made possible by the shift of financial

achievement)   resources from other project components.

Indicator 4 :  10 new sewerage systems operational.
Value
(quantitative                             10                  3               3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003          12/15/2003      06/30/2007
Comments       30%. There was insufficient demand for this project component. The resources
(incl. %       not used in this component were shifted to the construction of new systems in
achievement)   both the Eastern and the Chaco regions.
Indicator 5 :  21,500 Latrines.
Value
(quantitative                             21,500                              23,250
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       108%. The additionald 8% (1,750 latrines) were built in the Chaco Region.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Association of juntas functioning in the departments where the project is active.
Value
(quantitative                              5                                  8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       There are two association in one of the departments.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Private firms providing water services in 5 communities.
Value
(quantitative                              5                                  6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                             12/31/2003                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       120%. One firm provides services to several communities. There are 2 multi-

achievement)   village schemes under oparation of private firms.

Indicator 8 :  SENASA changed from services provider to planner and regulator of services.
Value


                                               iv

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %       Government established an independent regulator for both the urban and rural

achievement)   water supply and sanitation subsectors making this target irrelevant.

Indicator 9 :  Long-term strategy developed to increase service coverage in rural areas.
Value
(quantitative                              A report discussed               Achieved
or Qualitative)                           with the Bank.

Date achieved                             12/31/2003                        12/31/2001
Comments
(incl. %       The government issued a decree establishing uniform financial terms and

achievement)   conditions for rural water supply systems.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     03/12/1998          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     07/06/1998          Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  3     02/01/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     04/21/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  5     12/21/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.50
  6     06/29/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     2.81
  7     12/12/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.25
  8     05/31/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     4.85
  9     10/19/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     5.83
  10    05/31/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.11
  11    06/26/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.11
  12    11/27/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     9.29
  13    05/29/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    10.59
  14    06/25/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    11.10
  15    12/05/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    13.28
  16    06/02/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    15.40
  17    12/01/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    19.94
  18    04/22/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    23.27
  19    11/29/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    28.65
  20    04/26/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    32.66
  21    11/20/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    37.80
  22    12/14/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    37.83
  23    06/25/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    40.00




                                               v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                  Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                     Reallocations among

  10/28/2004        N       S      S         19.94   components due to lack of
                                                     demand for the sewerage
                                                     component.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1     Context at Appraisal. The main development priority of the Government of
Paraguay at the time of project appraisal was to improve the living standards of its
population, through sustainable economic growth to be achieved through the
modernization of its economy and institutions. Within this context, the government was
addressing three priorities:

    · Social development, especially improved basic education, health services, and
        housing.
    · Reform       of   the   state,  through   improved    public   sector   management,
        decentralization, privatization and judicial reform.
    · Private sector development through financial sector deepening, privatization of
        state enterprises, promotion of small- and medium-size companies; and provision
        of basic infrastructure.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time of project preparation and appraisal
(1997) was designed to respond to the government's priorities by focusing the Bank's
efforts in the following areas:

    · Improving the delivery of basic social services, and reducing poverty through
        programs focused mainly in rural and marginal urban areas.
    · Redefining the role of the state by concentrating on core functions. As part of this
        effort, the Bank provided assistance on decentralization and strengthening of local
        management capacity, including community-based organizations.
    · Improving the conditions for attracting private investment and improving the
        efficiency of public investment.

Project design addressed all three areas of CAS focus. First, through its focus on rural
areas and smaller communities, the project was targeted mainly at low-income groups.
Second, through the proposed collaborative approach among communities, and related
changes in the project executing agency's practices, the project was to contribute to the
government's decentralization efforts and to improve the efficiency of public investment.
And, third, through the pilot program for private water providers, the project was to
attract increased private investment and managerial capabilities to the rural water sector.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators.
Consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy, the main project development objective
was the rapid increase of water supply and sanitation coverage in rural areas. The
strategy to provide the services was based on community participation in planning,
constructing, operating, and maintaining the water systems, as well as in assuming the
financial obligations related to the system's operation and maintenance, as well as (in
some cases and to some degree) debt service for capital costs.




                                              1

The project also aimed at developing a collaborative approach among communities,
through technical assistance from the more to the less experienced communities.

The secondary development objective was to modify SENASA's role in the sector from
an implementer to a promoter of projects, by shifting activities to the private sector and
non-governmental organizations, while maintaining its regulatory functions.

The key indicators to measure the achievement of the development objectives were
established as follows:

   · First: increasing the provision of water services from 20% of the rural population
        at the time of project approval to 30% by 2003.
   · Second: decreasing the number of SENASA's staff per system constructed per
        year from 6.0 to 3.1.

In addition to the indicator of SENASA's staff per system constructed, one of the project
outputs involved transforming SENASA from direct implementer of projects to a planner
and regulator of "juntas" (water users associations) and of private operators through a
new legal framework.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications.
The PDO and the indicators were not revised.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries.      The project sought to contribute to poverty reduction
through improved productivity and health particularly of women and children.
Accordingly, the project targeted dispersed rural communities, mostly below the poverty
level, in both the Eastern and the Chaco Regions. Most beneficiaries were in the Eastern
Region where 98% of the country's population lives.            Within this context, the
beneficiaries of the different project components were as follows:

   · Rural communities in the Eastern Region, with an estimated 324,000 inhabitants,
        would benefit from the expansion of existing or the construction of new water
        supply systems.
   · Indigenous communities in the Chaco, with an estimated 35,000 inhabitants,
        would benefit from the construction of new water supply systems.               The
        indigenous population is considered to be the poorest of the poor in the country.
   · Rural communities in the Eastern Region, with an estimated 40,000 inhabitants,
        would benefit from the construction of new sewerage systems.
   · Rural communities with about 130,000 inhabitants would benefit from latrines
        built in project communities.

1.5     Original Components. The project comprised the following four components:

Component 1. Constructing and Expanding Water Supply Systems. This component
aimed at increasing the provision of water supply services to smaller, impoverished rural
communities throughout the country. The following activities were planned at appraisal:



                                             2

   · Constructing new rural water supply systems to provide services to 330
       communities in the Eastern Region.
   · Expanding existing water supply systems to provide services to 10 communities in
       the Eastern Region.
   · Constructing new water supply systems in 35 indigenous communities in the
       Chaco region.

Component 2. Constructing Wastewater Disposal Systems. This component aimed at
increasing the provision of sanitation services in project communities throughout the
country. The following two activities were planned at appraisal:

   · Constructing new pilot sewerage systems to provide services in 10 rural areas.
   · Constructing latrines in project communities to serve 21,500 families.

Component 3. Institutional Development.       This component aimed at supporting the
government's initiatives for modifying SENASA's role in the sector from an
implementer to a promoter of projects. The following four activities were planned:

   · Institutional Strengthening of SENASA.          This activity was designed to help
       SENASA in its transition from project implementer to project planner and
       promoter.    These activities included contracting out studies and engineering
       designs, borehole drilling, project promotion and community mobilization.
   · Promotion of Associations of "Juntas." With more than 300 juntas operating
       rural water supply systems nationwide at the time of appraisal, it had become
       increasingly impossible for SENASA to provide post-construction TA directly to
       all rural communities under its jurisdiction. Associations of "juntas" were
       considered to be the most practical approach to decentralizing sector activities and
       providing post-construction TA in a cascading fashion. Thus, the component
       aimed at promoting, creating, and providing technical support to the associations
       of "juntas," which would serve as the vehicle for interchange of experience and
       self help among the "juntas."
   · Pilot Program for Private Providers. The pilot was designed to test the interest
       and potential role of private providers in the provision of water services in rural
       areas.   The activities included studies for the definition of criteria for the
       encouragement of private providers as well as incentives for promoting private
       sector participation under the Build-Operate -Transfer model.
   · National Rural Water and Sanitation Program.             This activity aimed at the
       formulation of a program to overcome the large deficits in service coverage in
       rural areas, and to provide entry points for donors and other financiers.

Component 4. Project Administration Support. This component provided consultants for
engineering designs, subproject promotion, construction supervision, environmental
impact analyses required for wastewater systems, as well as project administration and
monitoring.    SENASA was responsible for the administration of the consultants'
contracts and for the supervision of their work.


                                             3

1.6    Revised components.         All the components were implemented and no new
components were added. The only changes between appraisal and implementation were
in numerical targets because of the Bank's and SENASA's decision to shift funds from
one project component to another. These changes are outlined in Annex 2.

1.7    Other significant changes. The only changes requiring formal Bank approval
were the three extensions of the closing date from the initial one of December 2003 to the
final one of June 2007, thus extending the project implementation period from six to
nine-and-a-half years.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Rationale for the Bank's intervention. The PAD justified the Bank's intervention on two
grounds. The first one was realism and importance. The Bank was familiar with issues
facing the sector, and a relationship of trust had developed between the Bank and the
government during the implementation of three successful rural water supply projects
financed by the Bank over a 20-year period.

The second justification for the Bank's intervention was the project support to the
preparation of a Five-year National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program designed
to address issues raised by the heavy SENASA workload as implementer of projects.
This justification of Bank's intervention is less solid than the first one, as it is likely that
the Program could have been prepared without Bank assistance.

Lessons incorporated in the project. Project preparation incorporated most of the lessons
learned from the three previous Bank-financed projects. The key lessons incorporated
involve the importance of community participation, cost recovery, establishment of
associations of "juntas," and decentralization & strengthening of SENASA's activities as
well as operational approaches for achieving them.             A lesson not satisfactorily
incorporated was to give higher emphasis to hygiene education to ensure that sanitation
investments produced the greatest possible health impacts.

Soundness of the background analysis. The background analysis was sound, as it was
based on the experience with three successful Bank-financed projects plus selected
innovations aimed at pushing the envelope of SENASA's capability.

Project design. Project design was satisfactory. It provided a framework specific enough
to give a clear sense of direction but also flexible enough to permit refinements, additions
and updates:

    · The project objectives were highly relevant as they were consistent with the
       government's and Bank's objectives as established in the 1997 Country
       Assistance Strategy for Paraguay.


                                               4

   · The number and complexity of the project components, as well as the project cost,
       significantly exceeded previous Bank-financed projects with SENASA (the total
       cost of the third and fourth projects were USD 36 million and USD 56 million
       respectively). In retrospect, it might be surmised that project complexity and it
       comparatively high investment level represented a substantial risk for project
       implementation.     The Bank's decision at the time of project appraisal was,
       however, sound, as it took into account the satisfactory and timely completion of
       the previous project. In addition, the Bank's decision took into account that the
       project design included contracting out a number of activities previously carried
       out directly by SENASA's staff, thus increasing the entity's implementation
       capacity.
   · The inclusion of pilot programs for private sector participation in the provision of
       rural/small town water supply services and junta-operated condominial sewerage
       systems. The first pilot, in addition to pushing the envelope of SENASA's
       capabilities, also built on similar and successful experiences with small private
       water providers ("aguateros") in the peri-urban areas of Paraguayan cities. The
       second pilot program represented a risky proposition for SENASA because of its
       lack of experience in the construction or financing of sewerage systems. In
       addition, it was questionable to leave the preparation of the two pilots for the
       project implementation period, given the time constraints during project
       implementation.
   · The water supply project component in the Eastern Region, which accounted for
       more than 50% of the total project cost, was a straightforward activity for
       SENASA because of its long and highly satisfactory experience in this area. In
       addition, the preparation of this project component was substantially advanced at
       the time of appraisal. Engineering designs for a substantial number of these
       projects were financed by a Japanese Grant and were ready by the time of loan
       effectiveness.
   · Not much progress had been made at the time of appraisal in the preparation of
       the subprojects in indigenous communities.

Assessment of risks. Project design considered a substantial number of risk factors and
adopted appropriate measures to mitigate the identified risks. The risk assessment had,
however, failed to adequately evaluate the implications of the political instability and the
deteriorating fiscal situation in Paraguay at the time of project appraisal for project
implementation.     These factors were later to become largely responsible for the
substantial delays experienced in project implementation.

A QAG assessment rated quality at entry as satisfactory.

2.2            Implementation. Project implementation was negatively impacted by
changes in the political landscape in Paraguay during 1997-2003, which was the original
project implementation period. There were three governments during this period, which
was characterized in the Bank's 2004/2007 CAS as "a period of steady erosion of
governance and economic decline". SENASA was directly impacted by this political




                                             5

instability as evidenced by the dismissal of the management team which had prepared the
project and negotiated the Bank loan.

Project implementation was also affected by the suspension of Bank disbursements to
Paraguay between December 2002 and April 2003. An immediate consequence of these
developments on the project was a major delay in implementation. This is reflected by
loan disbursements - at the time of the original closing date (December 31, 2003)
disbursements amounted to only 25% of the loan amount.

Project implementation experienced a major turn-around starting in 2003-2004, when the
political situation stabilized with the election of a new president on a campaign to fight
corruption and improve economic management, with an emphasis on social and fiscal
responsibility. The Bank contributed to this turn-around by putting in place a new project
team with a fresh outlook, and by extending the closing date for the loan. The Bank's
actions were supported by a 75% increase in the yearly supervision budget (from an
average of USD 74,000 per fiscal year from FY 99 to FY 03 to USD 130,000 per FY
from FY 04 to FY 06).

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a)     M&E design. The project was prepared at a time when M&E design was given
less emphasis than it is today. The project outputs and their key performance indicators
were well defined in the PAD. In contrast, the project development objectives and their
key performance indicators were poorly defined and justified. For example:

    · The PAD states that the baseline for one of the PDO indicators ­ increases in
        water and sanitation coverage in project areas ­ was to be established during
        project implementation. The PAD, however, moves on to provide specific values
        for the base-line and for the end-of-project, without explaining the basis for the
        estimates.
    · The PAD establishes a precise quantitative reduction in the incidence of water
        related diseases as a result of the project, without having the benefit of the
        baseline, which was to be established during project implementation.
    · The PAD fails to elaborate on the methodology, costs and responsibilities for
        carrying out the surveys to establish the baseline for the above indicators. It also
        fails to elaborate on the technical difficulties of isolating the impact of water
        supply and sanitation on mortality and morbidity indicators.
    · The causal linkage between the PDO of establishing SENASA as a promoter of
        water supply and sanitation systems and of its performance indicator (staff per
        water systems constructed per year) is not evident. Nevertheless the PAD does
        not elaborate on the linkage.

(b)     M&E implementation.          Data collection during project implementation was
limited to the indicators for project outputs. The surveys required for establishing the
baseline and to follow up on service coverage levels and the incidence of water related
diseases were not carried out.



                                              6

(c)     M&E utilization. SENASA and the Bank's supervision missions were rigorous
in monitoring project outputs. Deviations from the targets were properly documented. In
contrast, SENASA and the Bank's missions failed to collect information related to the
monitoring indicators for project development objectives. Both SENASA and the Bank's
supervision team concentrated on delivering the outputs which contributed to the
achievement of the development objective of the project, in the absence of base line
information, close monitoring of the selected PDO indicators seemed irrelevant. To
compensate for this shortcoming, the PSRs presented outputs as evidence of achievement
of project objectives.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance. There were no significant deviations or
waivers from Bank safeguards/fiduciary policies and procedures. The most relevant
policies and procedures under this project were environment, indigenous people, financial
management; procurement; and disbursements.

The regional safeguards adviser commended the Bank's supervision team for its
incorporation of social and indigenous issues into project design and implementation. A
forthcoming note will be published were lessons from this project will be disseminated as
a regional best practice.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a)     Transition arrangements.         As the approach to the project includes the
participation of the beneficiary communities through the "juntas" from the beginning of
the subprojects, as well as the immediate delivery of the assets to the communities for
their operation and maintenance there are no special transition requirements at the end of
the project.

The above approach has worked well for thirty years in hundreds of communities, so
there is reason to believe that it would be successful in the case of this project. There are,
however, two significant changes, the impact of which should be carefully monitored by
SENASA. The first is related to the technical assistance requirements of the "juntas",
which was previously provided directly by SENASA and will now be provided by the
associations of "juntas" established under the project, with support from SENASA. The
change in post-construction TA has become necessary given the large number of Juntas
under operation and the impossibility of providing TA to them directly through SENASA
without a large increase in SENASA's staff and budget. As the associations are new and
still technically and financially weak, their boards confront a challenging task in
demonstrating that they can provide value added to the juntas, with close support from
SENASA.      SENASA and other government agencies, such as the recently created
regulator for the water and sanitation sector (ERSSAN) will need to cooperate with the
associations to increase their chances of success.

The second change is related to the role of the water regulator, ERSSAN and its impact
on the "juntas". It is too early to evaluate the potential impact of ERSSAN on the



                                              7

operations of the "juntas", as the entity is still in the process of defining how to work in
rural areas. ERSSAN and SENASA are cooperating in defining how they will work
together to support the "juntas".

(b)     Performance indicators. For the proposed Water Sector Modernization Project
(scheduled for board in early FY09), the preparation team is already working on the
design of an impact evaluation. It will build on the experience with the Fourth Rural
Water Project and will focus on the identification of measurable indicators that will
capture the progress towards achievement of the development objectives of the project
and to track project implementation performance. There is also a need to develop a sector
information system to track progress in the sector. This ICR recommends that SENASA
and ERSSAN take the lead in implementing an information system to collect and
disseminate performance indicators in the rural water supply and sanitation sector ­ an
activity that would be supported by the new operation. The government could be assisted
in this endeavor by the associations of juntas.              The following indicators are
recommended:

    · Number of "juntas"
    · Population in the service area of the "juntas"
    · Population served by the "juntas"
    · Hours of service provided by the "juntas"
    · Chlorination
    · Water quality control
    · Tariff structures and levels
    · Metering practices (macro and micro)
    · Sanitation and hygiene practices
    · Number of associations of "juntas" and number of associates

(c)     Follow-up by the Bank.          The Water Sector Modernization Project under
preparation will build on the successful experiences with private sector participation and
indigenous communities developed under the Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project. It will also support SENASA in the implementation of improved sanitation and
sewerage services in rural and small towns served by juntas. More importantly, the
proposed operation will continue supporting the institutional strengthening process that
began during the Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project. The new operation,
however, will for the first time support the sector as whole. It intends to build on the
experiences with private operators and sanitation and to use the lessons learned in rural
areas to improve performance of the urban sector, which is currently the main focus of
Paraguay's water and sanitation sector. The new operation will also provide institutional
strengthening to the water regulator, ERSSAN, to enable it to become an effective actor
in the rural sector in partnership with SENASA.




                                              8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation. The project objectives,
design and implementation remain highly relevant as judged by the development
priorities and circumstances prevailing at the time of this ICR. In fact, the main project
development objective of increasing water supply and sanitation coverage to the poorest
people in rural areas is a high priority in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
2004/07, which includes the proposed Water Sector Modernization Project. In addition to
expanding rural water supply and sanitation coverage, the proposed project also
envisages the continuation of innovative private-public partnerships in the rural water
supply sector through participation by local private operators. .

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives. As the PAD's inadequate
indicators for project development objectives preclude a meaningful evaluation of their
achievement, this ICR infers such achievements from key associated outputs. It is
important to reiterate that the project was prepared at a time where monitoring and
evaluation was given less emphasis in project design. With this caveat, the overall
achievement of the project development objectives is rated satisfactory.             Project
achievements, objective by objective, are outlined below.

Objective 1: Increasing the provision of water services from 20 percent of the rural
population at the time of project approval to 30 percent by 2003. The rating for this
objective is satisfactory. This ICR infers the achievement of the objective from the
number of communities and people directly benefited by the project. Both, the number of
communities benefited by the water supply component and the number of latrines built
exceeded the targets in the PAD (See Results Framework). The population served with
water was, however, somewhat less than estimated at appraisal as the communities
benefiting from the water supply components were smaller than estimated at appraisal.
Overall, the increase in water coverage that can be attributed to the project is estimated at
8.5 percent, as a result the project increased the coverage of rural water services from
20% to 28.5 percent .

Objective 2: Modifying SENASA's role in the sector from an implementer to a promoter
of projects, through the shifting of its activities to the private sector and non-
governmental organizations, while still maintaining its regulatory functions. The rating
for this objective is satisfactory although the performance indicator was only partially
achieved given that the indicator was not appropriate to reflect the achievement of this
objective. The indicator selected at appraisal was to decrease the number of SENASA's
staff per system constructed per year from 6.0 to 3.1. The end-of-project value was 4.9.
The project had, however, important institutional impacts, such as: (i) establishing the
practice of contracting most activities related to project implementation (designs,
construction, social promotion) with the private sector; (ii) successfully implementing the
first scheme of private sector participation in rural water supply worldwide, using an
output-based-approach for the provision of water supply services in 8 communities; (iii)
effectively promoting associations of juntas for the provision of technical assistance
previously provided directly by SENASA staff; (iv) training of SENASA staff, juntas and
associations of juntas, significantly improving the technical capacity of the rural water


                                             9

sector in the country; (v) acquisition and implementation of a unified information system
for the institution, considered by the Bank's procurement and financial management staff
as best practice, which helped SENASA achieve high levels of disbursements in a
restrictive fiscal environment; (vi) the revision of the managerial and administrative
structure of the institution, making it a more efficient and effective institution able to
implement a larger number of projects per year and to work in parallel in different
regions of the country (Eastern and Chaco) with differentiated strategies by community
size; (vii) construction of a new building for SENASA's headquarters in Asunción and
the first decentralized office in the Chaco region (Irala Fernandez), and (viii) improving
SENASA's capability to carry out hydro-geological studies. Another significant outcome
of the project was SENASA's capacity to assume a policy making role, working together
with the Ministry of Finance to design and implement a unified financial policy for the
rural water supply sector, thereby making Paraguay one of the few countries in the region
to establish such an important policy.

Box 1. Paraguay: First Output Based Aid (OBA) subsidy scheme in the rural water and
sanitation sector worldwide
The context ­ The Bank piloted an OBA financing scheme for water and sanitation services in
rural areas. SENASA was exploring mechanisms to meet demand and to comply with its
expansion targets in a more efficient and cost-effective manner and decided to explore
partnerships with the private sector and local communities.
Regulatory reforms ­ Law No. 1614 of 2000 legalized the outsourcing of water services and
provided limited protection for the private operators who had already developed their own water
systems. Through this law, the Aguateros (independent entrepreneurs who serve peri-urban
populations through their own networks and who compete successfully with the main public
operator) were officially recognized and were allowed to operate in the formal sector.
The OBA financing scheme ­ Three successive rounds of bidding were organized in 2002, 2004
and 2005, resulting in the award of six contracts to construction companies associated with
Aguateros. OBA financing is provided in the form of a subsidy per new connection made in the
service area. In the first round of bidding, the selection criterion was the connection cost for the
end consumer (based on a fixed subsidy amount of $150 USD per connection).The successful
bidder won the bid by setting the connection cost at between $200 and $217 USD per connection,
equivalent to 40% of the total estimated cost of each connection. In the second round of bidding,
the entrepreneurs had to compete on the amount of subsidy they would request from the
government (taking account of a fixed connection cost of US$80 for domestic consumers as well
as pre-determined tariff levels), thereby shifting the bidding risk from the end customers to
SENASA. Operators were required to provide service to anybody who asks for it and pays the
connection charge in a defined service area for 10 years.
Regulatory arrangements for OBA ­ The arrangements are governed by three parallel contracts:
· A construction contract between SENASA and the private operator, setting out standard
construction requirements;
· An agreement between SENASA and the local water user association (UA) regarding the
subsidy arrangement and supervision requirements;
· A renewable 10-year operation and maintenance contract between the UA and the operator.
SENASA organized the bidding and selection process and disbursed the subsidy to the operator
upon satisfactory completion of the agreed outputs (effective service provision in a given number
of new water connections) and construction components. The UA is responsible for representing
the community and supervising the operator's compliance with the O&M contract. The
consumption tariffs were specified in the bidding documents on the basis of the estimated costs of



                                                 10

service provision (including a minimum tariff to provide security against seasonal variation in
demand). Quality standards are specified in the O&M contracts and tend to focus on outputs
rather than inputs.
Evaluation ­ The OBA financing scheme has generally been considered a success: the local
communities have been satisfied because service has expanded more rapidly than previously and
their contribution to the costs of expansion has gone down. This innovative mechanism takes the
initial financial pressure off the government, that is required to finance 70 percent of the
investment cost upfront of which SENASA slowly recovers in 10 years with no interest 30
percent of the initial project cost, in practice with the traditional model, Government co-finances
a larger share of the investment cost when financial costs for the Government are properly assed.
Despite the subsidy, some potential beneficiaries still had difficulties in paying the connection
charge so they were subsequently allowed to contribute their labor instead, through an innovative
work-for-connection vouchers program, implemented by one of the private companies.
Additional service options, such as water kiosks or tap stands, have not been considered as yet,
but may be required to reduce costs.
The regulatory arrangements, although appropriate, were untested and have taken some time to
become operational. The UAs have faced some difficulties in performing their oversight role,
partly due to a lack of financial and human resources (this has partly been addressed in the last
contract by allocating a small supervision fee to the UA out of the operator's revenues). They
have been relatively reactive rather than proactive in their monitoring role. ERSSAN is
responsible for regulating service quality but as it is relatively new, it has taken time to develop
their enforcement capacity.

- Franz Drees, Jordan Schwartz and Alex Bakalian. "Output-Based Aid in Water. Lessons in implementation from a
pilot in Paraguay", World Bank Viewpoint Series Note 270, April 2004.
- Franz Drees, Jordan Schwartz, Maria Angelica Sotomayor and Alex Bakalian. "Output-Based Aid in Water. Lessons
in implementation from a pilot in Paraguay", World Bank OBApproaches, Note 07, May 2005.
- Sophie Trémolet and Jonathan Halpern. "Regulation of water and sanitation services:
Getting better service to poor people", OBA Working Paper Series. Paper No. 8, June 2006



3.3       Efficiency. A detailed ex-post economic cost-benefit analysis was conducted for
a sample of 18 projects financed under the Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project. This ex-post evaluation was conducted by technical staff of SENASA who
received training in economic and financial analysis of investment projects, financed with
loan proceeds, under the Bank's guidance. This selected sample represents different
types of technological options implemented in all major regions of the country. The size
range of the systems analyzed was between 418 and 1,728 connections.

The benefits assessed through this sample are improved water services to approximately
90,500 beneficiaries in 18 rural communities in 5 departments. The main results of the
ex-post economic analysis of the sample of subprojects are presented in Table 1 in Annex
5. Of the 18 projects evaluated, only 3 were economically unfeasible. The results of the
evaluation showed an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) ranging from 0% to 73%
with an average economic return of 34% and an average net present value (NPV) of US$
73,950. The results of the ex- post analysis compare favorably with the average results
from the ex-ante economic analysis prepared at appraisal in May, 1997 for 8.000
households in 30 communities. The EIRR for the new systems' component was 10% in
the base case scenario based on cash benefits only and it was 18% for the same
component using cash benefits and institutional strengthening using a discount rate of


                                                       11

10%. The overall result of the ex-post analysis of the project is substantially positive
based on the results of the sample analyzed.

While the average rate of return per sub-project and the overall economic net present
value were higher than expected at appraisal, the results of the ex-post assessment led
SENASA and the project team to revise the economic assessment methodology in the
Operational Manual for the new project to simplify its application and allow for easier
screening of economically unviable sub-projects. Detailed results of the economic
analysis are shown in Annex 5.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating. The overall outcome rating for the
project is Satisfactory. This project exceeded its targets for the number of communities
to be served with water services and individual sanitation solutions, established
mechanisms for post-construction assistance to juntas to ensure sustainability of the
juntas and piloted innovative approaches to improved rural water service provision in
partnership with the private sector with world-wide relevance. It was also successful in
improving the operational performance of SENASA and equipping the agency to
substantially increase its implementation capacity, while making Paraguay one of the first
countries in Latin America with a unified financial policy for the rural water sector.
Were it not for the limited progress with the sewerage pilot and initially slow overall
project implementation, the overall outcome could be rated "highly satisfactory". As it
stands, the overall outcome is rated "satisfactory".

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project had
important positive impacts on the three aspects as indicated below.

   · It benefited small rural communities in the Eastern Region through the
       construction and expansion of approximately 500 water supply systems and
       through the provision of 21,500 latrines. The small rural communities are among
       the poorest in the country.
   · It benefited 118 indigenous communities in the Chaco Region through the
       construction of 92 water supply systems, the expansion and/or rehabilitation of 26
       systems and the provision of 1,750 latrines. The indigenous communities in the
       Chaco region are the poorest of the poor in the country. The Government and the
       Bank made the decision to shift resources from components with insufficient
       demand, benefiting larger and richer small towns (like sewerage and expansion of
       water systems) in Eastern Paraguay to the indigenous communities' component
       that provides water and sanitation services to the poorest region of the country,
       increasing the poverty impact of the Project.
   · SENASA's presence in the Chaco region and the approach taken by the project
       following the Bank's indigenous peoples safeguard, has been important in
       bringing these remote and neglected communities to the government's attention,
       and with the construction of a decentralized building in the Chaco region, it has
       been possible to provide more permanent and direct technical assistance to these



                                             12

       communities where the associations of juntas model will not be a feasible option
       due to the harsh conditions in the Chaco region.
    · According to the project's ex-post social review, the project encouraged some
       women's participation through the appointment of at least one woman on each
       new "junta" board. Moreover, in 45% of the juntas there are 2 or more women on
       the Board (boards typically comprise 5 members of which 4 are elected) and
       100% of the juntas have women participating in annual/ semi-annual meetings.
    · The project helped to further social development by building on the country's
       strong tradition of community participation in the provision of water and
       sanitation services through "juntas."
    · It advanced the process of community participation through the establishment of
       eight associations of juntas. These associations have the potential to become an
       important vehicle for sharing of experiences and the provision of technical
       assistance among juntas, as well as to become an effective representation (voice)
       of the rural water supply sector vis-à-vis decision makers at the central level.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening. The Bank's support to SENASA through
the project has been an important element in helping to consolidate and expand the
entity's capacity to provide water and sanitation services to rural communities. The main
project impacts in the area of institutional and organizational development are the
following:

    · The implementation of new approaches to the provision of water services in
       small communities using the Output-Based-Approach (OBA) with private
       providers. This approach seeks to mobilize private capital for the sector and
       attract private management practices.
    · The government issuance of a consolidated financial policy for the rural water
       supply sector. This policy is an important step in introducing financial discipline
       in the sector as it requires all financiers, internal and external, to apply the same
       terms and conditions to the financing of water supply projects in the rural areas.
    · SENASA outsourcing, for the first time, of services traditionally carried out by
       its own staff. These services include: design of water and sewerage systems,
       drilling of wells and installation of well equipment, construction of tanks and
       ancillary equipment, and community promotion. This new approach has allowed
       SENASA to provide services to a larger number of communities, and to provide
       differentiated types of services implemented with a number of strategies based on
       the specific characteristics of the different segments of the market (defined by
       size, dispersion, poverty and region among others).
    · A well trained and highly competent staff that benefited from different training
       activities, including formal education that benefited more than 20 staff with post-
       graduate training and important informal capacity building activities like study
       tours, participating in the Bank's water week and in other international
       conferences where SENASA was invited to share its positive experience.
    · SENASA's improved capability to carry out hydro-geological studies. This
       improved capability is an important step ahead as groundwater resources are
       essential for the Paraguayan economy.


                                             13

The outsourcing of some of SENASA's traditional in-house activities have also provided
a means for the entity to overcome budgetary constraints for financing critical activities,
which -- though financially insignificant -- can have a damaging effect on its operations
if not carried out effectively. These budgetary constraints include lack of funds for travel
expenses like per-diems and gasoline, and an insufficient number of vehicles to enable
SENASA's staff to carry out field work. As it is common in heavily regulated and tight-
budget environments, it is easier for SENASA to enter into a contract with a consulting
firm financed from external loans and grants than to provide the funds to its own staff.

The project has also helped SENASA in consolidating its long-term reputation as a model
public organization in Paraguay, operating under clear rules and policies. SENASA has
often been mentioned in the Bank's own documents as one of the most effective
implementers of Bank-financed projects in Paraguay. SENASA has also earned the
confidence of the government, the rural population as well as international and bilateral
organizations.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). No major
unintended outcomes are known.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholders
Workshops. This is an Intensive Learning ICR. It included four workshops with
stakeholders in addition to visits to selected project sites. The workshops carried out
were the following:

    · Workshops (3) in different cities with participation of representatives of the
        associations of "juntas," the "juntas," and users.
    · A workshop with private providers of water services and representatives of their
        respective "juntas."
    · A workshop with SENASA's staff.
    · A workshop with public sector entities with responsibilities in the sector.
    · Visits to project sites (6) which included interviews with representatives of:
        associations of "juntas," "juntas," and indigenous communities.

The findings of the workshops are summarized by each one of the workshops in the
"Notes from Stakeholder Consultation" available in the project files. The findings are the
outcome of unstructured discussions among the participants with the help of facilitators
provided by the Bank. The main findings are presented in Annex 6 and summarized
below.

The participants in the workshops with the "juntas", associations of "juntas" and users
have a highly favorable opinion of the services provided by the "juntas." Water supply is
continuous and of good quality. The participants indicated, however, that there are areas
for improvement, which include systematic water quality control, chlorination and
metering. The participants reported two main reasons for the shortfalls in these areas: the
cost of chlorination and meters, and the lack of laboratory facilities in areas near the



                                              14

water systems. These types of problems are common in most rural systems in the region.
Through the creation of the associations of juntas, SENASA has taken a proactive
approach to solving these problems in a creative manner, empowering organized civil
society (juntas) to resolve their immediate problems with central government support.
The view of this ICR is that these immediate causes of the shortfalls should be easy to
overcome by the juntas with technical assistance from SENASA and ERSSAN. The
associations of juntas also have the potential to make a substantial contribution to
resolving these issues.

The users of the privately provided water services also have a highly favorable opinion of
the services provided by the private entrepreneurs. The private providers are generally
satisfied with the business but are concerned about the approach that ERSSAN may take
regarding tariff policies. They are not sure whether the tariffs as regulated by ERSSAN
will be consistent with the relevant provisions in their contracts with the juntas and
SENASA. Looking toward the future, the private entrepreneurs expressed interest in
investing in systems with growth potential in areas where there is no competition from
other providers.

SENASA's staff considers that the entity has significantly improved its operations in
recent years.    Some of the accomplishments reported are the following: expanded
capacity to implement projects as a consequence of outsourcing practices under the Bank-
financed project as well as from a parallel IDB project; strengthened social work
activities; improved accounting and budgetary systems as a consequence of the
implementation of new software developed by the government for administrative
activities, and the modern integrated information system and the hardware provided by
the project. The staff raised three main concerns: ensuring a continuous flow of funds for
investments as the entity is dependent on external aid for its programs; insufficient
budgets for vehicles and travel expenses so as to allow the entity to provide more
effective assistance to the communities; and the need to streamline administrative
procedures through increased autonomy from the Ministry of Health.

The representatives of national public entities fully support the rural water supply and
sanitation programs carried out by SENASA. The Ministry of Finance in particular
considers that the rural water supply and sanitation sectors as a whole require continued
subsidies for capital expenditures. The sector financial policy recently implemented
reflects this view. The Ministry also considers that the juntas should generate enough
revenues to cover operation and maintenance costs as well as debt service. The national
agencies understand that the associations of "juntas" are important vehicles for further
sector development and thus consider it important to continue working with them and to
assist them in becoming financially sustainable. ERSSAN in particular is interested in
close cooperation with the associations of juntas.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Moderate.



                                            15

This risk is rated moderate for a number of reasons. First, the reliance on beneficiary
communities for project financing, construction, and day-to-day management of the
systems under SENASA's model, has proven to be highly effective ­ the large number of
systems built over a 30-year period have been not only well managed but the "juntas"
have also been able to substantially expand the systems without government support.
This highly satisfactory performance has allowed the government to allocate its limited
fiscal resources to financing new systems and less to expanding existing systems. There
is no evidence that systems built with SENASA's assistance have fallen into disuse. This
is a major achievement compared with other countries in the region.

Second, throughout project implementation, SENASA helped the communities in
establishing the "juntas" and provided training to their members in the managerial and
technical skills required for efficient and effective systems operation and maintenance.
The training program included: (a) operation and maintenance of water systems; (b) basic
accounting and bookkeeping; and (c) formulation and implementation of tariff levels and
structures aiming at guaranteeing the financial viability of the "juntas".

Third, the large number of water systems and latrines built under the project constitutes a
large portfolio of investments in a range of rural communities (small and poor indigenous
communities in the Chaco region dispersed and concentrated rural communities, and
small towns).     This diversity makes it likely that the above-average development
outcomes of some systems will neutralize possible below-average development outcomes
of other systems and, thus, the sum total of development outcomes will be maintained.
The likelihood of risk events negatively affecting simultaneously the whole portfolio of
projects is low in light of Paraguay's experience, where SENASA's model has proven
robust enough to withstand the major political and economic shocks of the last 30 years.

Despite the success of the model to date, there are some risks that the project
development outcomes may be threatened by low tariffs (ranging between USD 2 and
USD 4 per month for consumption of about 10 to 15 m3 -- metered or estimated) applied
in most systems that do not cover depreciation of assets for their ultimate replacement.
Furthermore, the lack of metering of water consumption and therefore tariffs set on
volume consumed is putting strong pressure on the juntas to control high use for non-
domestic purposes.       Nevertheless, as these risks have been present throughout
SENASA's long history, and there are very successful juntas still operational after more
than 20 years, it is reasonable to expect that over time these problems may be overcome
as the communities will react to the situation by introducing metering once the recently
created small juntas grow to serve larger, denser populations. The accumulated
experience in the sector is an important safeguard for the systems.

The risk facing the privately provided water supply and sanitation services under the
project is also rated moderate. This rating is based on the successful experience with
private small water providers ("aguateros") in urban areas in Paraguay, as there is no
similar experience in the case of SENASA.




                                             16

The risk facing the water supply systems in indigenous areas is above the average for the
project because of the isolation and lack of resources of the communities and of
SENASA to provide the necessary support. However, SENASA is committed to making
those investments sustainable by increasing its presence in the Chaco region, and given
that investments in these communities represent a small portion of the overall project, the
overall rating remains moderate.
The risk facing the sewerage pilots (Villeta, San Pedro and Hohenau) is above the
average for the project because of the low connection rates and the associated low billing
and collection rates, for sewerage services-- although these juntas had a strong balance
sheet at the begging of the pilots. The operation and maintenance of these systems
impose an additional financial constraint into the junta's cash flow. The systems also
face a risk of deteriorating earlier than originally designed, if the juntas are not expending
sufficient resources to provide for adequate operation and maintenance of the sewerage
systems.    To mitigate these risks the implementation of an aggressive connection
campaign is recommended for each of the three towns, as increasing coverage and
collection will provide adequate financial resources to the juntas to conduct adequate
maintenance of the systems.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


5.1     Bank Performance

Satisfactory.

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance in defining the overall project development objectives was
highly satisfactory, as the objectives were consistent with higher objectives stipulated in
the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and set an ambitious though feasible agenda
for moving SENASA to the frontier of worldwide best practice in the rural water and
sanitation sector. In fact, the objectives established in both the CAS and the project
include: improving the delivery of basic social services, reducing poverty through
programs focused on rural and marginal areas, and decentralizing and strengthening local
management capacity.

In addition, the project design did a satisfactory job in incorporating lessons from the
three previous Bank-financed rural water supply projects, particularly the lessons related
to the successful performance of the juntas. The Bank's performance in assisting the
government and SENASA in identifying the two pilot components under the project was
also highly satisfactory. The Bank's performance in preparing and appraising these two
components was less satisfactory, as it was left for the project implementation period.




                                              17

The Bank's performance in assessing SENASA's capability to carry out investments
under the project that were substantially larger and more innovative than the ones under
the previous project was moderately satisfactory. This issue of project implementation
capability is particularly relevant when one takes into account that the project included
two pilot components ­ rural water supply systems with private sector participation and
sewerage. The Bank was successful in moving the rural water and sanitation sector
forward, despite the fact that, the country political and economic conditions described in
the 1997 CAS suggested a more cautious approach.

(b)     Quality of Supervision

Satisfactory.

The quality of Bank's supervision was uneven throughout the project implementation
period and across project components. Thus, the satisfactory rating is the consolidated
result of several factors discussed below.

Supervision during the initial years of project implementation is rated moderately
satisfactory because of the Bank's limited effectiveness in dealing with the difficult years
of the interim presidency in Paraguay from 1999 to 2003. As indicated in another section
of this ICR, the Bank characterized these years as "a period of steady erosion of
governance and economic decline."

The above country circumstances were reflected in SENASA through the appointment of
a politicized management team replacing the team which had led project preparation and
appraisal, as well as negotiations of the Bank loan. The behavior of this new team did
not earn the confidence of the Bank's supervision team.           One of the immediate
consequences of this lack of confidence was that the procurement reviews and approvals
were closely scrutinized by the Bank and, thus, contract awards often had to be returned
to SENASA requesting "additional information" about the basis for award. The lack of
confidence on the part of the Bank's team was exacerbated by a formal complaint by a
contractor about corrupt practices in the awarding of a contract. The Bank's team was
aware that the tight scrutiny of procurement was time consuming, but deemed it a
necessary approach. The Bank's team proactively contracted a senior local engineering
professor, to perform close monitoring of project activities between missions.

Another consequence of the lack of confidence, between SENASA and the Bank's
project team were substantial delays in reaching agreement on specific subprojects to be
financed under the project.      The delays resulted in both the Bank and SENASA
expressing their disappointment with each others' behavior under the project at the time
of the mid-term review. This lack of confidence did hamper project implementation, as it
was not conducive to an effective dialogue between SENASA and the Bank.

Despite the severity of the above problems, the Project Status Reports (PSRs) rated
"implementation progress" and "project management" as satisfactory until the time of the
mid-term review in September 2001.          "Procurement schedules" and "procurement
policies and procedures" were rated "satisfactory" or "not rated" until May 2001. This


                                            18

lack of candor in the Bank's internal reporting presents two problems: one, it affects the
integrity of the Bank's reporting system, and, two, it is likely to prevent Bank
management from taking action to help resolve the project issues.

Supervision improved after the mid-term review when project implementation issues
were openly discussed between the Bank and SENASA's management. The increased
transparency in project supervision, together with changes in SENASA's management
under a new government in 2003 translated into a new dynamic between SENASA and
the Bank.    The new dynamic was characterized by trust and a highly cooperative
approach to project implementation. As a consequence, the decision making process was
improved and accelerated.

The Bank's supervision of the pilot program for the private provision of water services in
rural areas was highly satisfactory.      The Bank rightly recognized that this pilot
represented a significant opportunity for organizational and institutional reform. It also
recognized the likely threats to its implementation, derived primarily from SENASA's
lack of experience in this area.     As a consequence, the Bank allocated substantial
supervision resources to this project component to effectively assist SENASA in the
learning process.    The Bank put particular emphasis in the preparation of bidding
documents, as well as in the award of contracts. The outcome of this pilot has been
widely documented by the Bank (see Annex 9, Supporting Documentation) and presented
in several international seminars and workshops in the region and in the Bank, including
during Water Week.

The Bank's supervision of the pilot program for the condominial sewerage component
was moderately satisfactory. In contrast with the case of the private provision of water
services, the Bank was slow in recognizing the threats to the implementation of this
approach for the first time in Paraguay by an entity which had no experience in
promoting, constructing and financing sewerage systems. Once the Bank recognized the
implementation challenges, the team attempted to compensate for this lack of experience
of both SENASA and the engineering firms in Paraguay by incorporating regional
experts on the topic in supervision missions to advise SENASA in aspects related mainly
to the technical specifications of the subprojects, including capacity of the ponds,
diameters and other characteristics of the network. The experts also conducted short
seminars for both contractors and SENASA's staff, increasing their capacity to deal with
issues related to investments in sewerage.

In 2004, after seven years of project implementation, the Bank strengthened the
supervision team by incorporating a staff member with experience in both the technical
and social aspects of condominial sewerage projects. SENASA had major delays in
obtaining the environmental licenses for the proposed discharges based on local
environmental standards, which made each subproject considerably more expensive than
envisaged at appraisal and caused long implementation delays. On the other hand, there
was insufficient demand for initiating the construction of other sewerage systems. Based
on those problems the Bank's team and SENASA decided not to implement the other
seven sewerage subproject envisaged at appraisal and to shift the released financial



                                           19

resources to other project components, mainly to increase service provision for
indigenous communities in the Chaco region.

The Bank's supervision teams concentrated on the completion of works of the three
systems of the sewerage pilot component and did not dedicate enough resources to
systematically documenting the lessons to be learned from the pilot, which are likely to
be many, including what type of feasibility studies should be undertaken before starting
project implementation; what should be the criteria for success of a pilot project; how to
prepare a pilot project in a way conducive to achieve its objectives; how to follow-up on
its implementation; how to finance it; how to evaluate the main risks and how to mitigate
them.

The Bank's supervision of other infrastructure investments was satisfactory. The ex-post
evaluation of some aspects of the project (engineering, indigenous, socio-economic)
conducted in preparation for this ICR provided a good learning experience for SENASA
and the Bank.      The Bank's supervision of SENASA's institutional strengthening
component was highly satisfactory. A positive aspect was the Bank's promotion of
exchange of experiences among Latin American countries: experts from Ecuador visited
Paraguay to learn about the juntas while experts from Paraguay visited Ecuador to learn
about a successful sanitation project in this country. SENASA was invited to deliver
presentations in El Salvador, Ecuador and Peru as well as the World Bank's Water Week.
Experts and country officials from Haiti, Panama and Brazil also visited SENASA to
learn from its experience.


(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Satisfactory, as both components of the ratings ­ quality at entry and quality of
supervision -- have this rating.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Satisfactory

Government performance was, on balance, satisfactory, but with substantial ups and
downs. Its performance was highly satisfactory in some areas like the willingness to
experiment with new approaches, including the implementation of the pilot private sector
participation in rural water supply, the construction of pilot sewerage systems, the
contracting out of services traditionally provided by SENASA, and the continuity of
SENASA's technical staff. The project received support from the Ministry of Finance
and usually received adequate counterpart financing.

The government's dismissal of SENASA's management team shortly after loan approval
together with the hiring of two political appointees was highly unsatisfactory. This




                                           20

political decision proved to be highly detrimental for the project, as it took the new team
some time to understand the project, which resulted in implementation delays.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Satisfactory

Overall's SENASA's performance could be rated satisfactory. Its technical staff was
committed and dedicated and is one of the key determinants of the project's success. Due
to political problems and the difficult situation of the country, the project faced major
challenges to move ahead during the first years of implementation. Mostly due to external
factors, the rating of this period is moderately satisfactory.

However after the Duarte administration took over, this project became SENASA's top
priority. The efforts made by the new administration were reflected in increased
disbursements, compliance with procurement rules and safeguards, and greater resource
allocation to the project. During this period, the rating is highly satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Satisfactory, as both components of the ratings have this rating.



6. Lessons Learned


A. Project approach and design

6.1     Private sector financing of rural water supply projects.               The successful
implementation of six pilot water supply systems under the project provides evidence of
the viability of private sector financing, construction and operation of rural water supply
systems. Participation of local communities throughout the process not only made it more
transparent but it also facilitated relations between the private sector and users. Some of
the key elements for success include informed involvement of the community throughout
the process (including in the determination of tariff and connection costs), the ownership
of the systems by the community, and the participation of the government as a broker
between the private sector and the community. The use of output-based subsidies makes
it easier to provide subsidies targeted to the poor, and the payment of a direct subsidy to
the private constructor-operator is a good incentive for the local private sector to
participate in the rural water sub-sector.

6.2     Government/communities collaboration. The water "juntas" in Paraguay, with
government support, have proven to be an effective mechanism for providing water
supply services to the rural population. The merits of this collaborative approach are
illustrated by this project, where the outputs are much better than the ones each
organization would achieve working alone. In this case the government's strength was its
capability to allocate fiscal and organizational resources to the sector, including an


                                              21

experienced organization like SENASA. The communities' strength was its capability to
contribute part of the capital requirements in cash and labor, community organization,
and commitment to operate and maintain the infrastructure.

6.3     Pilot projects. Pilot projects offer a practical approach to institutional and
organizational change in the sector, as they provide opportunities for learning-by-doing
on a small scale while reducing the severity of the consequences of failure. This point is
illustrated by the two pilots under the project, which despite different outcomes provided
valuable lessons for future projects. Benefiting from these lessons means allocating
resources for the required systematic and rigorous analysis and documentation of relevant
experiences. Thus, the design of pilots should explicitly address the issue of what
hypotheses to test, the methodology to test them, and the methodology to draw the
relevant lessons. It should also address the issue of specialized human resources in the
Bank required to advise the borrower during pilot preparation and implementation.

6.4     Increasing per-capita costs. The provision of water supply services to smaller
and more distant and dispersed communities has resulted in increasing per-capita costs.
This trend is a consequence of two main factors. First, the insufficient economies of
scale in small projects, which is inevitable and, second, the application of basically the
same technology and design criteria to all projects. As the increasing per-capita costs
represent a significant fiscal cost and a financial burden for the communities benefiting
from the water systems, future project designs should emphasize the exploration of
possibilities to increase the cost-effectiveness of the systems.

6.5     Supply-driven sewerage services. Supply-driven approaches to the provision of
sewerage services are likely to result in high fiscal costs, inefficient sector investments,
poor service coverage, and poor targeting of subsidies. This was the case under the pilot
sewerage component of the project.         Project preparation and appraisal should then
recognize that it is essential to undertake substantial up-front work to determine the
community's demand for networked and non-networked sanitation services and, thus, to
avoid ineffective and inefficient interventions.

6.6     The politics of budgets. SENASA experiences a typical problem in public sector
organizations in Paraguay as well as in most developing countries. It carries out large
investments in infrastructure expansion -- new water supply and sanitation systems
financed mainly by bilateral and multilateral organizations, including the Bank. It has,
however, a tight budget for day-to-day activities which are essential for the sustainability
of the investments and for efficiency improvements. The latter part of the budget is
financed out of tax revenues. The tight budget includes allocations for items such as
vehicles, travel expenses and gasoline, which severely hampers SENASA's operations in
highly important areas like social promotion, technical assistance to communities, and
follow-up of its portfolio of projects. To improve performance in this area the Bank
should promote the implementation of budgetary policies and practices leading to more
balanced allocations of fiscal resource for infrastructure expansion and day-to-day
operations and for efficiency improvements.




                                              22

6.7     Building on successes. The Fourth rural water supply project was built on the
success of three previous Bank-financed projects, and it was highly successful in
consolidating SENASA as an effective provider of water and sanitation services in rural
areas, as well as in advancing the envelope of SENASA's capabilities through the
implementation of two pilot projects, and through the institutional strengthening
component. The Bank should continue building on successes of entities like SENASA,
which have an important role in improving the conditions of the poor but do not have the
potential of becoming financially self sustainable.

B. Organizational arrangements for project implementation

6.8     Contracting out community promotion services. SENASA's experience in
contracting out community promotion activities under the project was not fully
satisfactory. In some cases the contractors lacked competent staff and, in others, it
proved difficult to coordinate the work of the construction and the community promotion
contractors, respectively. These weaknesses handicap SENASA's operations considering
that its work is based on community participation. To help improve performance in this
area the Bank should take a pragmatic approach that includes the search for an
appropriate mix between outsourcing services and services provided by the project
entity's staff. The appropriate mix between the two approaches is an empirical issue
which requires experimentation and evaluation of results. Training to the project entity in
drafting community promotion contracts and in monitoring performance should be part of
the recommended approach.

6.9     Associations of "juntas." The associations of "juntas" established under the
project are a potentially valuable vehicle for the development of the rural water and
sanitation sector. Realizing the potential of the associations represents, however, a
significant challenge, as they are still in their infancy and are financially weak. The
outcome of this challenge is likely to have major implications on the operations of the
"juntas," as the project expectation is that in the long run the associations could take over
SENASA's role in providing assistance to the "juntas." Enhancing the technical and
financial viability of the association of "juntas" requires substantial work by the
associations themselves and by the government.

C. Project supervision

6.10    Incremental improvements to project design. Frequent visits to project sites
and close dialogue with project beneficiaries are powerful ways of deepening the
understanding of the beneficiary's interests and desires and allowing for incremental
improvements to project design during project implementation. The benefit of close
supervision by the Bank's teams is illustrated by the improvements made in several
project components during implementation, particularly related to sanitation in
indigenous communities.

6.11    Construction supervision. The quality of the infrastructure built under the
project is generally satisfactory, but there is still room for improvement.              The



                                              23

improvements are important as they could increase the life of the assets, as well as to
enhance the prospects of satisfactory services during use of the assets. The Bank should
provide assistance to the borrower in effective construction supervision given its high
impact on the quality of the infrastructure. This is particularly important in countries
where the project executing agencies and their construction supervisors may find strict
enforcement of contract provisions, including construction standards, politically difficult.

6.12    Transparency in Bank's internal reporting.                Despite severe project
implementation problems prior to the mid-term review, the Project Status Reports rated
"implementation progress" and "project management" as satisfactory.            Procurement,
which was a major issue, was also rated satisfactory until the mission prior to the mid-
term review. This lack of transparency in project reporting is likely to have prevented
management from taking action to help resolve project issues, including substantial
delays in project implementation. It also affects the integrity of the Bank's internal
reporting systems. Project supervision practices should ensure that task managers keep
management adequately informed about the main issues affecting project implementation
and, thus allow it to adequately discharge its fiduciary responsibilities. After the mid-
term review the team offered more candid feedback to management. The implementation
of the ISR system to keep management involved and aware of the project's
implementation status has been a powerful tool for the supervision team to provide
information and receive feedback from management and to report and track progress on
project indicators, and performance by component.

D. Assessment of project risks

6.13    Political, macroeconomic and fiscal risks.            Project implementation was
substantially impacted by the country's political, macroeconomic, and fiscal context. The
unsatisfactory context during the initial stages of project implementation resulted in poor
performance by SENASA, while the improved context at a later stage resulted in
satisfactory performance. Project appraisals should then include rigorous assessments of
the political, macroeconomic, and fiscal risks for the project. If there are no practical
ways to mitigate the risks, the PAD should recognize this fact and explain the reasons for
financing the project under those circumstances.

6.14    Water Quality. The conditions in El Chaco Region make it technically and
economically difficult to provide potable water to disperse and extremely poor
indigenous communities. As a consequence, the objective was not to provide potable
water but to provide these communities with an improved source that not only improved
water quality but provides increased access and reliability of the source. Most of the
water supply systems built under the project in that region use a technology that is likely
to result in the provision of water with a high content of clay and silt without disinfection.
The risks associated with this technology were somewhat mitigated through several
technical means. The project did not, however, put in place adequate mechanisms and
safeguards to control water quality over time, and to evaluate the health impact of the
water supply. As circumstances similar to the ones under the project are likely to be
present in other projects, the Bank should ensure to evaluate whether project agencies are



                                             24

able to allocate sufficient financial and human resources to monitor the water quality and
its impact on the population and to take remedial action when required. The Bank should
also assess if monitoring water quality in remote areas is feasible and the impact it could
have on the overall's project feasibility.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies. SENASA's evaluation report highlights the
following as the most important project accomplishments:

     · The increase achieved in water and sewerage service coverage in rural areas;
     · The strengthening of community participation in the provision of services;
     · The issuance of the unified financial policies for the rural water supply sector; and
     · The contracting of private firms to carry out of some of the activities previously
        carried out by SENASA's staff.

Among the difficulties faced by SENASA, the report mentions the following:

     · Small number of qualified technical staff;
     · Low salaries, which leads to staff not devoting all the time required to SENASA;
     · Complex procurement procedures;
     · Limited financial capacity in the beneficiary communities.
     · Insufficient Bank technical assistance in procurement, as there is no procurement
        specialist in the Bank's office in Asuncion.

(b)     Co-financiers. There were not co financiers for this project but there were other
entities financing separate projects with SENASA, particularly the Inter-American
Development Bank. The approach of the IDB financed project was similar to that of the
Bank-financed project but with one significant difference: the IDB-financed project is
being implemented by a consulting firm hired by SENASA. Most SENASA staff
interprets this decision as a lack of trust by IDB in the institution; on the other hand staff
was fully committed and supportive of the Bank's financed Fourth Rural Project.

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders. See section on stakeholder workshops.




                                              25

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Components                        Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest                Percentage        of
                                  USD (millions)          Estimate (USD millions)      Appraisal
Water Supply Systems              32.80                   33.58                        102.38
Wastewater Disposal Systems       10.80                   5.75                         53.24
Technical Assistance              5.00                    5.79                         115.80
Project   Administration    and   7.10                    9.05                         127.46
Engineering
Total Baseline Cost               55.70                   54.17                        97.25
Physical Contingencies            0.00                    0.00                         N.A.
Price Contingencies               0.00                    0.00                         N.A.
Total Project Costs               55.70                   54.17                        97.25
Project Preparation Fund          0.00                    0.00                         N.A.
Front-end fee IBRD                0.00                    0.00                         N.A.
Total Financing Required          55.70                   54.17                        97.25

(b) Financing

         Sources of Funds Type of            Appraisal          Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                             Co-financing Estimate              Estimate         Appraisal
                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
         Borrower            N.A.            4.10               9.79             238.78
         IBRD                N.A.            40.00              40.00            100.00
         Beneficiaries       N.A.            11.60              4.38             37.76
         Total Financing     N.A.            55.70              54.17            97.25

Note: The increase in borrower financing is due to the higher subsidies for the sewerage component, the
higher subsidies under the new financing policy established by the government for the rural sector, and the
expanded volume of operations in indigenous communities which had a high level of subsidy.




                                                   26

Annex 2 Outputs by Components

Component 1. Constructing and expanding water supply systems

1. A Constructing 330 new rural water supply systems in the Eastern Region

The water supply systems built under the project were similar to the ones built in rural
communities from the 1970's onwards with SENASA's assistance. Thus the technology
is well known in the country.

The physical target at the end of the project was substantially exceeded, as SENASA
constructed 496 systems or 145% of appraisal estimates. By contrast, the number of
project beneficiaries was 15% below appraisal estimates (264,000 actual vis-à-vis
310,000 at appraisal). The gap in the number of beneficiaries is due to the difference in
the size of beneficiary communities between appraisal estimates and actual results, as
shown in the table below.

                Distribution by Size of the New Water Supply Systems
                                         (Percentage)

                         Number of communities served by the Project according
          Size                          to the size of the community
                     < 500 Inhabitants 500 to 1,000 Inhabitants > 1,000 Inhabitants
          Appraisal         15                       55                    30
          Actual            64                       29                     7

The predominance of small and medium water supply systems over the large ones was
also reflected in overall average per capita costs, which were about 15% higher than
estimated at appraisal. The total cost of this component was about the same as estimated
at appraisal because the higher per capita costs were compensated by the lesser number of
beneficiaries. The economies of scale of this type of water supply systems are shown in
the table below:

                  Average Per-capita Cost of Water Supply Systems
                                        (Cost in USD)

                      Size of the System                    Per Capita Cost
                      Less than 500 inhabitants                  150
                      Between 500 and 1,000 inhabitants          100
                      Larger than 1,000 inhabitants              50
                      Weighted average                           110

The financing plan for the water supply systems with contracts signed until 2004 was the
one established in the PAD. For subprojects with contracts signed after that date, the
conditions were the ones under the government's new financial policy for the rural water
sector.




                                               27

The new financial policies are generally more favorable to small communities than the
ones in the PAD as shown in the tables below:

                     Rural Water Supply Systems Eastern Region
                          Financing Plan According to the PAD
                                         (Percentages)


                       Sources of funds               Type of Community
                                                      Standard  Poorer
                       Community contribution
                         Cash, labor and materials        30        25
                         Loan from SENASA                 30        15
                       Total community contribution       60      40%
                       SENASA's grant                     40        60
                                   Total                  100      100



                     Rural Water Supply Systems Eastern Region
                   Financing Plan According to Government Policy
                                         (Percentages)


                  Sources of funds                Number of Connections
                                                  Up to 150 >150 Indigenous
                  Community contribution
                   Cash, labor and materials         18      30        15
                   Loan from SENASA                  0       30        0
                  Total community contribution       18      60       15%
                  SENASA's grant                     82      40        85
                  Total                             100      100      100

SENASA -- with the help of a consultant under the project -- assessed the quality of the
construction for a sample of 23 water supply built under the project. The outcome of this
evaluation was positive, as more than two thirds of the systems were rated as "good";
23% "medium"; and 9% "poor". These results are consistent with previous evaluations
of systems built under this and previous projects. They are also consistent with the
observations by the frequent site visits of Bank supervision missions. In a manner
consistent with the original project design, the systems built do not include micro-
metering.

1. B Expanding water supply systems in the Eastern Region

SENASA financed the expansion of only 7 of the 10 systems estimated at appraisal in the
Eastern region. There was not enough demand for this component given the eligibility
criteria established at appraisal, as a result SENASA and the Bank decided to maintain
the criteria, reduce the scope of this component and to concentrate resources in the
construction of new systems both in Eastern Paraguay and in indigenous communities in
El Chaco. The project financed, however, the expansion of 26 systems in the Chaco
region, which were not envisaged at appraisal.



                                                28

1. C Constructing 35 new water supply systems in indigenous communities in the Chaco
Region

The physical target at the end of the project was substantially exceeded, as SENASA
constructed 92 systems or 260% of appraisal estimates. The number of beneficiaries was
132% of the appraisal estimate (25,100 actual vis-à-vis 19,000 estimated at appraisal).

The per capita cost of the interventions was 57% higher than estimated at appraisal (USD
165 actual vis-à-vis USD 105 estimated at appraisal). The higher per capita costs are
explained by improvements in the project's designs like the construction of communal
sinks and showers, and improvements to original project design to improve water quality
(filters).

The main water technology used by the project is an improved version of a technology
commonly used in the Chaco Region and denominated "tajamares". The "tajamares" are
open-air reservoirs designed to receive and store rainwater and surface runoff. This
technology is used because of three main reasons. First, the Chaco is a semi-arid to arid
region with low precipitation with the larger part of the rains concentrated in five months
(November to March). Second, because the groundwater is highly saline and not suitable
for human consumption. And third, because there are no superficial water sources
(rivers, lakes, etc).

Under the project, the water is distributed from the "tajamares" to standpipes close to the
project beneficiary's houses. The system uses windmill powered pumps for lifting water
from the "tajamar" to an elevated tank. From the tank, the water goes to the distribution
system by gravity. Another technology used under the project but in a smaller scale than
the "tajamares" is rainwater harvesting from the roofs of the houses that is stored in
drums or underground storage called "algibes". Some of the systems built combine the
two systems.

The provision of water supply through the technologies mentioned above represents a
significant contribution to improving the standard of living of the indigenous population
for two main reasons. First, it provides the possibility of continuous water supply
throughout most of the year. And, second, the distribution systems and standpipes built
under the project allow for significant time savings in collecting water.

In contrast with the groundwater used for the water supply systems in the Eastern part of
the country (though not possible in the west due to the high salinity of ground water), the
water from the "tajamar" is less safe as it is likely to carry a high content of clay and silt
in suspension together with potentially harmful microorganisms.            These risks are
somewhat mitigated under the project by a filter which retains the larger particles in the
water lifted from the "tajamar" and by the fencing of the "tajamar" to prevent the
entrance of animals, also combined with a coal filter before underground storage. The
population is aware that the water is not potable and additional measures such as water
boiling are necessary, thus, the extent of the health impact of the project remains to be




                                             29

seen. An additional drawback of the system is the likelihood of wind pump damage
combined with the lack of capacity of the communities to carry out the necessary repairs.

Despite the above issues, the project did not put in place effective feedback mechanisms
to control water quality over time or to evaluate the health impact of the water supply
from the "tajamares" due to the remoteness of the area and the impracticability of
establishing such mechanisms where the only evidence of the presence of the State is the
water system. SENASA's management favored providing water to these remote and
isolated communities even though it is not potable, in light of the political and financial
tradeoffs it faces in allocating scarce administrative and financial resources. The
construction of a decentralized office in the area is an indication of the recognition by
SENASA that there are large needs for post-construction support in the area and shows
its long term commitment to the area.

Component 2. Constructing wastewater disposal systems

2. A Constructing 10 new sewerage systems in the Eastern Region

The objective of this project component was to finance the construction on a pilot basis
of 10 sewerage systems in communities with environmental problems resulting from lack
of sanitation. The original output target was not achieved, as SENASA and the Bank
agreed, late during the project implementation period (December 2004), to reduce from
10 to 3 the number of sewerage systems to be built under the project. The resources
released through this decision were to be reallocated to the provision of water and on-site
sanitation to the poorest and most dispersed communities including those in the Chaco
Region.

The decision by the Bank and SENASA to reduce the scope of this project component
was prompted to a large extent by the lack of effective demand for sewerage services, as
the juntas which had expressed interest in constructing sewerage systems had failed to
meet the eligibility criteria.

There is little experience with sewerage networks in the country; even the national water
utility has limited coverage even in the capital city, Asuncion. That means little capacity
in contractors, in the environmental agency and in SENASA. SENASA's lack of
experience in promoting and financing sewerage projects is also a factor helping to
explain the gap between the number of systems built and the number of systems expected
at appraisal. This lack of experience is reflected, among other things, in the delays in
starting the implementation of this component. For example, the consulting firm to carry
out subproject promotion, design, and construction supervision for the first two
subprojects (Villeta and San Pedro) was only selected by mid-2000, that is, about two-
and-a-half years after loan approval. During this period, SENASA organized a small
sewerage unit and provided training in condominial sewerage to the unit, through
Brazilian consultants and practitioners specialized in this type of technology.




                                            30

Another factor which delayed the implementation of the subprojects was related to the
environmental licensing for the subprojects. These delays were due to two main factors:
first, the lack of knowledge in SENASA about the need for such license and, second, the
protracted negotiations between SENASA and the environmental agency on the
environmental standards to apply. According to the legislation, environmental standards
were dependent on the nature of receiving water courses. However, the lack of resources
to classify receiving water courses prompted the environmental agency to classify
inadequately all courses as medium capacity ignoring the high capacity of some courses.
As a consequence of the process to discuss and resolve this issue, the sewerage
subprojects faced substantial delays. In the case of one of the sewerage systems (San
Pedro) the delays were the result of the inexperience of the sector in handling complaints
by the population in relation to the point of discharge once construction was well
advanced, even though consultations were conducted before initiating the works. This
became a highly controversial political issue where even the Catholic Church had a
strong view. The judiciary system was involved thus creating additional delays but the
case was resolved favorably. The contractor, however, had to suspend works for two
years.

The experience with the 3 sewerage systems built (San Pedro, Villeta and Hohenau) was
also not fully satisfactory because of a number of reasons, the most important of which
are discussed below.

First, the subprojects were undertaken without a satisfactory feasibility study, including
alternative options to address environmental problems in the respective communities.
Later, at the suggestion of the Bank supervision team, SENASA contracted an
international consultant to conduct willingness-to-pay studies for some subprojects,
including Hohenau which was the third, and last, sewerage system built under the project.
These studies showed that the main priorities for the population were employment,
security and roads. Basic sanitation came fourth.

Second, as the two initial subprojects (San Pedro and Villeta) were experiencing
problems in making their financial contributions to project financing, SENASA and the
Bank agreed to modify the subprojects financial plans along the following lines:

    · The investments in wastewater treatment and final disposal would be financed by
         SENASA on a 100% grant basis taking into account the public good nature of
         these investments.

    · The investments in the network and pumping stations would be financed by
         SENASA, 50% on a grant basis, and by the community, close to 50% on a loan
         basis. The loans include two components one with interest and other without
         interest.

    · Connection costs would have a 100% financing by the individual households
         benefiting from the project.




                                            31

The net result of the changes in the financing plan was as shown in the table below:




                              Financing Plan - Appraisal and Actual
                                               (Percentage)
                                Item                     Appraisal Actual
                                Grant                    10         70
                                Loans                    30         271
                                Customer contribution    60         3
                                Total                    100        100

The above shortcomings in subproject preparation and implementation help to explain a
low connection rate to the systems built, with the consequent unused capacity. The low
connection rate also confirms the finding of the willingness-to-pay study regarding the
low priority assigned by the households to improved sanitation. The low rate also
reflects the fact that the households may have significant difficulties in raising the funds
required for capital costs, particularly in-house connections as well as the regular
monthly payments for sewerage and debt service. However, it is important to know that
many conventional sewerage projects face similar difficulties worldwide. The low
connection rate is illustrated in the table below.

                                                Sewerage
           Design Capacity of the Primary Networks and Actual Connections
                                          (No. of Connections)

                                  System       Expected2   Actual3 %

                                  San Pedro    1,700       800       47
                                  Hohenau      1,380       1004      7
                                  Villeta      1,900       800       42
                                  Total        4,980       1,700     35

The unused capacity is reflected in both the primary networks and the wastewater
treatment plants, which is normal for a system that is designed to serve the population
(including its growth) for a 20 year span. The primary networks cover most of the urban
areas while only a relatively low percentage of the households have connected so far to
the systems.

The wastewater treatment plants were built taking into account the expected number of
connections at the time of initiating operations plus the expected population growth for a
ten-year period, thus resulting in a high installed capacity likely to have a low utilization
for a number of years.

1Approximately 50% of the loan does not pay interest. The remaining 50% pays a subsidized interest rate
(the "development rate less 6 percentage points").
2Feasibility estimates at the time of project completion.
3October 2007.
4200 additional households have paid the connection fee but had not connected to the system.


                                                     32

The above results raise questions about the economic and social justification of the
sewerage systems and of the subsidies provided, which ended up benefiting only a
relatively small segment of the population. On the basis of the current number of
connections these subsidies per connection are huge: USD 2,750 in San Pedro and USD
1,624 in Villeta. As about half of the network in Hohenau has yet to be completed there
is not yet a comparative figure for this town. The costs and sources of funds for the
sewerages systems were as follow:

                          Sewerage Systems - Costs and Financing
                                           (USD million)5
                  Item                      San Pedro Hohenau Villeta Total
                  Total Cost                2.2       1.5      1.3     5.0

                  Financing
                    Grants                  1.4       1.2      .9      3.5
                    Loan with interest       .5       .2       .2      0.9
                    Loan without int.        .2       0.04     .2      0.4
                    Customer contribution    0.02     0.05     0.06    0.1
                  Total                     2.2       1.5      1.3     5.0

The above costs are substantially influenced by the cost of the treatment plants (23% of
the total cost in San Pedro; 38% in Hohenau; and 14% in Villeta). Villeta had a relatively
lower cost of the treatment plant because there was not a need for a high level of
treatment as in the other towns. This decision took into account the high capacity of self-
treatment of the Paraguay River.

2. B Constructing 21,500 latrines

The physical target at the end of the project was exceeded, as SENASA financed 23,250
latrines or 108% of appraisal estimates. The additional latrines were installed in the
Chaco Region to benefit indigenous communities which were also served by the water
supply component. This approach should allow a higher health impact of the project than
the provision of only one or the other service.

In addition to the construction of latrines, the project financed a study tour of SENASA's
technical staff to Ecuador where the government with Bank assistance has applied
innovative approaches in sanitation in rural communities.            The project was also
instrumental in establishing a multidisciplinary team in SENASA, integrating engineering
and social aspects of sanitation subprojects. Some of the benefits of this integrated
approach include a better understanding of the needs of users during the design phase,
and hopefully would result in simpler yet more effective solutions, according to the
specific needs of each community

Component 3. Institutional development



5The totals may not add because of the rounding.


                                                 33

3. A Institutional strengthening of SENASA

This project component was satisfactorily implemented, as it assisted SENASA in: (i)
contracting with the private sector most activities related to project implementation,
including: community promotion, design of water and sewerage systems, drilling of
wells, installation of well equipment, and construction of tanks and ancillary equipment;
(ii) improving its capability to carry out hydro geological studies; and (iii) improving its
headquarters and regional offices, purchasing office and laboratory equipment, and
purchasing vehicles.

In parallel with the above organizational reform, SENASA implemented simultaneously
an IDB-financed project which was executed under a contract with a private firm
responsible for all aspects of the project, including its administration and flow of funds.
This approach could be perceived as a deepening of the reform under the project.
However, this approach has been perceived by SENASA as the result of lack of
confidence in its own capabilities to manage funds, as well as conduct the procurement
and contracting processes. It is envisioned that a follow-up operation with Bank support
would continue working with SENASA as the ownership of the institution was one of the
key factors for success under this project.

Overall, the changes in SENASA's modus operandi have been highly positive as they
have allowed it to substantially increase the volume of its operations. It has also provided
a means for SENASA to overcome budgetary constraints for financing critical activities.
These budgetary constraints include lack of funds for travel expenses like per-diems and
gasoline, and an insufficient number of vehicles to enable SENASA's staff to carry out
field work. As is common in heavily regulated and tight-budget environments, it is easier
for SENASA to enter into a contract with a consulting firm financed by external loans
and grants than to provide the funds to its own staff.

The results of contracting out community promotion have not been fully satisfactory.
These results can be illustrated with two examples. In the cases where this work was
contracted with the engineering firms responsible for the physical investments, the
promotion work was not of high priority and suffered because of lack competent staff. In
the cases where there were separate firms carrying out the promotion and the engineering
works it proved to be difficult to coordinate the work of the two firms, particularly when
there were changes in the timetable for the engineering firms.

The less than satisfactory performance could be a consequence of several factors. One is
that SENASA, still in the initial part of the learning curve for this approach, has yet to
learn to draft adequate contracts for these activities. It is also likely that it is more
advisable to carry out certain community promotion activities with SENASA's staff
rather than contracting out them. The appropriate mix between the two approaches is an
empirical issue which requires experimentation and evaluation of the results and of the
success factors.




                                             34

SENASA has not made much progress in collecting its loans to communities. As of
December 2006, the "juntas" had an average of monthly payments overdue ranging from
23 in the case of "juntas" under the project to 80 for the communities under the second
project. Currently SENASA contracted out the collection of the loans with a financial
entity with offices in a large number of communities. It is too early to judge the
effectiveness of this new arrangement.

3. B Promotion of associations of juntas

This project component was satisfactorily implemented as SENASA promoted and
helped create 8 associations of juntas, which at present have 320 affiliated juntas.
SENASA helped in the creation of the associations by grant financing of vehicles, pumps
and tools. SENASA also provided training to the staff of the associations.

The associations of juntas had their origin in SENASA's concern about its own capacity
to provide direct technical assistance to the growing number of juntas at increasing
distances from Asuncion. The role of the association of juntas is then to work together
with SENASA in assisting the juntas in discharging their administrative and technical
responsibilities. The associations of juntas are expected to be financially self-sustainable
through monthly contributions from the associated juntas and through charges for
services provided. The financial viability of this approach has yet to be proven, as the
associations have not yet become self-sustaining and demonstrated to their associates that
they can add value in return for their monthly contributions. However, the existing
associations have provided support to SENASA in identifying juntas that require direct
attention from SENASA and those that can be assisted through the associations with
SENASA's support.

3. C Pilot program for private providers

This pilot program was highly satisfactorily implemented in quantitative, institutional and
organizational terms. The number of systems built ­ six systems serving 10 communities
-- exceeded appraisal estimates of five systems. The population served amounts to
28,000 inhabitants. The PAD does not include an estimate of population to be served and
thus no comparison is possible between actual and appraisal estimates.

The approach used by SENASA to attract bidders was an innovative output-based
subsidy. Under this approach, SENASA began to explore ways to move from financing
inputs (typically fixed assets) to financing outputs (services provided or results achieved)
to ensure the best use of public funds while achieving development objectives.

The program was implemented in two phases so that lessons from the first phase could be
incorporated in the design of the second. This phased approach allowed the project to
seek answers to a number of questions, including the following:

    · Quality and scope of services. What service quality and characteristics would be
       required?



                                             35

    · Incentive structure. How could private providers be enticed to serve the targeted
        communities with a mandate for universal or near universal access?

    · Subsidy design. If public subsidies were needed, how could they be structured so
        as to minimize the cost to SENASA and the community while maximizing the
        likelihood of sustainable service?

    · Legal, regulatory and contractual framework. Who should have the regulatory
        responsibility for tariffs and service quality? How should that responsibility be
        reflected in contracts?

The bidders were local consortia made up of engineering firms and "aguateros" (informal
providers of water supply services). A rigorous comparison of the costs per connection
under the conventional water systems built by SENASA and the ones built by private
providers is not available. However, a rough comparison between the average costs of
systems built by SENASA in communities with similar population size as the ones built
by the private providers suggests that the costs may be very similar under both
approaches. This is an issue which deserves further analysis, but communities have
stated their preference of having a specialized private operator managing their water
service than some volunteers from the community. The initial tariffs levels are about the
same under both approaches, as they are set by SENASA in the bidding documents.

For complex systems like the one for Nanawa-Beteretecue-Chacoí and Falcon, the use of
the OBA financing scheme generated some resource savings for the Government.
According to the design cost estimates under the traditional model the Government would
have made an upfront payment of 70 percent of total project cost (US$ 560,000), with the
OBA scheme Government had to pay only US$392,000 (the unit subsidy of US$196 for
2,000 connections). According to the financial policy, SENASA would only be required
to co-finance 40 percent of the investment cost or US$ 160 per connection, and
Government will recover 30 percent or US$ 120 per connection that the junta would pay
back in 10 years. In practice the financial cost for SENASA of that 30 percent of the loan
to the juntas is much higher as juntas take longer than 10 years in repaying their loans
with no interest. The OBA model takes the financial pressure of SENASA in the initial
construction phase and shares the financial risks of the loan with the private sector,
allowing Government to have a higher investment capacity to construct additional
systems in parallel

The Bank has documented the results of this pilot and published these results in stand-
alone Bank's publications or in boxes in Bank and other publications on small water
sector providers. See Annex 9. This has been a groundbreaking approach partially due
to the perception that the private sector is only interested in large, rich cities. In this case,
local private entrepreneurs were not only willing to provide services but to invest in small
towns based on the incentive structure designed.           This experience has been very
important for the sector in Paraguay, as it has provided evidence of the possibilities with
public-private partnerships, which is being considered in urban areas.



                                              36

3. D National rural water and sanitation program

This project component was satisfactorily implemented, as SENASA hired consultants
under the project to help in the development of the entity's operational strategy, including
a diagnosis of the sector, SENASA's organization and role, and a tentative investment
plan through 2010. An important element of the plan was the recommendation of a
unified financing policy for the rural water supply sector.

Following up on the recommendation of SENASA's consultants, the Government
established a Technical Committee with participation of several government ministries
and agencies. Based on the recommendation of the Committee, which was assisted by a
Bank-financed consultant, the government issued in 2004 a decree with the new financial
policy. This new financial policy helped to introduce discipline in the financing of rural
water supply projects by different national and international agencies.

Component 4. Project administration support

The project financed consultants hired by SENASA to carry out engineering designs,
social promotion and construction supervision. The project also financed the design and
implementation of information systems and vehicle and equipments for project
administration.   The project support for monitoring project inputs and outputs was
satisfactory. The project did provide support for developing SENASA's capacity to
monitor progress toward project objectives such as a reduction in the incidence of water
related diseases (outcome in the CAS objective) and the increase in coverage of water
and sanitation in project areas (key performance indicator of project development
objectives). The latter assistance was provided within the context of the preparation of a
follow-up operation and the results and not yet available.




                                             37

Annex 3 Economic Analysis

The project's development objective was the rapid increase of water supply and
sanitation coverage in the rural areas. This economic assessment is mainly based on
Component 1: Constructing and Expanding Water Supply Systems, and on two
subprojects that were constructed using private sector participation. Component 1 aimed
at increasing the provision of water supply services to smaller, impoverished rural
communities throughout the country. Economic and financial analyses were carried out to
determine the ex-post cost-benefit for a sample of 18 representative communities
financed under the project.

For this purpose a survey of 48 communities (3.190 observations) was designed and
executed to determinate the demand for water in these communities. With an estimation
of a demand curve for water consumption in rural areas, a detailed economic cost-benefit
analysis was performed for a sample of 18 projects. The major benefits of these projects
are the improved water services received by approximately 90.425 beneficiaries of these
18 small communities. These include direct user benefits: resource services (time savings
and savings that result from the elimination of individual water treatment (e.g. the cost
for boiling water), and benefits from increased water consumption estimated by the
willingness to pay for increased consumption, for user who without the project would use
less effective and more costly alternatives such as build their own pond, take water from
the river, bottled water, etc.

Conceptual basis of assessing economic benefits

In rural areas, consumers use water for drinking, cooking, bathing, washing and
productive uses, such as cooking for sales, construction and so forth. A distinction
between residential and commercial users is not made. The water quality required
depends on the purpose or use. Brackish water might be acceptable for washing but not
for drinking. People in the rural areas rely on a variety of traditional sources, such as
rivers, ponds, springs and rain water. Both the quality and price (time) of water from
these sources are different, and each water source serves different needs. When
alternative sources, such as wells, boreholes, and piped water systems become available,
they are potential substitutes for water from other sources.

The incremental quantity of water supplied under a project can be divided into two parts:
one part replaces the previous sources and quantity of water used. The other part is a net
increase in water consumption. In this context, the benefit of the first part is equal to the
savings of economic costs of consumers who no longer use the former water sources such
as ponds. These include time savings, reduced costs for alternative purification methods
such as boiling the water, substitution of more costly sources such as bottled water and
water tankers, and reduced costs on health related expenditures due to water borne
diseases. The benefit of the second part is equal to the area below the demand curve
between the with-project and without-project use of each consumer. This water demand
was estimated with the variables from the survey.




                                            38

Methodology and assumptions

A detailed economic ex-post cost-benefit analysis was made for the 18 subprojects
identified on the pilot phase of project.          This sample represents different types of
technologic options to be financed and all major regions of the country. The size range of
the systems analyzed was between 418 to 1.728 connections, (in all cases households
expressed their preference for a house connection, and so there is a 1 to 1 relation
between number of households and estimated number of connections in each
community).

To estimate the benefits for increased water consumption due to a better quality, more
reliable and lower cost water service provided by the project, a profile of consumption
patterns which indicate the quantity of water used and the amount of time and/or money
spent for water from different sources. This data was collected by applying surveys to
communities with water services and selected from the group of communities where
metering was available. The benefits for resource savings were estimated from the
surveys of project communities, basically savings of build a new pond and other costs
(monetary and not monetary) reported in the interviews. Based on the survey it can be
expected that where treatment/purification mechanisms are in place, households would
substitute most of other sources consumption for new piped water source. Health benefits
known to users are captured in their willingness to pay for good quality water.

The typical costs included in the analysis were: (i) Row material national and imported,
(ii) capital investment costs, (iii) recurrent costs (operations and maintenance), and (iv)
labor cost of the system. All transfers including taxes and subsidies are excluded from the
analysis. All costs included in the economic analysis were adjusted to reflect economic
prices using conversion factors calculated by Paraguay's Central Bank.

Table 1: Results of the Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Ex-Post Sample for
Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project


                                                                                    Average      EIRR Ex-Ante
Community served                   District        Department   NPV (12%)  EIRR
                                                                                 cost/connection 1997 (10%)

TUCANGUA CORDILLERA                ALTOS           CORDILLERA     $62,292  43%            $64.0
VILLA LAS MERCEDES                 TOBATI          CORDILLERA     $69,472  73%            $53.3
YBU CIERVO CUA - MATIAUDA      SAN BERNARDINO      CORDILLERA    ($11,590) 10%            $64.0
SANTO DOMINIGO                     TOBATI          CORDILLERA    ($15,827)  7%            $53.3
PIRAPO CENTRO                      PIRAPO           ITAPUA        $71,132  49%           $170.6
BARRIO OBRERO - HOHENAU II        HOHENAU           ITAPUA        $94,468  47%           $106.6
TAJY LOMA                        CARAPEGUA         PARAGUARI     $182,163  70%           $117.3
CERRO FRENTE                     QUYQUYHO          PARAGUARI      $15,662  16%            $65.9
ARAZATY                      SAN ROQUE GONZALEZ    PARAGUARI      $64,502  39%           $117.3
MENDIETA CUE                       QUIINDY         PARAGUARI      $37,058  23%           $170.6
JUAN E. O^LEARY- AMPLIACIÓN    JUAN E. O`LEARY    ALTO PARANÁ    $295,868  58%            $74.6
COL. CERRO LARGO                 SANTA RITA       ALTO PARANÁ     $47,237  18%           $159.9
KM 14 MONDAY- PART. PRIVADA     MINGA GUAZU       ALTO PARANÁ    $192,396  56%            $95.5
KM 14 ACARAY- PART. PRIVADA     MINGA GUAZU       ALTO PARANÁ     $72,704  26%            $95.5
ESQUINA GAUCHA                   SANTA RITA       ALTO PARANÁ     $10,272  15%           $277.2
CAMPIÑAS VERDE                   SANTA RITA       ALTO PARANÁ    ($53,093)  0%           $191.9
JUGUA ÑARO                           ITA            CENTRAL       $40,818  24%           $106.6
CURUPICAYTY                          ITA            CENTRAL      $155,568  45%            $85.3
Average                                                          $73,950   34%           $115.0      9%
US$/PYG                                    4,690




                                                 39

Summary of ex-post cost-benefit Analysis:

The major benefits of this project are improved water services to approximately 90,425
beneficiaries in 18 rural communities in 5 departments. The main results as part of the ex-
post economic analysis of the sample are presented in Table 1. Of the 18 subprojects
evaluated, only 3 were economically unfeasible, with EIRR ranging from 0% to 73%
with an average return of 34% and an average NPV of US$ 73,950. The results of the ex-
post analysis compares favorably to the average results from the ex-ante economic
analysis made at appraisal in May, 1997 for 8,000 households in 30 communities. The
EIRR for the new systems' component was 10% in the base case scenario based on cash
benefits only and it was 18% for the same component using cash befits and institutional
strengthening using a discount rate of 10%. The overall result of the ex-post analysis of
the project is substantially positive base on the sample analyzed.

While the average rate of return per sub-project and the overall economic net present
value were higher than expected at appraisal, the results of the ex-post assessment led the
project team to revise the economic assessment methodology in the Operational Manual
for the new project to simplify its application and allow for easier screening of
economically unviable sub-projects.




                                              40

Annex 4 Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
     Names                   Title             Unit     Responsibility/Specialist
Lending and
Supervision/ICR
Luis V. Chang     TTL (Lending)                         TTL 1995 - 1997
Alex Bakalian     Lead Water Resource Spec. MNSSD       TTL 1997 - 2001
Franz R. Drees-   Sector Leader              LCSSD      TTL 2001 - 2004
Gross
Maria Angelica    Senior Economist           LCSUW      TTL 2004-present
Sotomayor
Veronica Salatino Country Officer            LCC7C
Reynaldo Pastor   Sr. Counsel                LEGLA      Lawyer
Cidalia Brocca    Finance Analyst            LOADM
Efraim Jimenez    Consultant                 LCSPT
Miguel Vargas-    Water & Sanitation Spec.   LCSUW
Ramirez
Andres Mac Gaul Sr. Procurement Specialist   LCSPT
Mariana Montiel   Sr. Counsel                LEGLA      Lawyer
Karla Chaman      Communications Officer     EXTCD
Alejandro R.      Financial Mgmt. Analyst    LCSFM
Solanot
Lene Odum         Operations Analyst         ETWWP
Jensen
Graciela S.       Social Dev. and Civil      LCSSO
Martinez          Society Specialist
Luciano Gonzalez Consultant
Michele Bruni     E.T. Consultant            EXTCD
Ignacio M.        Temporary                  LCCPY
Urrutia
Emilio Rodriguez  Consultant                            Procurement Specialist
Guido Duarte      Consultant                 LCSTR      Local Engineer
Antonio L. Blasco Sr. Financial Mgmt. Spec.
Juan      Camilo Consultant                  LCSUW      SME Specialist
Montoya
Luis Andres       Infrastructure Economist   LCSSD      M&E Specialist
Luz        Maria Consultant                             Financial Specialist
Gonzalez
Teresa Lampoglia Consultant                             Engineer
Juan Quintero     Sr. Environmental Spec.               Environmental Spec.




                                      41

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                       No. of staff weeks Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cicle       No. of staff weeks        USD Thousand (including
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY97/FY98                           32.00                                   146,446

Supervision
FY99                                                                         41,222
FY00                                24.63                                    88,496
FY01                                23.81                                    99,098
FY02                                17.2                                     74,267
FY03                                17.2                                     87,408
FY04                                17.17                                   127,749
FY05                                20.54                                   155,340
FY06                                19.91                                   107,211
FY07                                25.58                                   108,901
FY08                                7.64                                     57,825
       Total                                                                959,476




                                       42

Annex 5 Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                    43

Annex 6 Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Introduction. This is an Intensive Learning ICR. It included four workshops with
stakeholders in addition to visits to selected project sites. The workshops carried out
were the following:

   · Workshops (3) in different cities with participation of representatives of the
       associations of "juntas," the "juntas," and users.
   · Workshop with private providers of water services and representatives of their
       respective "juntas."
   · Workshop with SENASA's staff.
   · Workshop with public sector entities with responsibilities in the sector
   · Visits to project sites (6) which included interviews with representatives of:
       association of "juntas," "juntas," and indigenous communities.

The main results of the workshop are summarized below.

Workshop with the associations of "juntas," the "juntas," and users

   · Most "juntas" provide water 24 hours per day.
   · A small number of "juntas" chlorinate the water. Lack of training on chlorination
       practices.
   · A small number of "juntas" controls water quality. Laboratories only in Asuncion
       and high cost.
   · A small number of "juntas" meter water consumption.
   · The "juntas" confront technical difficulties because of fluctuations in the energy
       voltage and power outages.
   · Lack of spare parts to repair pumps.

   · Little involvement of the "juntas" in sanitation activities.
   · Health education in schools and local health centers.

   · Demonstrated leadership and commitment by the members of the "juntas."
   · Interest in continuous training programs for the members of the "juntas."
   · Interest in more women participation in the "juntas."

   · High accounts receivable in some cases.
   · Tight cash situation in most cases.
   · Not access to credit because of lack of collateral.

Workshop with private providers and representatives of the "juntas"

   · Interest in systems with growth potential.
   · Concern about illegal connections and arrears in customer's payments.




                                             44

  · The president of the "junta" as an important element for the smooth relations
     operator-community.
  · Concern about the approach ERSSAN will take in setting tariffs.

Workshop with SENASA's staff

  · Need of incorporating additional qualified staff.
  · Insufficient number of vehicles and budget for traveling expenses.
  · Need of ensuring a continuous flow of funds for investment, which come almost
     entirely from external assistance.
  · Need to streamline procedures through increased autonomy from the Ministry of
     Health.
  · The resources from the external assistance have allowed the incorporation of new
     technologies in several areas of the entity.

Workshop with other public sector entities (Ministry of Finance; STP; DIGESA;
ERSSAN; ESSAP; SENASA)

  · Tariff policies should ensure sustainability of the water and sanitation systems.
  · The rural water supply and sanitation sector requires subsidies to grow.
  · DIGESA and ERSSAN should coordinate their roles so as not to overburden the
     "juntas."
  · ERSSAN supports the associations of "juntas" and considers that they have a
     significant potential for further rural sector development.
  · Need to provide strong support to the development of the associations of "juntas."




                                           45

Annex 7 Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments on Draft ICR

Table of Contents


Part A ­ Project Description

  a. Project Overview
  b. Objectives
  c. Implementation Strategy
  d. Project Components
  e. Original Goals

Part B ­ Goals Achieved

   a. Quantitative Data Tables
   b. Important Aspects of the Procurement Process
   c. Strengths and Weaknesses of the Project

Part C ­ Comments

Part D ­ Recommendations

Part E ­ SENASA's and Bank's performance during implementation




                                        46

Part A ­ Project Description

Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project ­ IBRD IV
Loan No.: 4222 PA and 4223 PA

a.      Project Overview

Law No. 1,280 of October 27, 1997

Financial Institution: World Bank

Loans 4222-PA and 4223-PA: US $40,000,000 (Forty million dollars).

Counterpart: US$15,000,000 (Fifteen million dollars)

Area of Influence: the entire country

Commencement of the Project: 1999

Initial Completion of the Project: December 31, 2003

Extension: until June 30, 2007


  b.    Objectives
           Primary Objective
   Increase water supply and sanitation services coverage in urban areas with populations
   of fewer than 10,000 inhabitants and in rural areas.

           Secondary Objective
   Strengthen the capacity of the National Environmental Sanitation Service [Servicio
   Nacional de Sanitación Ambiental SENASA] and the sanitation committees [juntas de
   saneamiento] in order to attain the primary objective.

c.      Implementation Strategy
    Community participation in the financing, construction, operation, maintenance, and
    administration of the systems, converting communities into service providers.
    Outsourcing of system implementation and service provision activities.
    Private sector participation in the financing, construction, and operation of water
    supply systems.
    Capacity building (SENASA and sanitation committees) to improve the management
    capacity for current and future project implementation.

d.      Project Components
        · Part A ­ Water Supply
        · Part B ­ Removal of Wastewater
        · Part C ­ Capacity Building
        · Part D ­ Project Administration

Part A ­ Water Supply
        New Systems


                                             47

       Expansion of Systems
       Water Supply Systems for Indigenous Populations

Part B ­ Removal of Wastewater
       Sanitary Sewerage
       Individual On-site Sanitation Solutions

Part C ­ Capacity Building
       Water Supply Systems with Private Sector Participation
       Strengthening of SENASA and the Sanitation Committees

e.      Original Goals

Water Supply
       New Systems:
       Construction of 330 new systems
       Expansion of Systems:
       Construction of 10 systems
       Water Supply Systems for Indigenous Populations:
       Construction of 35 systems

Removal of Wastewater
       Sanitary Sewerage:
       Construction of 10 systems
       Individual On-site Sanitation Solutions
       Construction of 21,500 latrines

Capacity Building
       Water Supply Systems with Private Sector Participation
       Construction of systems for 5 communities.

Part B ­ Goals achieved

a. Quantitative Data Tables. The project is far advanced in terms of the attainment of
   the primary objective, in several of its components, and has even surpassed the
   original goals in traditional components, such as: (a) new water supply systems in
   both the rural and indigenous communities; (b) individual excreta disposal solutions
   through the construction of pit latrines in dispersed communities; and (c) new water
   supply systems, built with private sector participation in the financing and operation
   of the systems (private operators).

However, the following project components were less successful: (a) expansion of the
existing water supply systems; and (b) sanitary sewerage systems. In the latter case, the
original goals were not met.




                                            48

 The table below makes a comparison between goals set and goals achieved:


                                      1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007  TOTAL

                   No. (Estimated)    66     66     66     66     66     0      0             -      330

NEW SYSTEMS        No. (Implemented)  0      22     32     53     40     110    112    100    27     496
                   Pop. (Estimated)   62,000 62,000 62,000 62,000 62,000 0      0      52,280        310,000

                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      26,304 33,335 34,870 25,812 46,338 44,645 42,210 10,785 264,299
                   No. (Estimated)    0      3      3      4      0      0      0      0             10


EXPANSION          No. (Implemented)  0      0      1      0      0      2      2      2      2      7
                   Pop. (Estimated)   0      4,200  4,200  5,600  0      0      0      0             14,000

                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      950    0      0      2,280  1,000         3,370  7,600
                   No. (Estimated)    7      7      7      7      7      0      0      0             35
INDIGENOUS         No. (Implemented)  0      0      0      20     0      15     36     21            92
COMMUNITIES        Pop.(Estimated)    3,800  3,800  3,800  3,800  3,800  0      0      0             19,000
                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      0      4,613  0      3,613  9,954  4,070         22,250
                   No. (Estimated)    0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0             0
INDIGENOUS         No. (Implemented)  0      0      0      0      0      26     0      0             26
EXPANSION          Pop.(Estimated)    0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0             0
                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      0      0      0      4,613  0      0             4,613
                   No. (Estimated)    0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0             0
INDIGENOUS         No. (Implemented)  0      0      0      3      0      7      0      0             10
REHABILITATION     Pop. (Estimated)   0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0             0
                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      0      654    0      1,868  0      0             2,522
                   No. (Estimated)    0      3      3      4      0      0      0                    7

SEWERAGE           No. (Implemented)  0      0      0      1      0      1      1                    3
                   Pop. (Estimated)   0      12,000 12,000 16,000 0      0      0                    40,000
                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      0      11,345 0      8,658  5,200                25,200

LATRINE SLABS      Unit (Estimated)   4,000  4,000  4,500  4,500  4,500  0      0                    21,500
                   Unit (Implemented) 0      0      3,000  10,000 0      8,500 1750                  23,250
                   No. (Estimated)    1      1      1      1      1      0      0                    5
PRIVATE            No. (Implemented)  0      0      0      0      4             2                    6
PARTICIPATION      Pop. (Estimated)   0      0      0      0      0      0      0                    0
                   Pop. (Implemented) 0      0      0      0      7,895  0      19,730               27,625


 With regard to attainment of the secondary objective, the various components were
 successfully carried out during project implementation.

 Important Aspects of the Procurement Process

      The process shows that the project has been executed with an acceptable degree of
        integration between the personnel in charge of its implementation and SENASA's
        regular staff.



                                                49

   The outsourcing of a high percentage of project implementation activities has helped
      to fast track the achievement of the goals. It has also facilitated other operations
      financed by other loans.
   While SENASA has been assigned responsibility for the administrative and financial
      activities required for the project, there were still some bureaucratic hurdles to
      overcome, and at times counterpart funds were not received on time. This aspect of
      administration handled by the staff of SENASA, facilitated capacity building,
      thereby preparing the institution for bigger operations in the future.
   The inclusion of the private sector in the investment, construction, administration,
      and systems maintenance operation (Pilot Program), has been a major achievement
      and serves as an excellent future model for increased service coverage for a
      considerable number of urban centers with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants.
   In terms of procurement, the project emerged during the Government's
      implementation of several important initiatives, such as:
          The establishment of the National Procurement Office [Oficina Nacional de
          Contratación] which disseminates information on the procurement of goods and
          services by the government, using various media; and
          Integrity Pacts, designed to strengthen the public procurement anticorruption
          strategy which seeks to clarify the ethical obligations of participants involved in
          procurement processes.

b. Strengths and Weaknesses of the Project

Major Difficulties

  Implementing agency's (SENASA's) insufficient capacity for proper and timely
  management, owing to the:
       Limited number of qualified technicians;
       Lack of a suitable information system;
       Low wages which were a disincentive to commitment during the required
          period;
       Lack of timely inputs from the engineering firm, in order to produce
          documents and reports; and
       The country's internal administrative bureaucracy is cumbersome from the
          standpoint of procurement and payment procedures.
  Lack of capacity on the part of Beneficiary Communities to fulfill the participation
  requirements which include:
       Cash contributions for financing;
       Contribution of labor to build the distribution network and other elements of
          the system; and
       Contribution to the infrastructure of the works site (well, tank).
  Failure of the World Bank to provide more direct assistance, in terms of procurement.
  It has no office in Paraguay and everything is managed from Washington.
  Lack of strength (technical capacity) of service providers in the local market, both
  construction companies as well as consultants (the project has improved the market's
  capacity to meet demand).



                                            50

Greatest Achievements

   Significant increase in water and sanitation service coverage.
   Strengthening of the management model based on the strategy of community
   participation in the design of services, financing, operation, and maintenance of water
   supply and sanitation systems.
   In the context of the project, the State decided to establish the standard policy for the
   financing of the water supply service for urban areas with fewer than 10,000
   inhabitants and rural areas (scope of SENASA's operations).
   A new strategy has been implemented to improve the water sector's financing
   capacity, with private sector participation in the financing and operation of the
   service.
   Implementation capacity has been improved through the strategy of outsourcing
   activities (design of systems, community-based promotion, construction and
   supervision of works).

Part C ­ Comments

The project was particularly important for the development of the rural water and
sanitation sector; in fact, in terms of financial scope, objectives, and goals, it is the
biggest to date. At the end of the implementation period (year 2007), and assessing the
progress made using such financing as IBRD I, IBRD II, and IBRD III from the World
Bank and financing from similar financial institutions, the project achieved: (a) a water
service coverage level of approximately 41 percent (60 percent of the country's
population); and (b) a significant increase in sanitation service, which includes
approximately 23,250 beneficiary families, through on-site solutions (pit latrine), and
three sanitary sewerage systems, benefiting approximately 29,000 families.

Apart from the primary aspect of the aforementioned expansion of water and sanitation
service coverage, there have been major achievements in terms of capacity building,
which focuses primarily on improving SENASA's institutional capacity, as evidenced by
the management of IBRD IV implementation and other projects implemented during the
same period.

In addition, SENASA's operating capacity will facilitate the management of new and
bigger operations in the future.     Improvements were seen in the:         (1) training of
SENASA's permanent staff; (2) provision of transportation for field supervisors; (3)
provision of well drilling equipment (water supply source); and (4) strengthening of the
water resources (through the creation of the aquifer monitoring system and a database for
existing wells).




                                             51

Part D ­ Recommendations

Based on SENASA's management model for the implementation of water and sanitation
services, which entails community participation through the organization known as the
"Sanitation Committee," and the experience gained, the following recommendations are
being made: (a) continue generating funds for financing, in order to increase coverage,
which is still inadequate, using the same management model; and (b) focus on
strengthening SENASA through proper restructuring. Furthermore, staff must be trained
on an ongoing basis and information and transportation equipment must also be provided
in order to improve management capacity for future operations; (c) strengthen the
sanitation committees and their associations, in order to ensure the sustainability of the
services along with a steady decrease in SENASA's intervention for operational
assistance and growth; (d) provide technical assistance and support to indigenous
communities for a longer period, in order for them to assimilate the new culture related to
water use and enhance the systems and service delivery; and (e) identify strategies that
will allow for more streamlined management with a view to a more rapid increase in
service coverage, through application of the new experience gained in the IBRD IV
implementation process. This process entails: (1) outsourcing water and sanitation service
implementation activities (community-based promotion, engineering designs, supervision
and construction of works); and (2) private sector participation in the financing,
construction, and operation of services (private operator) in order to harness the private
sector's investment resources, which will rapidly increase service coverage and also lead
to more efficient service delivery.

Part E - SENASA's and Bank's performance during implementation

A).     SENASA
        The Project has been prepared within the framework of the Government's
        economic and social development policy, to give a response to the deficit in water
        and sanitation coverage, with the objectives of: i) the rapid increase in service
        coverage; ii) to achieve the institutional development to allow improvement in the
        performance capacity for the execution of this Project and to start new operations.

        The SENASA has a directly dependent of the Ministry of Public Health and
        Social Welfare for its administrative procedures for the procurement of goods and
        services needed for the Project. It is to be noted that during project
        implementation, there were 4 Public Health Ministers and 4 SENASA Directors; a
        factor that affected the Project's implementation and lead to 2 extensions, through
        amendments to the Loan Agreement.

        The Project has been implemented in the following aspects:

        a) Physical execution of the different components, for which PDOs have been
        established. These objectives have been achieved and in some cases surpassed,
        specifically in the components of building and expanding water systems for rural
        and indigenous peoples communities, and in the pilot project for private
        participation in the financing, construction and operation of water systems in rural



                                              52

       communities. Likewise, the sanitation component which included the construction
       of individual solutions through sanitary latrines for disperse rural and indigenous
       communities has been achieved and surpassed in terms of the original goal;
       however, the construction of sewerage systems didn't reach the established
       objective as a pilot plan, due to difficulties in terms of social participation and
       environmental issues. These difficulties were ultimately overcome and three
       condominial sewerage systems were built and are now functioning. This pilot has
       installed a conscience in the country about the technical and environmental
       feasibility of similar works that could be developed in future operations.

   b) Institutional Development, in this regard, a greater performance capacity has been
   installed in the institution through the training of staff, the acquisition of technology
   and transport equipment, the improvement of the headquarters' building, and the
   creation of new community organizations to support the Juntas (Associations of
   Juntas). Moreover, through the project, the country's market for the design,
   construction, social promotion, operation and maintenance of water and sewerage
   systems has been strengthened.
   Based on the previous description, SENASA's performance is rated as satisfactory.

B).     Bank's performance

       The Project's implementation has been carried out within two main aspects:


       a) It counted with a management team based on Washington, which carried out
           at least two supervision missions per year. There are Aide Memoirs from each
           of the missions with information about SENASA, the beneficiary Juntas, and
           the evaluations conducted to the contractors of goods and services, through
           interviews and field visits to the work locations.


          The high capacity of the management team to respond to the different
          adjustments needed in terms of the technical issues, and procurement methods
          during project implementation needs to be highlighted.


       b) SENASA had assistance in financial management and procurement issues
           from the Bank's headquarters in Washington. In this regard, given that the
           project was being implemented under the previous revision modality (Bidding
           Documents), the response time for no objections was, at times, not as prompt
           as needed. This was improved in the last year of implementation by the more
           direct assistance from the Bank's team in Buenos Aires.


       Based on the previous description, the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory.




                                              53

Annex 8 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                     54

Annex 9 List of Supporting Documentation

Paraguay.    Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare. National Environmental
Sanitation Service. Loan Agreements 4222 ­ PA and 4223 ­ PA. Evaluation
[Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social.    Servicio Nacional de Sanitación
Ambiental. Convenios de Préstamo 4222 ­ PA y 4223 ­ PA. Evaluación]

Ex-Post of the Technical Area - IBRD IV Project.          Consultant: Teresa Cristina
Lampoglia. Lima, July 2007.
[Ex ­ Post del Area Técnica ­ Proyecto BIRF IV.          Consultora: Teresa Cristina
Lampoglia. Lima, Julio 2007.]

Paraguay.    Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare. National Environmental
Sanitation Service. Review of SENASA Strategy. Consultant: Eurostudies-Hydrocontrol
Consortium Association. March 2001.
[Paraguay.    Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social.    Servicio Nacional de
Sanitación Ambiental. Revisión de la Estrategia de SENASA. Consultor: Consorcio
Asociación Euroestudios ­ Hidrocontrol. Marzo 2001.]

Paraguay.    Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare.     National Environmental
Sanitation Service. Ex-Post Social Impact Assessment of Water and Sanitation Systems-
IBRD IV Project.
[Paraguay.    Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social.    Servicio Nacional de
Sanitation Ambiental.    Evaluación del Impacto Social de los Sistemas de Agua y
Sanitación Ex ­ Post del Proyecto BIRF IV.]

World Bank. Paraguay Country Assistance Strategy FY97-00. March 1997.

World Bank. Paraguay Country Assistance Strategy 2004/2007. December 2003.

World Bank.      Paraguay Water Supply and Sanitation. Policy Note.       June 2003.
[Paraguay Suministro de Agua y Sanitation. Nota de Política. Junio 2003].

World Bank. Ex-Post Review. Physical Inspection of the Works. April 2007. [Revisión
Ex - Post. Inspección Física de Obras. Abril 2007.]

World Bank. Lessons learned from a Pilot Project in Paraguay. Output-based Aid in the
Rural Water Sector. Water and Sanitation Program. June 2004. [Lecciones de un
Proyecto Piloto en Paraguay. La asistencia en función de resultados (Output-based Aid)
en el sector de agua potable rural. Programa de Agua y Sanitation. Junio 2004.]

World Bank. OBA approaches. Output-Based Aid in Water. Lessons in Implementation
from a Pilot in Paraguay. Note Number 07, May 2005.

ICR Mission to Paraguay. Notes from Stakeholder Consultations. [Apuntes de Opiniones
de Consultas a Stakeholders.] October 2007.



                                          55

