Document ofL
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2607-CM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
August 9, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reeipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CAMEROON
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT            =           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                     =           CFAF 220 1/
CFAF 1,000               =          US$4.6
CFAF 1,000,000           -          US$4,545
1/ Floating exchange rate.
ABBREVIATIONS
CAPME    =   Centre National d'Assistance pour Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises
CCCE     =   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CDC      =   Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK)
DEW      =   Directorate of Energy and Water, Ministry of Mines and
Energy
KfW      =   Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau (WG)
MINEH    =   Ministry of Equipment and Housing
MINEP    =   Ministry of Economy and Planning
MINMEN   =   Ministry of Mines and Energy
SNEC     =   Societe Nationale des Eaux du  Cameroun
SONEL    =   Societe Nationale d'Electricite du Cameroun
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CAMEROON
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:                 United Republic of Cameroon
Beneficiary:              Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun
Amount:                   US$21 million
Terms:                    20 years including five years of grace at
annual interest rate of 7.9 percent.
Co-financixig:            Commonwealth Development Corporation loan of
US$15 million equivalent (E 6.75 million), with
interest at 8.5 percent, repayable over fifteen
yeears, including five years of grace.
Relending Cerms:          US$18.1 million of the proceeds of the loan would be
relent to SNEC on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan except that the Government would accept
the foreign exchange risk. (The remaining US$2.9
million would be retained by Government to finance
the foreign exchange cost of studies financed in this
project).
Project Description:      The objectives of the proposed project are to: (i)
improve and extend water supply systems in 13 second-
ary centers and two major cities, Douala and Yaounde,
with particular emphasis on low income areas, as
a fiirst major step toward achieving the Government's
sector program of 100 percent potable water services
in urban areas in 1990; (ii) lay the ground work
for organized urban development planning for Douala
and Yaounde; (iii) initiate a pilot public health
education project in order to ensure that the public
health benefits which should derive from the project
are realized; and (iv) strengthen the organization
of the water supply sector. The project consists of
six main components: water supply systems for 13
secondary centers; expansion and reinforcement of
Douala water systems; expansion and reinforcement of
Yaounde water systems; master plan studies for water
supply, sewerage and drainage for Douala and Yaounde;
consulting services for hygiene education; and a
program of specific actions to be undertaken by SNEC
document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to strengthen its management and organization,
including provision of training and management
advisors for SNEC. The project faces no special
risks.
Estimated Costs 1/                                                        Foreign
US$ Million        as x
Local Foreign Total of Total
A. Water supply systems
in 13 secondary
centers                    5.4   12.1    17.5       69
B.  Douala reinforcement       3.1    7.3    10.4       70
C.  Yaounde reinforcement    0.5    1.7        2.2      77
D. Additional engineering,
technical assistance
and service promotion
works for SNEC             0.8    2.0      2.8      71
E. Studies and supplies
for Government             0.9    2.1      3.0      70
Total base cost           10.7   25.2    35.9       70
Physical contingencies   1.6    3.8        5.4      70
Price contingencies        3.1    7.0    10.1       69
TOTAL                     15.4   36.0    51.4       70
Financing Plan:                                         US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total
IBRD                     -      21.0    21.0
CDC                       -     15.0    15.0
SNEC                   14.2       -      14.2
Government               1.2      -       1.2
TOTAL                15.4    36.0    51.4
Retroactive Financing:   Consultants to carry out the master plan and final
design studies have been contracted and expatriate
technical assistance is being recruited, both under
1/   Because of exemption from taxes on water supply works, proposed costs do
not include taxes.



- iii -
terms and conditions approved by the Bank. To avoid
delays in project execution, SNEC and the Government
have prefinanced these contracts and it is proposed
th,at an amount not to exceed US$300,000 would be
financed retroactively under this project.
Estimated                                            US$ Million
Disbursements:          Fiscal Year        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual             0.5    3.2    6.0    6.0    5.3
Cumulative         0.5    3.7    9.7   15.7   21.0
Rate of Return:           7 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Relport No. 2457-CM dated August 8, 1979.
Map:                       IBRD 14236






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON FOR A
SECO]ND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the follow;ing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$21 million to the United Republic of Cameroon
to help finance the Second Water Supply Project. The IBRD loan would have
a term of 20 years including five years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent
per annum. US$18.1 nillion of the proceeds of the loan would be relent
to SNEC on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to finance major
project components to be executed by SNEC. The remaining US$2.9 million
would be retained by the Government for other components. The Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) has agreed to finance the project jointly with
the Bank, with a loan to SNEC for the equivalent of US$15 million with a term
of 15 years including five years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "United Republic of Cameroon Economic Memorandum"
(No. 1798-CM), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978.
Its principal findings and conclusions, updated by missions that visited
Cameroon in April and June 1979, are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.        Cameroon is one of Africa's most diversified countries with a wide
range of ecological conditions, ethnic groups and cultures. Cameroon was a
federation until the United Republic, which unified the anglophone western
and francophone eastern parts of the country, was established in 1972. The
Government has concentrated on the establishment and maintenance of national
unity between the eastern and relatively small western parts of the country
and between the sahelian zone in the north with muslim traditions and the
southern tropical regions.
4.        Cam1roon has a population of about 8.0 million and covers an area
of 475,000 km . The main opportunities for development lie in the expansion
of agricultural production, including forestry, and the processing of agri-
cultural and forestry products for export. Soils and climatic conditions
permit cultivation of a wide range of crops, and the southeast contains large
untapped timber resources. The north holds promising potential for livestock
development. Offshore oil and gas exploration has yielded modest results.
Trade, transportation and transit services are other important economic



- 2 -
activities. Cameroon's main economic centers are separated by vast under-
populated areas; furthermore, the country's transport facilities also serve
landlocked Chad. As a result, a large port and adequate inland transporta-
tion infrastructure are essential for promoting agriculture, forestry and
industry, and strengthening Cameroon's role as a regional trade center.
Past Performance
5.        During the Second Plan period (1966-71), GDP increased at a high
rate of 7.6 percent per annum but declined during the Third Plan period
(1971-76) to only 2.5 percent per annum. During 1977 and 1978, the first
two years of the Fourth Plan period, growth of GDP recovered to 5-6 percent
per year. Population growth is estimated at about 1.8 percent per annum in
the 1960s, about 1.9 percent until the mid 1970s and about 2.3 percent from
1975-80. Per capita GNP reached about US$350 in 1978.
6.        The high growth in output and income during the latter half of
the 1960s was attributable to a number of favorable factors. Agriculture,
accounting for about one-third of GDP, increased at a rate of 5.5 percent
per annum during 1966-71. Most agricultural crops, livestock, fishing and
forestry experienced high growth rates thanks to favorable supply and demand
conditions such as high producer prices, high domestic income growth, and
rapid economic expansion abroad. For example, because of a high level of
new planting during the 1950s and early 1960s, Cameroon was able to con-
tinue raising cocoa and coffee output throughout the 1960s, although the
problem of the increasing age of the cocoa and coffee trees was already
becoming apparent. In addition, the Government was able to maintain adequate
cocoa producer prices even when export prices dropped because of built-up
reserves in the cocoa stabilization fund. Manufacturing and mining, account-
ing for 11 percent of GDP, increased at 12 percent per annum during 1966-71
mainly on account of the rapid development of import substitution industries,
particularly manufactured consumer goods, facilitated by the high rate of
domestic income growth and the availability of foreign exchange for the pur-
chase of inputs and intermediate goods. The rapid agricultural and indus-
trial expansion was accompanied by the growth of construction activities,
public administration and other services.
7.        In contrast, during the Third Plan period, growth in output and
income fell off as domestic policy did not entirely offset the impact of
unfavorable external factors. Despite an annual rate of expansion at 6 per-
cent of staple crops in response to rising demand and high prices in urban
areas, agricultural growth declined to a mere 3.6 percent a year. This poor
growth record was attributable to a sharp reduction in the rate of expansion
of commercial crops (1.3 percent a year, or less than one-tenth of the pre-
ceding rate). The production of cocoa and arabica coffee, accounting for
about 55 percent of commercial crops, actually declined, since cocoa and
coffee producer prices failed to keep up with those of competing food cash
crops; the foreign supported fertilizer subsidy program for arabica coffee
was terminated; Government services to counter the black pod disease of the
cocoa trees were inadequate; and climatic conditions were unfavorable in some



years. The other main commercial crops: cotton, rubber and oil palm, per-
formed better, the last facilitated by two plantation projects assisted
by the Bank and other co-donors. Growth in commercial forestry production
dropped because of reduced Western European demand, lower domestic construc-
tion activity and some translportation bottlenecks, while the drought cut
growth in livestock production (mainly cattle in the north) from 7.2 per-
cent to 3.3 percent a year.
8.        In other sectors during 1971-76, growth in manufacturing slowed,
following the first wave of import substitution; construction activity fell
off, while other services (mainly trade and transport) hardly grew at all
with a deceleration in exports, near stagnation in imports and the low growth
in real income throughout the economy. With rising costs and expanded claims
on available public revenues, real growth in public administration was also
reduced below the 1966-71 rate.
9.        Since 1977-78, the Cameroon economy has experienced a recovery
attributable to record world prices for its principal export crops and the
response of cocoa and coffee farmers to increased producer prices. Higher
government revenues, particularly from the export sector, has allowed a rise
in the investment rate, and this expansion along with higher farm incomes
led to substantial growth in manufacturing, food crops, construction, trade
and other services.
Investment and Savings
10.       Luring the Second Plan period (1966-71), the investment rate, in-
cluding increases in stocks, exceeded 16 percent of GDP, and gross domestic
savings and gross national savings were respectively 13.4 and 12.6 percent
of GDP. Fcreign resources financed about 33 percent of investment during
this period. During the Third Plan period, despite slow income growth, the
investment rate increased to 18.1 percent of GDP. Gross domestic savings
and gross national savings rose to 16.4 and 13.9 percent of GDP, but debt
service increased by 60 percent from a small base. External resources there-
fore contirnued to finance about one-third of total investment during this
period. Th,e higher savings rate in a period of slow output growth was made
possible by a drastic reduction in the real growth of consumption, particu-
larly private consumption, to less than 2 percent per annum. One of the
prices paid. for the substantial improvement in savings was, however, a lim-
itation on farmers' earnings in tree crops, providing insufficient incen-
tives for f'armers to raise output and make new plantings to maintain and
expand production capacity -- a situation that has serious implications for
the longer term future of these crops. The maintenance of a high investment
rate during this period was offset by a decline in the efficiency of invest-
ment. Some! reduction in capital productivity was attributable to projects,
such as in oil exploration and transport infrastructure, which would lead
to production increases only a number of years later, and social infrastruc-
ture investments, which would improve welfare but have a limited impact on
output. During 1977/78, the investment rate reached an average of 22.8 per-
cent of GDE'. Thanks largely to the record cocoa and coffee prices, gross
domestic savings and gross national savings increased further to 19.9 and
19 percent respectively of GDP. As a result, external resources financed
only about one-fourth of total investment during these two years.



-4
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
11.       Budgetary revenue amounted to 16.6 and 17.2 percent of GDP during
1966-71 and 1971-76, respectively, while public savings after debt service
as a percentage of total public investment declined from about 39 percent
in 1966-71 to about 36 percent in 1971-76. During 1977-78, the share of
budgetary revenue in GDP increased to an average of 19.4 percent. The bal-
ance of payments did not become a problem until 1974-76. Imports increased
rapidly in 1975 and 1976 as a result of world-wide inflation and heavy public
development expenditure, especially in capital goods, and the decline in agri-
cultural exports, particularly exports of cocoa and timber, resulted in size-
able current account deficits. The bulk of the current account deficits was
financed by net capital inflows but a substantial drawdown of international
reserves also took place in 1975. Therefore, net official international re-
serves decreased from more than two months in 1974 to less than one month of
imports in 1975. In 1977 and 1978, exports recovered substantially (by 35
and 18 percent) but imports also increased (by 28 and 22 percent) because of
economic recovery and expanded investment. Gross official international re-
serves were rebuilt in 1976, 1977 and 1978, in part by the use of IMF credit
(Oil Facility and Compensatory Financing in 1976), but net official interna-
tional reserves continued to be less than one month of imports at end-1978.
This was a low level by international standards but still acceptable consider-
ing Cameroon' s membership in the Central African Monetary Union.
Development Issues and Prospects
12.       Cameroon's main medium- and long-term potential lies in the devel-
opment, through both industrial plantations and smallholders, of a diversi-
fied agricultural sector, comprising export crops and domestic food crops
to feed the growing urban population and replace imports, particularly of
grains. Implementation of such a strategy depends on an appropriate mix of
public intervention and support as well as price and policy measures to stimu-
late private initiative; net financial returns to the public sector are more
difficult to capture than in a less diversified foreign trade-oriented strat-
egy. Factors that further complicate the agricultural development effort in
Cameroon are the extensive dispersion of its main economic and population
centers, its regional and institutional diversity, the competition between
export and cash food crops for the dwindling agricultural labor in some parts
of the country, the dependence of a substantial part of public revenue and
savings on cocoa and coffee, and the limited availability of skilled agri-
cultural agents and administrators. Through its technical assistance and
education projects and through its normal project work, the Bank is supporting
Cameroon's effort in manpower training and development in the agricultural
services, as well as in other sectors. In industry the Government has moved
to channel more financial resources for investment directly through the public
sector, in addition to the indirect support provided by tax incentives and
other measures, which have been in existence for many years. The Government
has actively participated in a Bank study of the manufacturing sector whose
results will help to identify bottlenecks and opportunities to develop exist-
ing as well as new industrial activities.



- 5 -
13.       The outlook for agricultural and industrial growth during 1976-81
is quite favorable. It is based on the maintenance of cocoa output at near
the previous peak level; recovery of robusta coffee; continuing expansion for
arabica coffee; increased production of most other commercial and food crops,
as well as of livestock; and expansion of commercial forestry production.
Growth of :industrial production is expected to derive from existing and ex-
panded manufacturing facilities (particularly for food, beverages and con-
struction materials); some new industrial projects, as well as from crude
oil and new mining ventures.  Given the stepped-up production and investment
activities, a high growth rate is expected also for construction and ser-
vices.
14.       Long-term growth could be somewhat constrained by a worsening of
the terms of trade, which will make it difficult to sustain the high invest-
ment rate planned for the 1976-81 period, and by the need for prudent debt
management to ensure the country's long-term borrowing capacity. Growth
prospects will be greatly influenced by the extent to which Cameroon succeeds
in the difficult task of maiintaining and expanding the country's main tradi-
tional export crops, and the large-scale development of still unexploited
forestry resources. Results of studies on the forestry potential, forestry
sector development policy, investment plans and transport requirements, many
of which are part of Bank projects, will support the latter development. In
addition, there are still uncertain indications for the exploitation of iron
ore, but with heavy investment requirements and long lead times to establish
commercially viable export operations, production could probably not begin
until the end of the 1980s.
Fourth Development Plan (1976-81)
15.       Cameroon is implementing its Fourth Economic and Social Develop-
ment Plan. Private investment is encouraged, under Government guidelines,
to expand production capacity in agriculture, forestry, mining and manufac-
turing. A part of financing of private investment activities, however, will
be publicly guaranteed borrowing. Planned investment of some US$3.1 billion
(in 1974/75 prices) is about 80 percent higher in real terms than the esti-
mated level achieved during the last Plan period and almost triple previous
Plan expenditures in nominal terms. Public investment is expected to account
for 73 percent of total investment. However, public investment should not
be maintained at planned levels for several reasons, including: (a) the heavy
dependence of public revenue and savings on cocoa and coffee prices, which
are expected to decline substantially in the last three years of the Fourth
Plan (1979-81) from their record levels in the past; (b) the need for adequate
producer prices to give farmers sufficient incentives for production and new
plantings; (c) the rise in import prices, which is expected to continue; and
(d) the requirement to keep supplementary borrowing on commercial terms at
prudent levels to maintain Cameroon's long-term capacity to borrow. An in-
vestment rate during the Fourth Plan period of about 22 percent of GDP, some
10-20 percent below planned levels, appears manageable, implying a total
investment: in current prices of US$3.4-3.7 billion or about US$690-740 mil-
lion a year.



- 6-
Financial Prospects and Creditworthiness
16.       In the first two years of the Fourth Plan period (July 1976 - June
1978), with the favorable terms of trade, public savings after debt service
financed more than half of total public investment. However, in the last
three years (July 1978 - June 1981), public savings after debt service are
not expected to finance more than 30 percent of total public investment, a
share of domestic public financing that is unlikely to be exceeded in the
longer run. Cameroon will thus have to rely increasingly on external financ-
ing for the bulk of its public investment, and foreign official lenders should
finance a high proportion of total project costs of externally financed proj-
ects, including local costs in appropriate cases. An increasing reliance on
foreign borrowing during a period of deteriorating terms of trade will require
careful external debt management. Borrowing on commercial terms increased
significantly in the last two years as a result of the implementation of a
greater number of large investment projects than initially planned. Debt
service will thus increase faster than expected at the beginning of the Plan
period, but the debt situation will remain within acceptable limits provided
future borrowing at commercial terms is kept within prudent limits. Cameroon
has yet to establish a timely and comprehensive system for controlling the
foreign borrowing of its public enterprises. However, our latest mission
has enabled us to bring our estimates up to date. Cameroon is judged to be
creditworthy for Bank financing over the medium-term on the basis of its
ability to maintain and improve productivity in the utilization of the coun-
try's resources and its potential in the long-term to further diversify the
economy by developing still unexploited resources. In order to keep debt
service within reasonable limits, foreign public donors should provide at
least 50 percent of public capital assistance on concessionary terms. On
this basis, the foreign debt service ratio, 7.7 percent of export earnings
in 1978, should not exceed 17 percent by the mid-1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAMEROON
17.       The Bank Group's commitments in Cameroon now amount to US$475
million and cover 31 projects: fourteen in agriculture, eleven in transpor-
tation, three in education, one in public utilities, one small- and medium-
scale enterprises project, and one technical assistance project. Transport
represents the largest share (54 percent) of our past commitments, followed by
agriculture (35 percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of June 30, 1979 and includes notes on ongoing projects.
Although delays and setbacks have been occasionally encountered in the execu-
tion of projects, the Government has consistently shown willingness to col-
laborate with the Bank in finding solutions to such problems.
18.       For the future, the Bank Group's strategy is to support the Govern-
ment in its effort to increase agricultural production, including export
oriented crops, and in the process create productive employment in rural
areas; upgrade and improve the operation and maintenance of the country's in-
frastructure; stimulate investment by local entrepreneurs and increase employ-
ment in urban areas; and enhance the efficiency of Cameroon's institutions.



19.       The Government rightly attaches priority to the balanced regional
development of agricultural resources, and to the improvement of conditions
in the rural sector parallel with promotion of plantation agriculture, includ-
ing smallholder schemes.  Bank Group assistance to Cameroon in agriculture is
designed to support these policy objectives. The Bank helped the Government
create an effective and welL-managed plantation sector by financing oil palm
and rubber plantations in the south and west. The 1975 rubber project is
almost completed and a second phase operation is being prepared to aid
further the development of the southwest coastal region. The second SOCAPALM
and CAMDEV projects are fol:Low-up operations to successful oil palm projects
in the western coastal regions. At the same time, the Bank has assisted, with
two SEMRY projects, in promoting smallholder rice irrigation in the north.
The ongoing cocoa project is helping to modernize smallholder cocoa growing
and to raise rural productivity in areas south and west of Yaounde. Rural
development projects in populated but poor regions are being established with
the assistance of the Bank. The Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project is
financing studies and trial activities to establish whether a full-scale
rural development program can be launched. The ZAPI-East Integrated Rural
Development Project supports ZAPI's ongoing integrated rural development
activities as well as an exlpansion of ZAPI's activities in eastern Cameroon.
The Western Highlands Rural Development Project provides a package of inputs,
techniques and infrastructure aimed at improving productivity for the agri-
cultural economy of the western part of the country. The Rural Development
Fund Project is designed to help the Government establish the machinery for
processing and implementing small-scale rural development schemes - initially
in the north. An objective of a rural development project that we are pro-
posing for the northern region will be to establish planning and coordination
capabilities at the provincial level as well as crop diversification, refor-
estation, small-scale irrigation and rural water supply. The Government's
objectives in its rural development policies are to improve income distribu-
tion, to achieve a better balance in regional development and to promote
essential foodstuff production. The Bank Group intends to increase lending
for agriculture to support these efforts. As a corollary, the second phase
of a livestock development program which began in 1974 is now being prepared
and will comprise tsetse eradication, training and a credit scheme for tradi-
tional producers.
20.       Recognizing the crucial importance of transportation to economic
growth in Cameroon and in neighboring countries, the Government has devoted
the largest portion of public investment to this sector. The Bank Group,
together with other development institutions, has substantially aided develop-
ment of adequate transport facilities. The First and Second Highway Projects
were designed to help complete the country's basic trunk road system. The
latter project encountered severe cost overruns which were partly alleviated
by a Supplementary Credit approved in March 1976 as well as by the elimina-
tion of the reconstruction of the Garoua-Figuil section from the project.
This secti.on is being finan,ced under the Third Highway Project.  A Feeder
Roads Project approved in 1977 will establish institutions for feeder road
administration and maintenance in addition to providing the necessary re-
sources for a feeder road program to support high priority agricultural/rural



- 8 -
development projects. The Fourth Highway Project which was presented to
the Board in June will concentrate on road maintenance and rehabilita-
tion and will include funds for feasibility studies for the construction
of a two-lane heavy duty road between Yaounde and Douala. The Fourth Railway
Project, which was also presented to the Board in June will help finance the
new Douala marshalling yard, maintenance facilities at Yaounde, railway
equipment, and technical assistance for improvements in operations, management
and training; an engineering loan, which is to be refinanced under this
project, was approved in 1976 for these railway facilities. Given projected
traffic increases, and the backlog of required investments in the transport
sector, substantial capital outlays are still necessary - particularly for the
expansion of the Port of Douala, which is being assisted by a Bank loan and
IDA credit, and for related facilities such as those proposed in the Fourth
Railway Project. Future road investments could possibly include financing of
strategic international access routes, but should place greater emphasis on
road maintenance and on developing the network of forestry, feeder and farm
access roads. The Bank is currently assisting the Government to study ways in
which a transport sector plan could be developed in Cameroon.
21.       In other sectors, the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project,
approved in 1975, focuses mainly on developing local entrepreneurship and
a second project is in preparation. A Third Education Project, approved
in April 1976, places special emphasis on rural education and training.
The proposed Second Water Supply Project would provide water to 13 secondary
centers, reinforce and expand water supply systems in Douala and Yaounde, and
would include financing for sewerage and drainage master plan studies for
these two cities. These studies would help prepare an urban development
project designed to upgrade several low-income settlements and develop sites
and services in Douala and Yaounde.
22.       All these projects include, as needed, training, technical assis-
tance, and other provisions necessary for strengthening institutions and
improving sector policies. The Technical Assistance Project approved in June
1977 is helping to strengthen Government services in several key Ministries
involved in investment planning, policy analysis and project processing and a
second project is in preparation. To help achieve the Government's priorities
and to support our future lending strategy will require continuing emphasis on
strengthening the institutional framework, particularly concerning sector
planning, project preparation and implementation in transportation and rural
and urban development. We shall continue to assist the Government in develop-
ing its policies toward newer sector of activity and are tentatively planning
an energy sector study in the next fiscal year. In conjunction with the
International Telecommunications Union, we recently carried out a study of
the telecommunications sector in Cameroon. We have also recently carried out
field studies for a forestry sector survey, in the course of which a project
was tentatively identified.



- 9 -
23.       During the second half of the sixties, overall disbursements to
Cameroon amounted to about US$40-45 million a year.  While at the beginning
of this per:Lod 65 percent of aid funds were grants, the proportion of loans
slowly increased. A major paLrt of external assistance was provided by France
and was concentrated in infrastructure and the productive sectors. The
European Development Fund and European Investment Bank directed their lending
mainly to agriculture, with infrastructure in second place.  Bank and IDA
disbursemenls were small during this period. Since 1972 overall disburse-
ments of foreign aid increased to about US$90 million per year with one-fifth
as grants. The Bank and IDA's share of these inflows amounted to about 23
percent. Our lending to Cameroon has been closely coordinated with other
donors; in 13 of our 31 projects, joint or parallel co-financing arrange-
ments have been made and we are actively seeking co-financing for several
future projects.
24.       Public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31, 1978,
amounted to US$1,167.4 million and is projected to reach US$3.1 billion in
1983.  PubliLc debt service as' a proportion of export earnings amounted to
7.7 percent in 1976 and is projected to reach 16.5 percent in 1985. At that
time, annual foreign aid disbursements may amount to over US$500 million.
At end-1978,, IBRD loans accounted for 8.8 percent of Cameroon's public debt
outstanding and disbursed, arid 13 percent of its public debt service. IDA
credits accounted for 9.2 percent of public debt outstanding and 5.7 percent
of public debt service. The Bank and IDA are expected to account for about
20 percent of total public debt and 11 percent of public debt service in
1985.
25.       In October 1974, CaLmeroon became IFC's 100th member.  IFC's first
operation in Cameroon, a US$450,000 underwriting to bring domestic share-
holders into a previously wholly foreign-owned shoe manufacturing company,
was approved in May 1975. Irn September 1976, the IFC Board approved an equity
investment of nearly US$900,000 in a foreign-owned rubber estate (SAFACAM).
The investment will assist in the rehabilitation and diversification of an
existing est:ate that will produce rubber for export and palm oil for the
domestic market. The operation will also facilitate participation of domestic
shareholders in the estate. In November 1977, the Board approved a third
operation, an investment of up to US$125,000 in the share capital of a pro-
motional company for maize development. No commitment has yet been made on
this investiaent since the original technical partner has been replaced and
major changes have been made in the arrangements expected earlier. The Board
approved a second equity inVEtStment of US$390,000 in SAFACAM in September
1978. The iLncreased capitalization is required to finance the construction of
a palm oil pressing mill. CaLmeroonian participation again increased with this
operation. The Societe Nationale d'Investissement, a national development
bank, is doubling its share in SAFACAM. In April 1979, the Board approved an
investment of US$7.86 million consisting of US$7 million in loan and US$0.86
million equiLvalent in equity in a Cameroonian aluminum producing company,
ALUCAM, to help expand the ccimpany's production capacity.



- 10 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
26.       About 30 percent of Cameroon's total population of 7.8 million
(1977) are estimated to live in urban areas. Roughly 43 percent of the urban
and 24 percent of the rural population have an adequate water supply; however,
there are practically no sewerage systems. Most towns have embryonic storm
drainage systems, usually in the form of unlined ditches without protection.
27.       Piped water systems are currently operating in 34 out of a total
of 118 centers with a population greater than 5,000. While 70 percent of the
total urban population (2.5 million) live in towns with piped water systems,
only 10 percent have access via house connections and 33 percent via stand-
pipes, with the remaining 57 percent relying on shallow wells and surface
water sources which are usually polluted. In Douala and Yaounde, system ex-
tensions have not kept pace with population growth and the number of working
standpipes has declined, e.g. in Yaounde from 94 in 1969 to 49 in 1978. Con-
sequently, the percentage of the population having adequate access to potable
water is declining. In rural areas the Cameroon Government has supported the
Directorate of Rural Engineering and Rural Development (Genie Rural) through
budget allocations and the rural development fund. The Bank's Rural Develop-
ment Fund project (Credit 723-CM) in four Departments of the Northern Province
has allocated 60 percent or US$5.1 million of total project costs for the
construction and operation of 50 small dams, rehabilitation of 600 wells, the
sinking of 400 new wells, and support the continuation of a UNDP project to
survey ground water resources. In the ZAPI Integrated Rural Development
Project (Credit 776-CM) in the eastern region, US$248,000 is allocated for
improving 82 water points, sinking of six wells, and studies for 13 small
village water systems. Agencies and bilateral donors such as UNDP, UNICEF,
Swiss Technical Assistance, the French Agency for Cooperation (FAC) and the
Danish Government have been active in well drilling, construction of small
multipurpose dams, supply of equipment, and in the training of well drilling
teams and sanitarians in rural areas.
Water Supply. Sewerage and Drainage Planning
28.       The Government's current five-year Plan (1976-81) allocates CFAF
13.5 billion (US$61.4 million) for development of water supply systems
in urban centers and about CFAF 4 billion (US$18.2 million) for sewerage and
drainage in Yaounde and Douala. The Government based this allocation on
the assumption that approximately two-thirds of these investments would be
financed from external sources. Selection of the water supply project was
made following discussion of the Bank/WHO sector study which was carried out
in 1974 to identify new projects and sector development constraints. The
Government objectives for the water supply sector under the Plan are: (i)
improving the existing urban water supply systems and providing supply to all
prefectorates and subprefectorates by 1981 so as to ensure an 80 percent
access to safe water supply for the urban population; (ii) increasing the



- 13. -
water supply facilities in rural areas to cover about 50 percent of the rural
population; and (iii) completing the necessary studies that would lead to
implementing water supply systems in smaller administrative centers during the
succeeding plan and thus reaching a 100 percent service level target in urban
centers by 1.986. For the sanitation and drainage sector, the objectives are
to: (i) prepare and update studies for major centers, with possible imple-
mentation of sewerage schemes for the largest and neediest centers of Douala,
Yaounde, Victoria and Maroua; and (ii) implement first-phase and localized
drainage operations in parts of downtown Yaounde and Douala where drainage
problems are a major reason for the squalid living conditions.
Revised Secl:or Objectives
29.       During preparation of the proposed project, it became apparent
that the objective of providing 100 percent access to water in all urban
centers by [986 was too ambitious. The appraisal mission, in cooperation with
the Government, prepared a revised investment program with the objective of
100 percent access by 1990. The attainment of this objective would depend
not only on the construction of 84 new systems and the rehabilitation of 14
existing systems, but also oni the acceptance of standpipes as an essential
means of providing access to about half of the 1990 population. The Govern-
ment correctly recognizes the inherent problems in the use of standpipes.
Standpipes require regular maintenance and most municipalities are reluctant
to pay for standpipe consumption. Despite the planned introduction starting
in FY80 of low cost yard connections which could serve 20 percent of the urban
population by 1990, it is unLikely that the national water supply company,
SNEC, could provide house and yard connections at a sufficient rate to supply
all of the population. Therefore, there is no choice but to increase the
number of standpipes in order to attain the desired service levels.
30.       Based on the revised sector objective, the total urban population
having access to piped water service would increase from about one million at
present to 5.9 million in 1990, i.e. at an average growth rate of 16 percent
per annum, or double the average urban population growth rate estimate of 7.5
percent per annum. It is estimated that implementation of the above program
would involve the following investments:



- 12 -
Investment Program to 1990 for Urban Water Systems
Amount of Investment in Period
US$ Millions in 1978 Prices
Center                               1978-85      1986-90
1.  Yaounde                                      23.6         31.8
2.  Douala                                       35.0         40.9
3.  Secondary centers - existing                 29.0         22.7
4. Secondary centers - planned/under
construction                                 56.4         11.0
5.  Secondary centers - identified               17.3         62.7
Total                                 161.3        169.9
Priorities for equipping centers presently unserved are based on a weighting
scheme which takes into account population, distance to, and quality of, the
raw water source, per capita cost, etc. The proposed loan includes financing
for the water supply and sewerage/drainage master plan studies of Douala and
Yaounde, as well as the feasibility studies for existing secondary center
water supplies, to make it possible for SNEC and the Government to plan
regular expansion of this infrastructure.
Sector Institutions
31.       Since the creation in 1967 of the national water supply company,
Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (SNEC), the sector's basic responsi-
bilities have been allocated as follows: (i) the Ministry of Economy and
Planning (MINEP) provides general investment guidelines and seeks sources
of external financing for the investment program; (ii) the Directorate of
Energy and Water (DEW) of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MINMEN) has
general responsibility for urban water supply, in particular for overall
planning, design and construction supervision of new water supply systems,
operation of small provincial systems and the "tutelle" of SNEC; (iii) SNEC
has been entrusted with the operation and extension of the 20 major urban
water supply systems under concession contracts; and (iv) the Directorate of
Rural Engineering and Community Development in the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for rural water supply.
32.       This organizational set-up is basically logical and is expected
to improve as MINMEN delegates more of its responsibility for design and
contruction supervision to SNEC. The viability of the service to the urban
areas depends to a great extent on the dynamism of SNEC. Failure to obtain
needed tariff increases in the past, and inadequate staffing due to the
elimination of expensive expatriate personnel, have weakened SNEC. As a
result, SNEC has not extended its systems in keeping with urban growth and has
failed to assume a leadership role in the development of the water supply



- 13 -
sector. The DEW has assumed some of the responsibilities normally to be
carried out by SNEC. However, DEW suffers also from understaffing and lack of
experienced engineers and planners. One expatriate water supply engineer and
one senior engineer/economist are now being recruited (financed by IDA Tech-
nical Assistance Project, Credit No. 673-CM), to assist the DEW.
33.       The Ministry of Equipment and Housing (MINEH), through its Director-
ate of Urbanism, and Housing and Construction, is responsible for storm
drainage. The responsibilities for sanitation remain ill defined, and for
this reason 'Little attention is given to collection and disposal of sewage and
solid wastes. While MINMEN nominally has countrywide responsibility for
sewerage planning and construction activities, MINEH has been implementing
these because they were linked to other urban infrastructure such as road and
drainage canals. The future allocation of responsibilities for this sector
would be examined under sanitation and drainage studies, for which financing
would be provided under the proposed project.
34.       The Government has started construction of water supply systems
in 17 secondary centers, eight of which are financed through a KfW loan
(DM 40 million, or US$21.4 million equivalent) and most of the local cost by
the national. budget (approximately CFAF 1 billion or US$4.5 million equiva-
lent). Although completion of these projects has been considerably delayed,
they are now expected to become operational in 1979. Construction in five
centers at a cost of CFAF 2 billion (US$9 million) was completed in 1977, with
financing by the Italian Government.
SNEC
35.       SNEC is a public company functioning under the direct guidance
and supervision of the Government, especially of MINMEN. SNEC was created in
1967 to operate the water supply systems of Douala, Yaounde and nine smaller
systems operated by separate entities, with the long-term goal to assume
gradually the responsibility of all piped water supply operations. Since
1970, SNEC has enlarged its activities progressively by adding nine more
systems. For 1979/80, SNEC plans to assume the operating responsibility
for the 11 secondary systems to be improved under the proposed project, which
are at present operated by the municipalities or the DEW-MINMEN. The Govern-
ment intends that SNEC take over the design, construction and operation of all
urban piped water systems. The development program of SNEC is thus synonymous
with the national program for the urban water sector.
36.       SNEC's share capital is CFAF 500 million.  The national electric
power company, SONEL, is thes largest shareholder (67 percent) followed by the
Government (20 percent). Because the Central Government holds 80 percent of
SONEL's share capital, it effectively owns 74 percent of SNEC's stock and
controls directly 87 percent of the votes. The rest of the shares are held
by CCCE of France (11 percent) and the municipalities (2 percent). Dividends
at the rat.e of 5 percent have been paid in several years. As most of the
dividends would go to the Government, who would provide a substantial portion



- 14 -
of the sector investments in the future, the Government agreed during negotia-
tions that it will cause SNEC to reinvest in the urban water supply sector
any declared dividend during the project implementation period. (Section
4.02(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement.)
37.       SNEC operates under four separate concession contracts for different
areas with the Government. One major deficiency of the contracts is that
they do not specifically commit SNEC to a continuous expansion of these sytems
in order to meet increasing demand and to expand the service to all, including
the poor. During negotiations, the Government agreed that this responsibility
will be added to the concession contract and that the Government will provide
or cause to be provided through tariffs, equity or loans the financial re-
sources necessary for SNEC to fulfill this responsibility (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The Government also agreed that it will, by June 30,
1980, review the existing concession contracts with a view to standardizing
and simplifying these as necessary and will consult with the Bank before the
final text is adopted (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Under the existing service contract between SNEC and SONEL, SONEL
staff handles all commercial/administrative matters outside of Douala. This
includes staff supervision of regional operations, as well as meter reading,
billing, collection and data processing. This organization is unsatisfactory
since SONEL's regional delegates working on a part-time basis for SNEC are
not particularly interested in water supply. It is one of the main reasons
for the somewhat unsatisfactory billing and collection situations. SNEC
has decided to phase out this arrangement over a period of five years.
Costs to SNEC are not expected to increase, while direct supervision of
regional staff lead to an improved billing and collection performance. In
order to assist SNEC to achieve this organizational change and, in the
process, build up its institutions, we propose to finance related technical
assistance within the Bank project.
39.       A Project Performance Audit Report was issued in November 1976
for the First Water Supply Project (Loan No. 604-CM). The project was aimed
at expanding water supply systems in both Douala and Yaounde as well as
strengthening SNEC's managerial and financial capabilities and these objec-
tives were successfully attained. The proposed project is specifically
designed to reach the lower income groups in urban areas by adding 390 public
standpipes, introducing low cost yard connections, and the introduction of a
social block3in the tariff structure to reduce water tariff for consumption
of up to 5 m per month per connection.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The project stems from the recommendations of the water supply
sector study made by the Bank/WHO cooperative program in 1974/75. The 13
secondary centers included in the project were selected from the priority
listing of this sector study. The feasibility studies for these centers were
financed with proceeds from the IDA Technical Assistance Project (Credit No.
673-CM). The studies for the urgently needed improvements to the Douala and
Yaounde systems were made by an engineer seconded to SNEC by a French water
supply company. A Bank consultant made an assessment of the Douala and
Yaounde water treatment facilities in July 1978. Urban poverty aspects were
researched by a Bank consultant, in May 1978. The present project was
appraised in October 1978. A follow up post-appraisal mission visited Cameroon
in January ]L979. Negotiations for the loan were held in Washington in May
1979. The Cameroon Delegation was led by Mr. Benoit Bindzi, Ambassador of the
United Republic of Cameroon to the United States.  A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled Second Cameroon Water Supply Project (No. 2457-CM) dated August 8,
1979 is also being circulated to the Executive Directors.  A timetable
of key events is presented in Annex III of this report.
Objectives
41.       The proposed project will be the first major step toward achieving
the general sector program objective of providing 100 percent potable water
services in urban areas in 1990. The specific objectives are to: (i) pro-
vide 13 secondary centers with a reliable potable water supply, to be managed
by SNEC; (ii) extend the distribution systems so that potable water will be
available in all urban areas of Douala and Yaounde by 1983 when 75 percent
of the population will be served. This will mean an increase in population
served by 700,000 people ovetr the estimated 400,000 served in 1978. Par-
ticular attention will be given to serving the low income areas, which cover
about 50 percent of both cities; (iii) lay the groundwork for an organized
sanitation and drainage sector for Douala and Yaounde by providing technical
plans as well as financial and managerial studies; (iv) in order to ensure
that the public health benefits which should derive from the project are
actually realized, initiate a pilot public health education project. Public
health education is intended to lead to a country-wide effort to make the
population aware of the health benefits of a public potable water supply
and of proper excreta disposal and drainage systems, and of the measures
to be taken to achieve these benefits; and (v) strengthen the organization of
the Camercon water supply sector, in particular the daily management and
operations of the water supply services by SNEC.
Project Description
42.       The project consists of:



- 16 -
(a) water supply facilities including: (i) water supply systems
for 13 secondary centers having an average population
of 12,000 in 1978. The works will include nine treatment
plants, 10 reservoirs for treated water and transmission
and distribution pipes; (ii) reinforcement and expansion of
the water distribution, transmission and storage facilities
for Douala, including the supply and construction of distri-
bution pipes, two reservoirs for treated water and improve-
ment of the treatment and transmission facilities; (iii) re-
inforcement and expansion of the water distribution, storage,
treatment and pumping facilities for Yaounde, including the
supply and construction of distribution pipes, two treated
water reservoirs and improvements of the treatment and pump-
ing plant; and (iv) construction of public standpipes and
the introduction of a social house connection program;
(b) studies which comprise: (i) design and construction super-
vision of the water supply and operating facilities outlined
above; (ii) master plan studies for water production, trans-
mission and distribution in Douala and Yaounde; (iii) urban
development studies for Douala and Yaounde to provide a
basis for water supply, sewerage and drainage studies in-
cluding sewerage and drainage master plan studies; (iv) fea-
sibility studies for future extensions to the other SNEC
water supply systems, including possible ground water
research and standardization of equipment; and (v) studies
for promotion of local civil works contractors and manufac-
turers for the water supply and sanitation sectors;
(c) management and operation improvement program for SNEC com-
prising a program of specific actions to be undertaken by
SNEC, to strengthen its management and organization, to ensure
efficient operation of its facilities, to improve project
implementation and to upgrade the level and quality of its
services. Specifically the program would include: (i) partial
reorganization of SNEC's regional operational responsibilities,
creation of a commercial department, and an internal auditing
unit and revision of accounting systems and procedures so as
to prepare for the expected expansion of SNEC; (ii) about 18
man-years of technical assistance for training and management
improvement for SNEC; and (iii) organizing a comprehensive
training program to meet SNEC's manpower and training require-
ments; and
(d) public health education including: (i) consulting services
(four man-months) for the purpose of identifying specific
public health education needs for the realization of full
health benefits from the investment in water supply; and
(ii) vehicles and equipment and consulting services (12
man-months) for the detailed design of a pilot public health



- 17 -
education campaign aimed at modifying unhygienic practices
reLated to the use of water and at encouraging the use of
yard connections, to be carried out in selected project
centers.
Project Implementation
43.       The project would be carried out by SNEC, except for studies for
sewerage and drainage, urban and public health education, and promotion of
local contractors, which would be implemented by the Ministries of Mines and
Energy, Equipment and Health and Centre National d'Assistance pour Petites et
Moyennes Entreprises (CAPME) respectively. Bidding for major components
covering manufacturing of equipment and construction/erection is expected to
start by the end of 1979, and the project should be completed by mid-1983.
For construction supervision, SNEC would be assisted by engineering consult-
ants who would provide in-service training to SNEC's staff. One expatriate
engineer is currently advising SNEC's management, and five more expatriate
assistants are expected to be recruited by SNEC under the technical assistance
component of the project. The technical assistance would include an operations
manager (four years), a supervisor to assist in the take-over of new centers
(two years), a commercial manager (four years), an accounting expert (four
years), and a manager for the training center (four years). Consultants
to assist SNiEC will be hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Key indicators would be
monitored by SNEC during project execution to measure the achievement of the
technical, financial, administrative, and training goals set for the proposed
project. The target set for each item to be monitored will be discussed.
SNEC agreed, during negotiat:Lons, to submit, until project completion, quar-
terly reports on these monitoring indicators (Section 2.05 of the draft Proj-
ect Agreement). SNEC already has the capacity to carry out this monitoring
itself.
44.       In order to achieve the objective of 100 percent service level of
safe water in urban cities in 1990, the project would place particular
emphasis on reaching the lower income groups. Specific measures would be
provided to make the service affordable for these groups: (i) introduction
of yard connections which is intended to reduce initial connection fees
charged to consumers; (ii) substantial increase in standpipes; (iii) in-
troduction of a low pricS social block in the tariff structure for water
consumptiorL of up to 5 m per month; and (iv) lowering the cost of production
and distribution facilities by introducing appropriate technical design
standards and feasible alternatives to present systems.
Financial Evaluation of SNEC
45.       SNEC's financial structure and performance during FY1974-78 were
generally sound and satisfactory. Net internal cash generation during this
period financed 29 percent of the sector's investment in assets operated
by SNEC. The debt service coverage was well in excess of the debt limit-
ation covenant under the First Water Supply Project, according to which



- 18 -
no additional debt could be incurred unless net revenues covered maximum
future debt service 1.5 times.  This debt service coverage covenant will be
maintained under the proposed project.  Until completion of the Project, SNEC,
shall not undertake any capital investment costing more than US$1 million
in the aggregate per annum without having reached an understanding with the
Bank on such an investment (Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).
46.       The four different concession contracts under which SNEC operates,
set out multi-parameter tariff adjustment formulae. In practice, however,
the formulae have not been applied. Moreover, the Government and SNEC intro-
duced a nation-wide uniform tariff effective July 1, 1976. Therefore, the
Bank appraisal mission recommended that Government replaces these four differ-
ent formulae by one uniform formula and that tariff increases shall be
based on a rate of return requirement.  Effective January 1, 1979, the Gov-
ernment allowed SNEC to increase the tariff level on average by 28 percent,
based on the rate of return requirement for FY79 and to revise the tariff
structure, introducing a low price social block, as recommended by the ap-
praisal mission.  SNEC will prepare, annually, financial forecasts over a
five-year period to test the rate of return covenant (Section 4.08 of the
draft Project Agreement). The Government and SNEC agreed at negotiations that
tariffs would be increased as necessary to obtain rates of return of at least
4 percent in FY80 and at least 5 percent in each fiscal year thereafter until
FY83, at least 6 percent in FY84 and at least 7 percent in each FY thereafter
(Section 4.04 (a) of the draft Project Agreement and Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement). This would enable SNEC to finance a high (37 percent)
proportion of sector investment requirements through internal cash generation
in addition to operational cost recovery.  The above rate of return sovenant
would not result in large tariff increases. The average price per m of water
sold is expected to increase by about 10-12 percent each year, which would
keep tariffs approximately constant in real terms.
47.       SNEC's collections from domestic consumers and industry are satis-
factory. Considerable arrears, however, normally exist for water consumed
by the Government and for water consumed at standpipes which is paid by
municipalities. However, prior to negotiations, the Government settled
all its arrears in excess of three months of billing. The Government agreed
at negotiations to cause payment of all municipal arrears in excess of three
months by December 31, 1979. The Government also agreed that it will: (i)
request adequate budgetary appropriations from the National Assembly, based on
actual and estimated water consumption each year and settle water bills within
three months after billing; (ii) cause the muncipalities to settle their water
bills within three months after billing (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       Until recently, SNEC's accounts were reasonably well kept.  Over
the last few years, however, a gradual deterioration in the enforcement of
internal control procedures has been observed. As part of the proposed
project, training will be provided for SNEC accounting staff and an account-
ing expert will be recruited. During negotiations, SNEC agreed to establish



- 19 -
an internal auditing unit by December 31, 1979, with staff, functions and
authority satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Separate fixed assets registers under different depreciation methods
are kept by SNEC for each of three categories of assets: (i) private assets
owned by SNEC and financed by shareholders and operating revenues; (ii)
concession assets financed by SNEC from operating revenues; and (iii) con-
cession assets financed by the Government and consumers (the latter bear the
cost of cornnections and extensions). During negotiations, an agreement was
reached tha.t SNEC will simplify present asset registration practice as accept-
able to the Bank (Section 3.07 and 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). In
the course of project implementation, the Government is expected to transfer
the operating responsibility for water supply systems of at least 30 secondary
centers to SNEC including the 13 to be improved under the proposed loan.
Project Cost and Financial E'lan
49.       Total project costs, exclusive of taxes, are estimated at US$51.4
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component would amount to
about US$35 million (70 percent). By special fiscal regulation in Cameroon,
SNEC is exempted from taxes on investments for water supply works. A breakdown
of costs by major expenditure categories is given in the loan and project
summary. Allowances have been made for physical and price contingencies,
which amount to 43 percent of total base cost. An average annual inflation
rate of 10 percent has been assumed for the project execution period.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of US$21 million would finance 41 percent
of total project costs or 58 percent of the project's foreign exchange cost.
The Government would relend US$18.1 million to SNEC on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan except that the Government would accept the
foreign exchange risk. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement be-
tween the Borrower and SNEC would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The remaining US$2.9 million
would be retained by Government to finance the foreign exchange cost of
studies for water supply, sewerage and drainage, urban planning and public
health education.  The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) has agreed
to co-finance the foreign exchange cost of the project with a direct loan to
SNEC in the amount of US$15 million with terms of 15 years including five
years of grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum. The balance of
project costs would be provided by SNEC (US$14.8 million equivalent) and the
Government (US$0.6 million equivalent) to finance all local costs. The
signing oE the Loan Agreement between SNEC and CDC would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Consultants to carry out the master plan and final design studies
for Douala and Yaounde and the final design studies for the 13 secondary
centers have been contracted and approved by the Bank and expatriate tech-
nical assistance is being recruited. The amount of the advance contracting
proposed is estimated to be about US$2 million, with retroactive financing for
an amount not to exceed US$300,000. To avoid delays in project execution,



- 20 -
SNEC and the Government have agreed to prefinance the above contracts for
which the first payment was made in May 1979. Given the small amounts involved
and the need to start construction works before the rainy season in 1980, this
financing would be justified.
52.       The average total cost per man-month of technical assistance and
consulting services is estimated at US$9,900 excluding contingencies. The cost
of the proposed studies and technical assistance was estimated on the basis of
recent consultancy proposals for the water supply master plan studies and Bank
experience with similar studies and technical assistance in Western Africa.
Procurement
53.       Contracts for goods and services for major components of the project
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank Group guidelines. Civil works for the standpipes may be
carried out under contracts procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Bank or on force account by SNEC's services. Equipment and materials for the
pilot hygiene education campaign may be procured on the basis of contracts
negotiated after solicitation of price quotations from at least three sup-
pliers. To the extent possible bidding documents would group civil works, the
laying of pipes and supply of equipment and pipes into lots that would attract
both local and international bidders. Procurement would be carried out in two
stages for the 13 secondary centers and in one stage for the Douala and
Yaounde sub-projects. Supply and construction of social connections and
standpipes would be partially executed by the successful bidders for the
above-mentioned works at the same time as the construction of the distribution
system. The remaining work would be carried out by SNEC. Consultants and
technical assistance would be selected and appointed on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
54.       The proposed Bank and CDC loans of US$21 and US$15 million re-
spectively would be disbursed against the estimated foreign exchange cost, net
of tax, of items financed by the Bank and CDC as follows:
(i) the Bank 38 percent and CDC 32 percent of the cost of all
plant, equipment and pipes for SNEC;
(ii) the Bank 38 percent and CDC 32 percent of the expenditures
for pipe laying and civil works contracts for SNEC;
(iii) the Bank 38 percent and CDC 32 percent of the expenditures
for consulting services and technical assistance for SNEC;
(iv) the Bank 70 percent of expenditures for consulting services
for the Government; and



- 21 -
(v) the Bank 70 percent of the costs of procurement of equipment
and rmaterials by the Government.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       The primary benefit of- the project would be the provision of ade-
quate, safe water supply systems to 1.2 million people. About US$1.6 million
or 8 percent of the US$21 million Bank loan would directly benefit half a
million of urban poor people mainly through the financing of standpipes and
yard connections. The overall Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) for the
project is estimated to be 7 percent based solely on present tariffs and is
satisfactory considering the unquantifiable health benefits and consumer
surplus. Unit costs of supply vary for the 13 secondary centers, as they do
throughout Cameroon, and, in general, are higher than prices fixed by the
uniform national tariff. This situation is, however, acceptable as a means of
redistributing income through cross-subsidization primarily from the industrial
city of Douala.
56.       Health benefits are unquantifiable and therefore not included in
IERR calculations. These benefits are expected to result from a reduction in
water borne disease and would lead to increased productivity through a reduc-
tion in time lost from work, as well as a reduction in direct medical costs.
Full health benefits can be realized from improved water supply, however, only
when users employ the water in a proper, hygienic manner. It is for this
reason that the health education pilot project is included in the proposed
project and agreement was reached with the Government that it will implement,
through the M:inistry of Health, the recommendations of the studies included in
this project (Section 3.04 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). There are no
significant teschnical risks associated with the proposed project. Of concern
is the need for training of Cameroonian personnel in order not to delay
project implementation.  Therefore, training assistance is included in the
proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Cameroon
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and SNEC and the
Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
58.       The fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the loan
agreement between SNEC and CDC and the conclusion of a satisfactory onlending
agreement between the Borrower and SNEC are special conditions of effective-
ness of the Bank loan (para. 5,0).
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 22 -
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 9, 1979



- 23 -                                             ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  4  pages
CAnEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMEROON                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOLSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  a
TOTAL             475.4                                                     SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      156.4                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   110.0        200.0     34O.0fl          261.4       430.3        926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS O7 COAL EQUIVALENT)        55.0        91.0       98.0             80.6       262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS -
POPULATION, !1ID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       5.7          6.8       7.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.9          20.3       27.2             17.1        24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         13.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           32.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2135
POPULATION EENSITY
PER SQ. K}.                         12.0        14.0       17.0             18.4        45.3        44.6
PER SQ. 1N. AGRICULTURAL LAND       36.0        44.0       51.0             50.8       149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           38.5        41.3       43.0             44.1        45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.                          59.2         55.7       54.0             52.9       51.9         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.3         3.0        3.0              2.8         2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.4          1.8       2.2              2.7         2.7          2.4
URBAN                                 ..         5.6        8.0              5.7         4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0        42.1       43.0             46.3        39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.0        22.0       19.0             17.2        11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.3/g        2.7       2.8              3.1         2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..         ..               ..        13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTBITION
INDEX OF PCOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPIIA (1969-71-100)            70.4       100.0      102.0             94.3        99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE.MENTS)                   96.0         96.0      102.0             89.5       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMIS PER DAY)           59.0        59.0       59.3             55.8        54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         23.0|h    16.5              17.9        17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       40.0        32.0       27.0              22.3       11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0          42.0       46.0             47.0        54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            167.0/i         ..        ..               ..        68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      26.0             20.3       34.4         60.8
URBAN                                                      35.0             53.9        57.9        75.7
RURAL                                  .           ..      22.0             10.1        21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULAT'ION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..             22.5        40.8        46.0
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..             62.5        71.3        46.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..             13.9        27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          34000.0/f   25960.0   13980.0            17424.7      6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5210.0/f    2470.0    1890.0             2506.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATIOS PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              530.0/f     310.0      380.0            502.3       726.5       453.4
URBAN                                 ..          ..      350.0            201.4       272.7       253.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..           1403.6      1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             23.4        27.5         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ...                   5.2              4.9         5.4          5.3
URBAN                                                       5.1              4.9         5. 1        5.2
RURAL                                 * -                   5.2              5.5         5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NEUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..                .          :           1.9
URBAN                                                                                                 2 1.6
RURAL                                 ...                     ..                           .2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 .28.1                                                         50.0
URBAN                                                                                   41..  ..  ..  ..  4.1  1.7
RURAL                                 ...                    ...                         9.9        17.3



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page  2  of  4  pages
CAMEROON - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CAMIROON                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  a
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP ke
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 65.0       107.0      120.0             59.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                 87.0        124.0      133.0            64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE               43.0         91.0      106.0            44.2        75.8        07.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       17.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                  4.0         13.0      23.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
FEMALE                 1.0         5.0       11.0             4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  23.0          23.0      23.0              7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        48.0       51.0             42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                            ..        24.0       23.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        19.0         12.0        ..             20.8       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          6.0       7.8              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        36.0       96.0            44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..             2.9        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0/h        3.0       3.9              5.6       18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1           ..        1.0              0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2230.0      2560.0    2783.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..           *-      40.0            31.9        29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              78.5         75.9      73.8             77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.6         6.0        6.3             7.9        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.3         37.8      35.7             40.8       37.1         33.5
MALE                                   ..           .       45.6             53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                 ..           ..      26.9             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.2       1.3              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..       15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..               ..       48.2        -52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..               ..       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     189.0            187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      88.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            138.4      179.7        282.5
RURAL                                ,.           ..        ..             71.0      103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      15.0             34.5       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      40.0             48.7       37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962, including ex-South Cameroons under British Administra-
tion;  /g  West Cameroon o,nly;   /h   1964-1966;   /i  1960-65;   /j  Fiscal year July-June.
May, 1979



-25 -                                                                      ANX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
Note..:Although  Ie d4cc ore doar Er- ecuce  ge.             rll  jodgad  :he moat au,th-rt.tstte ud r1u.llat, It should  I.. be noted that thsy cay  ot heb            leae
tionelly  -opelrab  bo hatac. ofthetech o f etoo.d.rdled di.fftbobo  end coecpte used hy 4ttfa-sot ooooEat  oollootle  the dote.  Th. dot  . ,  -traheleec,
use ful to desertbo urdurs of mgol.tda, tdlaftet tratde, end ehereotsrilstlee certaint 5*10  dIfferences haowee ..ou..trle..
Theedose  oc           e?..for etch isdtceor ar  popclcltu-oig1htad geatrlc  Moeels  etldlog thu extra    sue oftheIJdIcatr end the ceot populated
cecetry  to seth goup.  Due to tool,of date, group erage. of eli  ldleetar   forI.  Capital Surplhus   l Exprter  cod o   InIctorsof  .oeet  ot?cd  ert
disPosel, H u.ttog, Iota. ditetblhtle   ad Port  far other xouotry gruop  an  popolatecoegtemisd                  cgantrl  en   olhout  xocleo   ofth  eterea   vlen sd
th    etppltd toatry.  Ilc   i   oeaeo   otolamo                  the tnjxter1deoaade cavllahlit,  fdt  ce   tot  tfo. i=                   tau:tlunm steaxrld
torltloaareeoZ                   e I=trt_ae          .       c         a  r    ee     seu   saersfmtoaIfrueoe                      sls   ha   csare   hevle.oI              n
indlcatco et e ti  me caca  teconradoacan,rct
h .Mk  Itoed ath)aset   ntt   ltoa   cre?c   cuate  - total  os. lted
otl-Ttaletfc         Iae   - uprlsirt  ie.d area aend ibleed vater.-nut-ti                            fpa         ttl   re    o   ua)are   ysceedc
TurOWltca T      ot000   stcaeo   gtotrttreca   eprot                                       pals   ao ee   of chaI telpl tlt  poulaIon.~  tobt,                     daoe
or poroanaroly  too oropt, paavoras rkrit sued kltohee gadens o  to            ixy ixoIds the n.1olltt- sold dip.oel, oith or w,ithout treat-tmtlf
lee faIou                                                                               h-..ao  xcrte  a       t otete tala   hyo.tor-hbr     yotut  or cha net of pit
pllaod etmilll,r L.calctle
09?N f  CAPt,.A lut)) - CoNp pr capita  teloo    a-orretm rt -            pIesrkeo.tc  act. p evioeo  - Po.po,1,tato                     lddI rhhro  patco   phyci-
caiolto  lv oat c- tar lo  uthod cc WurId Setit Attn  (1915-73 heole                    clou  qulifteldvfro  a -adicl    blet coooctybo.
1960. 19ff,..cd 1970, data.                                                           P-etalot- oar coa         pecrol     - Populettox dioldd.Ayy oeber of precticltA
talIcud feted. grduettorc,poecticolore.1                  o   e -tootItte.
ENERGY CONSITIPTI)N PEt CAPITA  A- oca  -nooopolot of totrolet ahrfy (cu.I                 Poealoti  pc  h.opcht1 hod - totld. ubo.I  end r-re  - Popotuloti (otl
cod ligto  pottlta,  -etro   So.a etd hydrA-, t-tteat and geotheosel                     o7rhoc, aed lrur1) dtoidod hy th.il roe.pr'tiye otahr of hoepilcal hodol
eloctoc Ito)It Alieogoc  f coo  oqooattt per capIta  1960, 1970                   oelablr  It pol,lic, cod poloc t ossor Itcod op-olallod hospIta  cdor
cod 1906 data.                                                                           hahtlieclicurcee    Otpitto  eta r::cb t          h-lftoot  Prcooti  ecafed ho
tPfIATIIOH ANDl VITAL STATISTICS                                                             at loca too phycloiat.  lchllrttpollgpolocipalllo cetodiot
Totl cocllo.h olld-yectfotloc  - A. tf July 1.  MD6, 1900, etd                          lcooe ott loolodod.  Total h-apirtl.   h-.avr, oolode bra-lob co  oodt-
(VT data.                                                         cal~~~~~~~1   oa co  noI Poroocotly- tletfd b, a phyaioiat (butITcad Iolc-
Colon orpulctn  (000_0  olctell1  -Ratio of uthao to total populatlot;                                                        -ito,unr.oidto   tc.Ao  offer it-path rot  -c ordotlot and
5lff foroo  defotoor  rhoraoyafucx-alt   idt                                             provido a llltod caugo of todlcl a-I         clo
avocotro,i   1960, 1970 cod 1915 data.                                          Adifcatooo pe0 hocolcol had - Toa ...       ha  of b o-'I loloo. toor, dlt-h-rA-
toclclo  Polr-lts.                                                                   foro hoepitalo diuidod by fIr oroeho  of lode.
Io.u.a... Iv Tea  1150 - Cur-tc populaclot projeotlot  ate bu..cd Oc
191ctI       ppltlot hyco co   ot d tho to ootalt.ty cod fortillcy                  HOSN
octet.  tro(eutlct poocococros for sootellty  001cc~.t.  coorirto  of I I-"o  A-oraoog,lorof bouorhold loorco .. foPr hot.,,d,        ol.ubu,cd  ua 
occrrt   ie lt rprutucet bIrth lota  o   tt --rcpo  aio                               Shcuhl   oooe  fofopo   odIr.dnal  o -oohor  Iloo- qoard r1
-tme(to, and foclItfanrlcn              Ioallro   at 77.1 y_ca.ct  rholr tlcd                         rl.S odoo   o   rty  ocytth   oiddI   b
Th. pora..tooc  forMfrflt   occltboIoooa                     groo  d-ocllco             h..c.ahld for cttlatti cl potypco.. l
iv rotrllro cnnrdOo~  toloonto  evel  o  pc P a.. y   lOOlO P-O- I           Anr..r Ic e o-.f  r-x  coo Mro            t.focl. ubc  cod rural
clctro2jSloth -ro     I, qa  t   h  deat  tot, co  alt  tho  ....                  CotchoaldeIocollrotl                          ttAo  qatr   epeooeoo
0000000 Ito u I ooooo coplonet Itor,f toacy.TeSttocr    oolto              fIC  ATIOP
tdoolcatfo   to the  tt00,adtr t  of dontlo.Iof fetIlIt   caf                           PC-r.cochoo  - docll.  ital  codl-rolrt roE o  riotc q-rolr copfocr-toaol-
uf tootl  tia-donocb-cchev ochoothe                                                    I                        Wcc. tl   o   oae-Cxoe coor.ccoeoouc
no Ir.-d                                                                         croe ldai.   fllll,r-  '~ l ooclci:rcohtud   c   oorcfo    o ,ltnnlyi
(1e-r  earti , and rot-te  (7 ro-h cd - uT.cer) cc1 porttcao    of. ry td.-               -hcal-olcoolrt   croo  of,.,-       sccocdcrl,-   ocah oold,ootltutfoocl  locud
nerptltio.16,lr   o   91dc.coofa    oocll   r010porc  oodb0 opr--oco                                                                                     podp pioo loo  cc
Pcoaco  Mno -thcaf  (cootell l- cu-o q-Aenkil--ot ttto (0h total                          deacrrtt  n  otcocdrf cilcht Ic.
rf-roppucSo   o  11-S   90-f   o   90-0                                           ol-rohrrSn-Icot.ad  Irodle  -   oC-pl-d todeoc   roro                         .-edto
toculofoc tvorh rte Croceot - oclaod-Oot... f-to   ct0o  cr100                      poroui tod         l_ Eoc_dco   _ool   dlfle  byoI hcIfcohooA  Aec
lrotuoiooitno  fot 191-fl...19(0 _-VS  enld 107 10-1.                             opo2odoog loorlo.  'g            rd
Sr..ll or _oct    lr clpu-lto    -   o tt1(-0A .. oIb   po-t croleo  of u..1           dol.p ocyrtc.-r-r(-  lraeco 0   ci   0c00cdoto00
,Id-oc,  lpupu_ _rto    - 195060. ht  cod -"  1901 9ccc  a_77cotao o  cci.odul   oplad                                          o -  fod.   -I Voritc.1    er
Crd leahrth r.00 cho-tool -  roobl  eahs  orthonoatd    f old-                                                                                             1e   l
yosult pi-   lo.  19 191((.910 co ,'d 197   cc                                      C     p.tdiT g 1-1T1
Itbo  vnolcoooln lo   prodIfchepolonr    troocur                                     oto  lot.g  oho tfh1 pdrsIt p    opoludec ochd lcoec.  -ttr  cdol tt
sovolfi  footi" 01,  -to   utul   fly.o-yocc  -oo-gec osdfcg f  1960,                    ochi,loc
191,7, cod 1071.                                                                      Tadloreortotoc, (vec chouccod                     Allalc)-ol type-  of tene-o    fur radIo
"avily oaooloo-ccrsotor   actual(thoouadcI- 0001 trocr of                        hrocdcaotscooocIpohbti  pot thoctd of popolattotoni                    dtot-rtd
faoll.o olcoroSo0-00000 roorcooc of ocroled couco) - Perceocsgr o~~f-l                             -dholl-had- legcotltig.
rocfd co-r  of chfidE-hacfo  ce   15-44 yecro) who uoeS bloth-cocco1                 IT,coot  (orotho....od ptpolottool  - UVVccoo                for broad.oc. tog ..,.ro
doulce,t,co ItZ n-rrd 0         L00. coot  ge groop.                                     poblic  Pat thooscod popuicti.o:  -ncldro  uci-coo-d IV roc.. Wert  Iuco
orrt- cod In yrc,-  uhot or.~Incotio of TV  etof  oat ftefet
00 l  NtOITRItON                                                                      Nauao... cltclcti          (rt hoccd populcctiuel - Shocs the a-rragr nlr-olo
indocoZ   od'-tduc--0"000  clc1969-71 * 1011  -  ldoc of Peco-pitc                          tIcofdcliv          Ira  t'tts t coc,;.paprr' , d.floed  -upe  iclc          ......l
atuipooduoto fi      l  od7cr       itodc-,   Podotc ro .ldc  od cod                 u-looh do..oto'd 'po iluo    orccordtcg0  ...c  000?-.  Ic Os -o-oIdered to
food cod to on c-lordar porhd       rretltsn                 prilary fttds               ho  'dolly" Iflcppeo   cn  rot foor tloic-             rh
e.g.oogrnace toco   ofI    0-c)hc   0  edibll  cod ootalt         octrl            Dit    C -..o cocI ctcodcoc  coco .ptIlpe r yvoor--Ird0thcrhe  of cliokrl
_ .c.ofol d ta  lce eo ldd.  Atoccata  podoottic of each Oc...cry                    oId fo-tg tho Toot, iociudlog odttloifo   to dolio-lo iooro- sod cobilo
to Saurd no  o          -otl  0050  prod-oo  prfna coghts.                               utlo_.
Pot -cpbt. coedly of calcoo    tcotofocloo                      Cocputrd foot
Pcc duo   lrailchl.r  -ppli-t , -pti-e docotto  prodi       lo,ipotMtc ociTblo    fornr  clh-uad.     E-- foo lcit  ontor p.l00cc, (ocludlog  -rtd
0000,cd coI,ito - 6k N                . to  oio  o ldoetao  toed, ..ade.           (to      Icd rrooployd b       Inc r didloghoout.                I-doce --tc   Det.1o-
q    -,:i Io   so  o, (nodepoocoslo-    odlso  I  di.crhuclti,h  to-               otIot In  _aiou  -ototiec  arc nt ouptoo i.b
quirte-oc00   t te  Iccod by05  bs-d 0  physIologBIcal roode f00  00                   Fea1r foopot-t) - Focu1e  lohor Eono as peco-togo   of cocIlahor foror.
oci acfyfty  td Iroch nooldotoo   roo Iooctetol crpot_tt, body            dcotco(r007-Lbhot Eo-e Sol furefg. forcetry. hootiog cod filehfog
uOtt (00  c-to at houchltld Ion.Lid.c  foco    L.hoc (cr00 toi                                                                   00,cccuiIc    ,tfnrr.o
too otona  utdoof ornofoIcot   t dy             otot  coctoo  of pro-tonolcly, uotro ccd  000pncco of toellborOt
coPi,.c -rotpolo uf fod'1ndo..csppyo  food Sc dr'flcod o                                ocoto   ueIecol-fcl  so   n   ode-Poiletcn
clot.Otoloto f  fc  iloootrocosabishd  T  IS  poolo  Ot      ecfofy  ars  rcnueotd  c  ocl, e-.  odfoda  ohrtoooa
a  llcoalocoro   f  otef  oa   srcl  ptdyco   0tat                                 rcctgoo  ttl   obcdfrol otlto  o   l   go   epcctol
Sfgoono    6na potl  cs. atfrtg  for tIE. on  oyd  cpoold   by                         cr   orntoclooot
Ch I oe  t4Mrd torcaiSc  race (nor choocod - -fSoc  Statls potei nol-d               COCOlOTiT
codtoag f00 . i-b ver ,i crr              geldo    f_ chite   grodro p-c- 00c         Torooa-  -O -c-Io   fo.t(cn            .o oSnd k.Iod  ocolod.  by rf coo e         Si  
ruiop the Tonood d-ld    doofod  foot, (oft                                                frio
poroec,  ritoorp      tyeoc.o~rs   Vprot.dd  oroc                         000
'L'               ;hIf                                                                  of--  houseFf.d  hods ...t  i,-11,1p__~              ..    5.db     d- 1
PnvOooo   ith(etr    ,ycoooo   focrflf   oa"
ion ut boorS  fbof  tIto  ocd iur~~~~~~~~ raro.d,                         (OrVO,h,,- IT TAERCOLT Clff
ifac Io 'I'll irV -nItotnh   iold- o I, nc            e                               .-.. eldtcrriraroorfcocoas oo-cr-r-rto b.oh J,ot .-h.o.  iro-.t-drb .rcthoto
rtor.oaoloro  irtyortsotiothirh..                      olslutoooorroitooclo.rrltrbooiootoof_-                  conki .d  c
runto  0 tft  cte  toocon o  touicioo-rtcl  otan.codtorl .     orr2tirrpty  'Ooproo    :o-tl,o~--clot                ,-d--    1p-
rorbo  rO pooplh    'rorol197,  -dhay  Pc, rl  rt'yt taVERoo00ufTdY hir
.ofncoo   .oot:rotturb   nocco  soocc,roroo   r ,rrocodor      _totuAoo  RloE l   ouocyIcor[-t                   b  rul  e-.ocPcoorr
0Ocr-     virr-r-ouu.u   ror-o Voorndhrerl--.rptiofo                                    lrtledobcIo     I...... i-eoltn   Iuc-oi-1looscporpc
rod,,sot'ol   .cTr:ytaoco   rcuorrpot otpp.rdritc.ptvoclr.roooO    00,o.trv   .rdo   noci-.toooclttoroot--.
to      oo-a  'to.o- rdoodc   b0-eh0101-  yoaoohi                         leouo     P_~trro htor   h-t       ..' .t.. I0 flor  ''t   om.        r     
.to  rr        p IfiectooP,dvcu-oc-for-'o.p7tcir-.Otouo,b'00                                                       ,,0
'r-o:to-Od oc-        0--    _00.70h-0",
to  cry'-'t.:.  p0-  <~~'otu::   ..r-hioc  ott  boil: .oototvoco.                                                             -.',.00'..   11.0-0-~P
T., .1,   t,hd~~~~ --c'   rl   o.dtoo   '.,Vct~
-1i- 'he f-jl;  -le, -,t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'



- 26--                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
CA2MW0N
~0?JKIC ~EZO2?i' DlATA
(AakussT&Fina,I rmillions  f U.S. doUllrs)
Actuae.1jete                                          966..  19 71 - 1976 -   :.979-17
197  1972      1976        199      191 i.    1                     7691    1-98     19559                        92
RATIONAkL ACCOUTS                                                   i 39
5-Yeear Average at 1974- 1975 Prices &Fx~change ats            Aeoe ,unnual Growth Rates             As Percent cf IDY
Closs Domestic Product            1,50.92,032.5  2,20.   2,0.               ,4993'   o                .       .      .4     5.         11-        *      0.
Gains from Terms of Trade (-         1,       -17        '' 1      67 a       -40   -125.0      1.0        -33.5      .                  -1.'    2.4  ~*
V Sso Domestic :ocome            1,d-  --,           2-,-7r   -2    7t :    -,M-  7,7                .3    2.4    5.9    4:4          T17    7=.     100.
Loport (inci. NB'S)                 498,5    644.3    '04.1    955.0          981.6  1,11.2.3   ~ 6.7    1.3    5.2    2.6             313.5   34.4    31.0
oxors   por       or  cpacity)   4              J5        =8,3                         -992.3        7.4    2.2    5.1    2.7           30.2   30.4.   27.c
Resource,Gap                                                      5449-.u  d6  1.5  Mtj.              .               .      .                   =5 
Consumpttion Expenditures         1,253.9  1,729.6  1,927.4  2,249.4    2>,450.3  3,065.0            8.7    1 .7    4.9    5.3          84.3   51.0    85.3
onvestroent   "  (mncl. stocks)   184.3    376.2    463.5    639.8           681.i    647.9          .9    2.0   10.2       .2         12.4   23.0    i8.2
Domestic Savinge                    233.3    285.3    359.2    527.8          553.7    527.4         6.3    5.7   1.1.1       -         15.7   19.0    14.7
National. Savings                   177.7    242.0    304.4    457.2          473.2    418.6         7.2    5.0.   11.4   -1.5          12.0  1.6.5    11.6"
MERCHANISEzz.  TPD                            Ansnual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percenit of Total
TsMorts
Capital goods                      4o.5      89.1    160.2    275.7         336.6    477.6        16.9   20.2   12.8    9.6           25.4   29.8    30.2
Thtermaediat  goads (9"fuals)   87.3    133.6    257.2    393.3            510.1    832.8          8.9   32.8   14.8   12.9           45.7   42.6    51.4
Fuels and related materials         8.3      15.2      40.6      93.5        -         -          12.9   28.7      .      -            7.2   10.2      -
of which:  Petroleumn             5.3      15.2     40.6      93.8         -         -         12.9   28.7                           7 -  2   10.2   -
,ota7M.ercoh.4Exprts (cif)                 7-2         c3-     924 18.2   ,Z  ~   1,:2           12:2   18.5   14.5    94            10.    ___0_10.
PrL-ary oroducts (cxl. fujels)   243.6    199.9    469.3    739.4          882.5  1,306.9         6.8   16.7   1-2.0C  10.0           93.2  2'4.2    -6
"s,ets and related  ataerials      -         -         -       102.3       107.9    120.0 D                               2.7           -       .
ot whch:  Petroleum             -         -                  102.3       107.9    120.0           .              .      2.7           -    1-1.6      .
(45ra,isfactured zoods             14.6      20.9    34.i1     13.           41.2      79.1        7.4   22.2   1.6.7   13.9          6.5      4.2
-tona  Merch. Expo:rts (fob)      137-2      =3        57r.4    78C   J03T1_6~ 7                   6.9   16.9   12.5~   9.4                 1  '.0
Tfourism and Border Trade
Merchandise Trsde 'ndic.s                       Aeage 1974-75 * 100
Export Price Index                 4.(72     7.       99.      135.2       155.7    171.8         9.8   10.0   10.0    4.1
import Price index                43.7      58.9    107.9    128.9         165.6    1-93.5        7.0   15.1    9.0    7.g
Terms.of Trade Index               91.9     97.0      92.4    104.9         94.0      88.8        1.5   .1.5       .9   .2.0
Exports Volume Index               75.2     93.6    108.9    126.1.        143.2    181.1.        4.1    2.4    7.8    6.2
VALUII AIDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data an 1974-751 Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Grovth Pates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      522.4    659.7    752.9    872.1          964.9  1,138.1         5.5    3.6    5.5    4.5            34.7   32.2    30.c
In.dustry and ,ii~ing  _I       262.1    374.8    439.3    570.2          683.2    863.5        10. 4    3.1    9.6    7.2          17.4   21.0    23,0
Son'IcV                 ~~~~~~ ~~722.4    998.0  1,076.5  1267 0    1411'3  1 717 0       8.2    1.6    3.6    5.2           47.    46.8    46.-
TO Osi                         7l55      rT                                                       7.6 72.5'26.4 7.4                -,M1      =0.        0-
01412 7:0:A2,2                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of ODP
(Counral loveronean,rcrert prices and exchange rates)                                                                              iLz i2m           9=
>L,,rreclt 3eceiptg              129.3    27P.9    439.0    777.3          536.0       .         12.3   17.7   14.9       ..         17.3   15.9         -
,urreno Fxpenditures             129.8    185,0   411L;        713.6       624.0       ..         7.3   16.4   10.1        ..        15.1   15.1
3udgetary Savings                  -.5      24.9      19.       o-3.7      212.0       ...               27.6   25.4       ..2.2               .8
Cther Public Sector  ,/           13.8         .8     77.3       ..        -26.0o       ..                 .       .       . 
Pu~blic Eector Investmenit        69.3    120.6    291.0         ..        573.2       ..        14.8   26.1    5.7       ..9.8
UfS $   I.ao
X20TEXPEEODIT!JR2 DETAILS                   Actual                   Prelimn. Po           D    LONAt end 19 74/75 P and ER
AS 3 Total Current Expenid.)              i9 7    19L7        9        17  9 78 19 81        PUBLIC SECTOR                      Fosrth  Plan    % of T-tal
Fduncticn                                 116.     IT77       23.5      17.0      ..NDVESTMT PROGRAM                               (19 76 / 77  - 1980 /81)
Cti;tr Social Services                       .7     6.9       1.0.5     10."      .          Social Sectors                            453.2        20.1
A,griculture                               5.6      3.7        4.5       4.6      .          Agriculture                               365.1        16.2
Otte- Economic Services                   116       30        13.6      1.        ..         Industry and Mining                        85.9         3.8
kdml,nistrationl and Defense              39.5    29.6        426       4.         .         Power                                     330.5        14.7
8.5     4.1.       4.'      .j,                   Transport and conmnmications             558.7        3.
Tota-l Cuxrrent Expenditures             100.0   100.0       100.0    T20.0   1O-            Other                                    160.07-
_______________________________________________________________________Total__EToal nEipendt s es              2,23.4        100.
ooLETED 7ZNrDIATORS                                  i960.      196 7    197 1    1976         FIXANICING
sacatdfrom 3-year averaged data)              1965       197 1     197 6    1981
"Terage lOOP.                           .. ~~~~~~~7-n        b.       Jr             Public S..ctsr Savings                65~2.0       25.2
utoocrt Elasticity                                    .           .81       .54      .89          Program aid counterpart               295.0         13.1
Marginal DDnestic Savings Rate                        ..          .08       .23     .28           Foreign Project Aid                 1.3046 4        "5 0
marginal Na-lional Savings Rate                       ...08                 .14      .24           Total Financinxg                    ,253.4         t
10l3c5 oopoTE o01                                Total1 Labor Forc  9/-Value Added Per Wore  ('19  -                                       Pr-ices  Exc. R 
00- 0GR-C0F~p                 In Millions         13 of Toal9 /1-'4                               DoJ..0llars   ?ercrn   f  vrge           1 
19 1        19 4 ~q7             O9 rowth Rate                1 9        19          19          9 -       Growth Rate
r:2r2~~~~~~t2n0  ~  ~          89~4       31.3       30.6          4.7               .
-             33,223   6~~~~~8,63  03   23      .3           4,7               .
ce ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~io                         0.           33.
7-7, =-707 77                                           -          -
*-on aopllcab e           ni- 1  or fegl-ghite           I.Inldig  astruc   eadphA    tolities.
-ot aiailable         --less than half th               2/ Modern Sector only.
smallest unit shown.          1Public sector savings, including stahil-cation, fund surplas, l'ess a.zOrtizcatior. of 700u112- Jebt.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                Amount
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number     Year   Borrower       Purpose                    Bank   IDA /1  Undisbursed
Six Credits and seven Loans havTe been fully                55.7      73.2        -
disbursed
161-CM    1969   Cameroon       Education I                          11.7       0.0 /2
320-CM    1972   Cameroon       Education II                          9.0       3.6
935-CM    1973   Cameroon       Roads II                   24.0                 0.2
983-CM    1974   Cameroon       Livestock                  11.6                 1.4
1039-CM    1974   Cameroon       Cocoa                       6.5                 1.9
574-CM    1975   Cameroon       Niete Rubber Project                 16.0       2.2
575-CM    1975   Cameroon       DFC - Small- and Medium-
Scale Enterprises                  3.0       1.6
S4-CM    1976   Regifercam   Railways                      2.3                 0.7
1245-CM    1976   Cameroon       Education III              17.0                14.3
1321-CM    19376   NPAC          Second Douala Port         15.0                 7.0
672-CM    1977   Cameroon       Plaine des M'Bo
Rural Develop.                     2.0       0.9
673-CM    1977   Cameroon       Technical Assistance                  4.5       3.9
723-CM    1977   Cameroon       Rural Devep. Fund                     7.0       6.0
1391T-CM   1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM             7.0                 5.5
1392-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second SOCAPALM            18.0                14.1
749-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                          6.5       5.7
1494-CM    1977   Cameroon       Feeder Roads                4.6                 4.6
1508-CM    1977   Cameroon       Second CAMDEV              15.0                12.2
776-CM    1978   Cameroon       Zapi East Integrated
Agric.                             8.5       8.2
784-CM    1.978   Cameroon      Western Highlands
Rural Develop.                    13.0      13.0
763-CM    L978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice                    14.5       5.1
1512-CM    L978   Cameroon       Second SEMRY Rice          14.5                14.5
1515-CM    1978   Cameroon       Third Highway              16.5                 4.2
TOTAL                                   207.7    168.9    130.8
of which has been repaid                9.5       5.3
TOTAL now outstanding                   198.2    163.6
Amount sold                     7.7
of which has been repaid    5.0         2.6
TOTAL now 'held by Bank and
IDA 1/                                195.5    163.6
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                        80.6      50.2    130.8
/1   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/2   Balance of US$37,087.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1979)
Investment   Fiscal
Number      Year   Obligor        Type of Business         Amount in US$ millions
Loan    Equity    Total
311-CM         1975   BATA          Shoe Factory               -      0.38       0.38
355-CM        1977   SAFACAM I    Rubber Plantation            -      0.81       0.81
430-CM         1979   SAFACAM II   Rubber Plantation           -      0.40       0.40
452-CM         1979   ALUCAM        Non-ferrous metal        7.00     0.88       7.88
Total gross commitments                                        -      2.47       9.47
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales   -          0.25       0.25
Total commitments now held by IFC                            7.00     2.22       9.22
Total undisbursed                                            7.00     1.13       8.13
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 320                Second Education Project:  US$9 million Credit
of June 28, 1972; Effectiveness Date:
February 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
All project-financed schools have been constructed and are in
operation except for the adult vocational training center (CENAFOP) in Douala,
which is expected to open in September 1979. Technical assistance is being
recruited for the CENAFOP. The preinvestment studies have been completed.
Project implementation is about three years behind schedule due to delays in
construction of the CENAFOP and the original Credit closing date of June 30,
1979, has been postponed to June 30, 1982.
Cr. No. 429                Second Highway Project:  US$24 million Credit of
Ln. No. 935                 September 26, 1973; Effectiveness Date:  December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978; and US$24
Loan of same date; Effectiveness Date: December 20,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Construction of the Pont du Noun-Foumban road (50 km) was satis-
factorily completed in December 1976, of the Figuil-Mora section (163 km)
of the Garoua-Mora road in July 1977, and of the Douala-Pont du Nkam road
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
(767 km) in July 1978. The road maintenance study and the reconnaissance
study of timber evacuation roads are completed. Technical assistance is being
provided to the Department of HLghways since April 1977 and has been extended
to March 1980. The project suffered from the 1973/74 world-wide inflation,
which nearly doubled its total cost. Consequently, the Government agreed to
postpone construction of the Garoua-Figuil road section (95 km). A supple-
mentary credit of US$15 million was approved in March 1976 to help alleviate
the burden imposed on the Government by the project's cost overrun. Because
of currency realignments, there was a cost overrun of US$9 million which the
Government financed in its FY79 budget.
Loan No. 983               Livestock Project:  US$11.6 million Loan of May 14,
1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Physical implementatLon is progressing satisfactorily, although
delays in implementation as well as unanticipated price increases have led to
cost overruns. The tsetse-fly eradication campaign is expected to clear about
500,000 of the originally planned total of 800,000 ha. The credit scheme has
exceeded the appraisal target of 150 loans, and the rate of repayment is good.
Slaughterhouse construction is nearing completion. Yaounde is expected to
start operating during the second half of 1979 and Douala during the first
half of 1980. Additional training of slaughterhouse managers is under con-
sideration. The SODEPA ranches have become the least successful of the
project components, in spite of completed physical development of two of
the ranches, and acceptable progress towards the completion of the third.
Lower than expected technical performance, as well as delayed implementation
and rising cattle prices have now cast serious doubt on the continued financial
viability of these ranches. Alternate means of dealing with the financial
situation are being analyzed in preparation for discussions to be held with
Government. A second livestock project, appraised in February/March 1979,
would help Government expand the successful components of this project.
Loan No. 1039              Cocoa Project:  US$6.5 million Loan of September 18,
1974; Effectiveness Date:  February 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Farmers responded well to last year's price increase (from CFAF
220 to CFAF 260 per kg for Grade 1 cocoa) but project implementation has been
hampered by Government's decision to replace SODECAO's pre-cooperatives by new
independent cooperatives (SOCOODER), and by SODECAO's worsening management
situation and performance. After reviewing the recent reorganization study,
Government has indicated willingness to take strong measures to reform
SODECAO and strengthen its management. The post of general manager, however,
is still vacant 18 months after the last manager left.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 574                Niete Rubber Estate Project:  US$16 million Credit
of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 1,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
HEVECAM has now overcome initial difficulties and is well organized
to carry out its program. A cost overrun is expected due chiefly to a
combination of: (a) inflation greater than foreseen; (b) changes in the
method of land clearing; and (c) Government's desire to upgrade labor housing
standards and the number of professionals in training. Government, however,
increased its participation in the capital by CFAF 1.4 billion, in support
of the Project. A follow-up project was appraised in April 1979. A first
phase report on the Kribi master plan study has been received and the second
phase is underway. The planting program under the project has been reduced
from 5,800 ha to 4,200 ha, 1,600 ha being transferred to the follow-up project.
Cr. No. 575                Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:  US$3
million Credit of July 1, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit
is almost fully committed and disbursements are well underway. A follow-up
project is being prepared, pending internal improvements in Banque Camerounaise
de Developpement.
Ln. No. S-4                Douala Railway Station and Marshalling Yard Engineer-
ing Project: US$2.3 million Loan of June 25, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.
The feasibility study for the new Douala Station and detailed
engineering has been completed.  A preliminary design study for the Yaounde
locomotive running shed and rolling stock maintenance facilities has been
completed. The consulting services initially provided under the Second
Railway project are being carried out, but additional technical assistance
will still be needed to implement the recommendations of the consultants.
As planned, this engineering loan is being refinanced under the Fourth Railway
Project.
Ln. No. 1245-T             Third Education Project:  US$17 million Third
Window Loan of July 2, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
December 31, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The lower secondary technical school in Douala has been completed
and will be in operation by the start of the 1979/80 academic year. The
remaining 11 construction contracts have not yet been awarded and construc-
tion is now about 15 months behind schedule. Architectural technician train-
ing programs are underway in temporary facilities, pending completion of



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
construction of the institute for agricultural techniques (ITA), Dschang.
Technical assistance staff is pierforming well. There has been limited
progress with preinvestment studies for a future education project and turther
preparatory work has been delayed by six months. Project management continues
to be weak and project implementation is slowed down by inadequate provision
of counterpart funds. Continued technical assistance for the project unit
is considered necessary.
Ln. No. 1321               Second Douala Port Project:  US$15 million Loan
Cr. No. 657                of September 24, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  June 15,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981 and US$10
million Credit of same date: Effectiveness Date:
June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction started in December 1976 and is proceeding reasonably
well. Proposals to incorporate facilities at the container berth to handle
increasing volumes of roll on roll off traffic have been accepted by donors.
Although latest cost estimates indicate a small overrun, this has been cov-
ered by pledges of additional financing from some of the other donors and
Government.
Cr. No. 672                Plaine des M'Bo Rural Development Project:  US$2
million Credit of February 28, 1977; Effectiveness
Date: August 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The 1978 results show that the yields obtained under medium and
heavy mechanization stay below the financial break-even point. Double crop-
ping appears impractical while agronomic trials are being continued. There
have been delays in conducting experiments with small farm models with low
mechanization in preparing a settlement scheme for full development of the
Plaine. The experimentation program is being improved, with emphasis on
developing an adequate data base on smallholder rice cultivation. Government
has agreed to contribute an additional US$955,000 to extend the project to end
1980.
Cr. No. 673                Technical Assistance Project:  US$4.5 million Credit
of June 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 14,
197'7; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The recruitment of long-term advisory consultants is in process.
The senior agricultural economist and the agronomist have joined their posts
in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Association has approved their initial
work program. Delays have occurred in the appointment of a financial analyst
in the Ministry of Agriculture but a candidate is now being selected. Five
short-term consultancies required for the preparation of bankable projects
in several sectors have also been approved. With the arrival of the first
experts in the field, it has become evident that a strengthening of the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Project's central coordination unit and a streamlining of certain admin-
istrative procedures are required to allow the experts to work more effect-
ively and project implementation to proceed smoothly. These matters have been
thoroughly discussed with the Government and administrative difficulties have
lessened recently.
Cr. No. 723                Rural Development Fund Project:  US$7 million
Credit of August 4, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
The well improvement program is up-to-date while the other village
water supply components--boreholes and small dams construction--are behind
schedule, mainly caused by delays in the arrival of materials and equipment.
All project staff are in place; however, local personnel costs are consider-
ably higher than expected. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials
through ICB is on schedule. A hand-pump test program is underway to help
decide on the type to be bought for equipping wells and boreholes. The Rural
Engineering Service garage and workshop have been successfully reorganized.
SEMRY has been reminded to speed up implementation of the bottomland develop-
ment sub-project. About 100 loans have been allocated under the stall-fatten-
ing credit scheme. Procedures to provide loans for market gardening develop-
ment have been approved by IDA; motor pumps would be used, procured under
local competitive bidding. Government and FSAR have been asked to improve the
participation of Government services responsible for individual sub-projects
and to improve the accounting and monitoring system.
Ln. No. 1392               Second SOCAPALM Project:  US$18 million Loan and
Ln. No. 1391T              Third Window Loan:  US$7 million of August 25,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
New plantings are proceeding satisfactorily but the production
potential from earlier plantings is not being achieved due to labor problems,
inadequate maintenance and processing difficulties. In consequence SOCAPALM's
revenues from mature plantings are below expectations. In agreement with
Government appropriate measures have been taken to strengthen the company
including the recruitment of new staff for certain key posts. The present
management team is committed to implementing the Bank's recommendations.
Government recently approved a 5th capital increases. Progress has been made
toward establishing the Coastal Estates Center to provide services to a group
of plantation companies with common interests, including CAMDEV and HEVECAM
(Loan 1508-CM and Credit 574-CM).
Cr. No. 749                Feeder Roads Project:  US$4.6 million Credit and
Ln. No. 1494               US$6.5 million Loan of December 7, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
After a six-month delay in selecting the technical assistance team,
it is now working satisfactorily and the starting up of the project is



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
gathering speed. The Central Feeder Roads Unit has been established, equip-
ment ordered and local staff recruited and trained.  Major field operations
are expected to start around October 1979, about one year behind schedule.
Cr. No. 763                Second SEMRY Rice Project:  US$14.5 million Credit
Ln. No. 1512               of Felbruary 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 14,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984; and US$14.5
million Loan of February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
April 14, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and with highly
qualified staff. Contracts have been signed for the main civil works and
engineering services, and orders have been placed for over 90 percent of the
force account equipment. Costs have remained well within appraisal estimates.
The main civil, works are expected to be completed on schedule in June 1979;
force account works are progressing satisfactorily. The co-donor, Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), has agreed to finance a comple-
mentary program of US$2 million involving support components in project eval-
uation, agricultural research, livestock and fisheries development and a
reafforestation program.
Ln. No. 15908              Second CAMDEV Project:  US$15 million Loan of
February 1, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Second CAMDEV project started well with land clearing, proceed-
ing on schedule at Kompina and with excellent nursery material available for
the first plantings. All of the key posts have now been filled with competent
personnel acceptable to the Bank. Some rescheduling of the planting program
set at appraisal will be necessary and completion of the project will be
delayed.
Ln. No. 1515               Third Highway Project:  US$16.5 million Loan of
April 3, 1978; Effectiveness Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Prc,ject implementation is progressing well. Construction of the
Garoua-Figuil. road is substantially completed and incorporate some changes
which, although not entirely justified, have been accepted by the Bank. The
Government hired an economist/statistician to assist in transport planning
within the Ministry of Transport. Because of the currency realignments, there
is an overrun of US$4.9 million (16 percent of the total project cost)
which will be borne by the Government.
Cr. No. 784                Western Highlands Project:  US$13 million Credit
of April 17, 1978; Effectiveness Date: December 8,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Recruitment procedures of other technical aid personnel are pro-
gressing welL. Transfer of lower level extension staff from the Ministry of
Agriculture to UCCAO has started according to proposed phasing of appraisal.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Cr. No. 776                 Zapi East Integrated Rural Development Project:
US$8.5 million Credit of April 17, 1978; Effective-
ness Date: October 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Key staff have been appointed. A contract has been signed by ZAPI
with "Planning Assistance, Inc.," for provision of management and planning
training and the development of a monitoring system. Letters of agreement have
been signed with all cooperating agencies. Bidding documents have been issued
for the provision of vehicles and for coffee hulling and grading equipment.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
UNITED ]REPUBLIC OF CAM4EROON
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3-1/2 years.
(b)  Project prepared by the Government, SNEC, and
the Bank Group.
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to consider the
project: December 1975.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 26, 1978.
(e)  Negotiations completed: July 5, 1979.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness: End-November, 1979.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   The Government will:
(i)  implement through the Ministry of Health the
recommendations of the study of health education
(para. 56);
(ii) review SNEC's concession contracts for the purpose
of standardizing and simplifying these (para. 37);
(iii) make adequate budget proposals for water
consumption (para. 47);
(iv) cause the municipalities to settle their
water bills (para. 47);
(v)  insure municipal payments for water
consumption (para. 47); and
(vi) increase tariffs as necessary (para. 46).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
B.   SNEC will:
(i)  monitor the technical, financial, administrative
and training achievements (para. 43);
(ii)  abolish the Amortissement de Caducite (para. 48);
(iii)  create an internal auditing unit (para. 48);
(iv)  review concession contracts with the Government
(para. 37);
(v)  prepare annually financial forecasts statements
over a five-year period to test the rate of return
covenant (para. 46);
(vi)  continue to adhere to the debt limitation covenant
of the previous Loan Agreement (para. 45);
(vii)  reach an understanding with the Bank before under-
taking additional projects costing over US$1 million
(para. 45); and
(viii)  set its tariff in order to obtain rates of return
of at least 4 percent in FY80 and 5 percent in
each fiscal year until FY83, at least 6 percent
in FY84 and at least 7 percent in each FY there-
after (para. 46).
C.   Condition of Effectiveness:
(i)  the fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness
of the loan agreement between SNEC and CDC; and
(ii)  the conclusion of a satisfactory onlending agreement
between the Borrower and SNEC are special conditions
of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para. 50).



M A LI               /            N                                        12-                                  1  
-P  NIGER  "  (HAD                       ~~~~~~~~~Tb, -lp 6., h   b,    fl ,p,eOyh
3 o m 2 N I G E                                            R I   A D  ,                               f   CH  D
UPPER(     Id _                                                   Tbe-,2 oN                 I  G      E   R I n7,,pr0
VOLTA   r(W' a abs  df .hV                                                                                                                                 5,VRc
X X:;: f    Q  DE; ;;t   z CONGOJ    Z A          dg,so,r  P,s Ra E  aus f  ri                                  (
I.   Sft!` k -dosy,. &fh., -,fl
G E10-                        I                   A         b-                                              U -
UIE    REU CENTO AL AFRICAN 
EMPIRE                                                                                     'K>-.
E                                                  N    I  G    E   R   I  A                  ? uNDJAMENA
CAE OON\.                                                                                               Do12Er 
O~~ooo  GDEReA  I  I                                   ~~~~~C                                                       H A      D
CONGO1f    ZAE I R E
N~ GAEBRN                                                                                                                      Woo.S  5t
1b              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT   N                                                                                o \O,OoO A                 AR
-10                                                                                                                                                                   ir
E -oitrt  Sy,mr t(SNEC)                        0   20     6      1( 120   14  60 
/   Mundembo                    ondet Con stl                                o      iot "KILOMETERS  '
0     0    4'0   60   00   00            ,\
PAVED? ROADS
UNPAVED C_ADS                                                                                              "IN
- -NI/ -CX Ppc,_-7__:oo.no
-G-tut
----.--.--. Dw-e
N I G E R I 
4.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~.
N                                               = ArUTIP     I                      5                     N
A  F CONRTINEITAL
0  f  71f  j  -                                          2i
bo~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



