Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10766
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1107-KE)
JUNE 23, 1992
MICROFICHE C'liPY
Report No. 10766--KE Type: (PCR)
HIANS, THIA/ X31742 / TF9 013/ OJEDD1
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY
CTB          -      Central Tender Board
EMS          -      Education Media Service
FDP          -      Fourth Development Plan, 1979-1983
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
ITC          -      Industrial Training Center
KESI         -      Kenya Education Staff Institute
KIE          -      Kenya Institute of Education
KNEC         -      Kenya National Examinations Council
LIB          -      Limited International Bidding
MEPD         -      Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MOAG         -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOBE         -      Ministry of Basic Education
MOE          -      Ministry of Education
MOHE         -      Ministry of Higher Education
MOL          -      Ministry of Labour
MTB          -      MOE Tender Board
MWD          -      Ministry of Water Development
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
PTTC         -      Primary Teacher Training College



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD HANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Office of Ditector-General
Opetatmns Evaluation
June 23, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Kenya Fifth Education
Proiect (Credit 1107-RE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya Fifth Education Project (Credit 1107-RE)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Yves Rovani
by H. Eberhard Kbpp
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used oy recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT  .207-KE)
TABLE OF CONT`JjNTS
Pag No.
Preface . ........................................... i
Evaluation Summary ............................................  iii
I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ............................................ 1
Project Background ...........................................    1
Project Objectives and Description  ...............          ....................  2
Project Design and Organization .    ....................................  3
Project Implementation ...........................................  3
Project Results ............................................. 4
Project Sustainability ............................................  5
Bank Performance During Project Cycle ...........           .....................  6
Borrower's Performance During Project Cycle ........           ....................  7
Project Relationships ...........................................   7
Consulting Services ...........................................    8
Project Documentation and Data .     ....................................  8
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III .....................  8
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Major LessGns Learned .....          ............. 8
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Major Lessons
Learned  .................................  9
III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits ...........................................   14
Project Timetable ............................................                           15
Credit Disbursernents ..................                                                 16
Project Implementation ..................  17
Project Costs and Financing ..................   18
Allocation of Loan Proceed ..................  20
Project Results ..................  21
Project Studies ..................  22
Status of Credit Covenants  ..................   23
Use of Bank Resources ..................  24
Mission Data ..................  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1      -      Participants in Completion Mission
Annex 2      -      Record of Project Progress Reports Submitted
Annex 3      -      Civil Works Procurement Schedule



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
VIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1107-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Education Project in Kenya,
for which Credit 1107-KE in the amount of US $40 million (SDR. 31.4 million) was approved
on May 7, 1981. The credit was closed on September 30, 1991 five years behind schedule. It
was 97 percent disbursed and the last disbursement was on February 11, 1992. The undisbursed
balance of US$1.4 million (SDR 1.0 million) was cancelled on April 23, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operation
Division of the Eastern Africa Department (AF2) assisted by the Nairobi Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III, and the Borrower (Part II)).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in June 1991 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1107-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives (para. 5)
The main objectives of the project, which formed part of the educational development
plan for 1979-1983, were to improve quality, efficiency and relevance through:
(a)   training for primary and secondary schools' management, high and middle-level
technicians in agriculture and water development, and skilled workers for
industry; and
(b)   analysis of business education needs.
With the cancellation of a water development component, substituted items in line with
these objectives, emphasized improved teacher training, science equipment, curriculum
development, textbooks, educational technology and further analysis of training needs.
Implementationi Experience (paras. 8 - 14)
The major development delav of five years was due mainly to the cancellation in 1985
of the Kenya Water Resources Training Institute (KWRTI), and its substitution by a wide-ranging
set of elements which proved time consuming to implement. The required training planned for
KWRTI was provided instead by tLe Harambee Institutes of Technology. However, certain
implementation delays were inevitable because of many weaknesses in the Borrower's
-irement and counterpart funding. Widespread piocurement delays for civil works, furniture
equipment are attributable to lack of expertise in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
cumbersome Government bid evaluation procedures. The procurement specialists funded by the
Credit were not recruited due to the Borrower's resistance to the high-level salaries required.
Then, the system requiring that the PIU bid evaluation be reviewed successively by the Ministry
of Education and Central Tender Boards also led to inordinate delays. The weakness in timely
counterpart funding was due directly to non-inclusion, in both the Government's annual budget
and printed estimates, of the funds required for efficient project implementation. Because of the
overall shortage of Government funds relative to ongoing and new demands on the Ministry of
Education (MOE), funding allocation for the project did not receive the necessary priority (para.
11). In addition, the Special Account meant to facilitate the disbursement process, was not
efficiently operated by the Borrower.



- iv -
ResultA (paras. 15, 16)
Despite implementation delays, project objectives were fully realized, excepting
computerization in the MOE Planning Unit, and KWRTI training for water development which
was provided alternatively (para. 15). Substitution of elements for the cancelled KWRTI
enhanced improved quality efficiency and rJevance. The three stidies undertaken had an
important impact on the development of Government policy for the education sector. Though
a profound evaluation is not yet possible, there are strong indications that the project had a
significant impact on improving educational quality, efficiency and relevance through improved
curriculum development, teacher training, science teaching, textbook availability and educational
management. Provision of extensions to the Mombasa and Kisumu Industrial Training Centers
had a particularly apt impact on human resource development through graduating technicians
much in demand in the labor market. This is also true for the graduates from the new
Department of Range Management and Faculties of Forestry and Agriculture supported by the
project; a positive impact is 21so expected on economic and environmental aspects. However,
some concern is expressed regarding ce-tinued demai.d for increased output of these graduates.
Finally, a significant impact has undoubtedly been made on the technological environment
through the modernization of computerization and educational media service provided in the
project.
Sustainability
Given the likelihood that Government budgeting constraints will continue, a certain risk
must persist for satisfactory sustainability of the project institutes supported. However, this risk
may well be mitigated to a reasonable extent, by .mproved management of public finances and
implementation of a policy of cost-aaaring with the beneficiaries of education and training now
introduced. In addition, policies on privatization and development of the informal sector will
help sustainability. The Education Sector Adjustment Program (Credit 2295-KE) and the
Universities Investment Project, both approved in 1991, will also introduce policy actions and
investment which will serve sustainability of the system as a whole. Continued donor support,
such as that from the African Development Bank, is also expected to play a role in ensuring
satisfactory sustainability of the project components.
Findings and Lessons Learned (paras 18-21, 39)
The following are the main findings. Overly ambitious and complex projects such as this,
comprising wide-ranging components, impose implementation burdens which lead to costly
delays- It is critical that the professional expertise required to ensure efficient procurement and
disbursement should be in place at project start-up. In this regard, prequalification of firms for
furniture and equipment supply is also desirable and the use of limited international bidding and
iiternational shopping are most appropriate for textbooks and journals/periodicals, respectively.
The role of a Project Coordination Committee, having representatives of the key ministries and
agencies concerned, remains capital for good project monitoring. Finally, the benefit from too
many posTponements of the Closing Date is doubtful.



-v -
The main lessons learned are as follows:
(a)    A project start-up seminar/workshop is necessary to familiarize the principal
personnel concerned with procurement and disbursement methods.
(b)    When there is continued inadequate counterpart funding and earlier Bank-
financed projects are still at a relatively early stage of completion, the Bank
should make a more profound evaluation of the Borrower's absorptive capacity
and ensure that the subsequent project and its conditionality reflect the
conclusions of such evaluation.
(c)    Pre-qualification for supply of furniture and equipment should be required and
competitive bidding for textbooks and journals/periodicals should be eased.
(d)    Through Borrower/Bank dialogue, procedures should be agreed to streamline an
unwieldy procurement system, and improve operation of the Special Account.
(e)    A Project Coordination Committee, having representatives from  the key
ministries and agencies involved, shouid regularly monitor project
implementation.
(f)    The costs and benefits of multiple postponements of the Credit Closing Date
should be assessed more thoroughly.
(g)    The appointment of private auditors should be encouraged where government
auditors are over burdened.
(h)    Project Units can generate long term institutional benefits when their various
functions are well integrated and when given sufficient time to become
operational.



PROJECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
--(CREDIT 1107-KE)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identi
-     Project Name: Fifth Education Project
Credit No:    1107-KE
-     RVP Unit:   Eastern Africa Department (AF2)
Country:     Kenya
.Sector:     Education
B.    Project Baclkground
1.    Sector Development Objectives. In support of the Government's Fourth Development
Plan 1979-1983 (FDP) the education sector placed emphasis on quality improvement, efficiency
and relevance, combined with fiscal restraint. In particular, the sector was expected to provide
the specialized training of middle and higher level manpower required for achievement of FDP
objectives, especially in agriculture, health, industry and water development.
2.    Policy Conext. The Government's education policy accordingly, emphasized quality
improvement through curriculum reform, improved educational management and teaching at
primary and secondary levels, strengthening inspection in the former and science teaching in the
latter. Adopted targets included free and universal primary education for seven years, modest
expansion of secondary education with increased fees, and a yearly expansion of five percent in
university enrollments. An ambitious target was set for adult literacy and emphasis was placed
on training community leaders.
3.    Linkages Between Project Sector and Macro Pe;icy Obiectives were fairly successfully
made by the project. Thus, targets were met on qut iy improvement through establishing an
educational managemrent institute and training over 10,000 primary and secondary school
administrators. The results of the study undertaken on business education were applied in
educational reform. The targets in specialized training for agriculture and industry were also
achieved. However, the ambitious targets for provision of a long cycle of free and universal
primary education alongside quality improvement, inevitably put pressure on public financing
capacity. In this regard, the appropriateness of the new 8:4:4 educational structure, introduced
in the course of project implementation, and where curriculum is being reviewed.



-2-
C.    Project Objectives and Description
4.    Project Objectiy. The main objectives of the project, which formed part of the
e tucational development plan of the FDP, comprised improving educational quality, efficiency,
and relevance through:
(a)    Training fwr primary and secondary schools' management, high and middle-level
technicians in agriculture and water development., and skiiled workers for
industry; and
(b)    Analysis of business education needs.
Other specific objectives within this ambit, included Credit amendments in 1585, !988,
1989 and 1990 were: modernization of educational technology through computerization; quality
improvement through provision of science equipment and rehabilitation of primary teacher
training collaves (PTTCs); and improving university teaching/learning and research through
provision of library resources.
5.    Proiect Components. The original project included construction, furnishing, equipping
and technical assistance for:
(a)    Kenya Education Staff Inrstitute (KESI), where 10,000 school management staff
would be trained;
(b)    Faculty of Agriculwire extension at Kabete with teaching, hostel and staff housing
provision to increase capacity to about 855 student places, and KibwezL Field
Station;
(c)    Coast Agriculture Institute with teaching, hostel and staff housing provision for
about 400 students;
(d)    Kenya Water Resources Training Institute with teaching, hostel and staff housing
provision for about 400 students;
(e)   Industrial Training Centers (ITC) at Kisumu and Mombasa with extensions by
96 and 132 trainee places respectively, and by about 180 and 90 hostel places,
respectively. I
Technical assistance provision includede  8.5 staff-years for specialist services and 50
staff- years for fellowship training, in additi-4 to support for a pre-investment study on
development of business education and training. Component (d) was cancelled in 1985, reducing
specialist services to 51.5 staff-years, and under Credit Amendments mentioned in para. 4, the
following additions were made: (a) computerization was supported in dte Kenya National
Examinations Council (KNEC), the University of Nairobi, and the Ministry of Educatioi. (MOE)
1 DANIDA was simultaneously providing agreed equipment and technical assistance.



Planning Unit; 2 (b) support for the Kenya Institute of Education (MIE) for its educational media
service (EMS) and curriculuir. dwvelopment; (c) science equipment for 800 secondary schools;
(d) rehabilitation for 15 PITTCs; (e) text-books for the University of Nairobi; (f) office equipment
and vehicles for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and support for stidies of manpower and
training needs under the National Manpower Developinent Committee, and for the Presidential
Workit.g Party on Education and Manpower Training,
D.    Project Design and Organisalioi
6.    The project was clearly conceive( to meet the developmnent needs of education and
training within the FDP. However, its design was rather complex, combining elements from six
ministries: MOB.< (basic education), MOHE (higher education), MOAG (agriculture), MEPD
(economic planrning and national development), MOL Oabor) and MWD (water development).
Thus, while the scope and scale of the project were highly relevant to its objectives, coordination
of activities among the responsible authorities in the various institutions and agencies to ensure
timely and efficient implementation, proved difficult. This aspect of project design was
responsible for much delay but, in due course, meeting this challenge strengthened the cohesion,
experience and competence of the PIU.
7.    The project was timely and adequately prepared. The provision of funds in 1980 under
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) favored prompt start up. However, the designs, prepared
by local consultants had weaknesses. In additicn, estimates for furniture and equipment at 12
percent of civil works, proved too low and late preparation of the relevant lists caused delay.
The series of Credit Amendments introduced, profoundly altered the project and led to much
implementation delay.
E.    Projec Implementation
8.    Critical Variances in Project Implementation. Postponement of the Closing Date five
times from June i), 1986 to September 30, 1991, constitutes the major variance between planned
and actual project implementation. This was ostensibly due to the cancellation of the KWRTI and
its substitution by a wide-ranging set of elements, but is overall attributable to three main factors;
(a) delays in procurement for civil works, furniture and equipment; (b) delays in counterpart
funding, leading to slow disbursement; and (c) Credit amendments including a wide variety of
additional itemns. Civil works delays are deemed partly attributable to weaknesses in some
consultant briefs relativp to appraised schedules of accommodation, proposed areas and cost
estimates. This nece...ated re-design .uring project implementation.
9.    However, widespread procurement delays for civil works, furniture and equipment are
attributable mainly to initial shortcomings in professional expertise in the PIU and slow decision
making in the rather cumbersome Government procurement procedures. Though funding was
provided for procurement specialist services, i. was not thus expended, due to the Bonower's
resistance to the high-level salaries required. Under current bid evaluation procedures, PIU
recommendations are reviewed ry the MOE Tender Board (MTB) which then submits its
recommendations for Central Tender Board (CTB) review. Some differences of opinion between
PIU, MTB, and CTE recommendations have often resulted in the price validity period being
2 The Ministry of Basic Educatiov. and the Ministry of Higher Education were amalgamated in 1983
to form the MOE.



-4 -
surpassed before the Bank received CTB recommendations. This led to frequent re-validation
of prices, and inevitably to further delays.
10.   Delays in procurement led to slow disbursements, a weakness exacerbated by lack of
timely counterpart funding. In this regard, and despite the PIU being rated best among Bank
projects by the Disbursement UP't for the quality of its presentations, professional weaknesses
have caused much delay. Main weaknesses concernect have been nadequate monitoring of
procurement and faulty withdrawal applications.
11.   Lack of timely counter-art funding is attributable to a weakness ir, Gevernment
budgeting, whereby the funds necessary for execution of this project had been included in the
Printed Estimates, as required but were reduced by Treasury on occasions. This situation
emerged because specific priority was g.ven to the project by the MOE, but which made no g
priori agreement with the Treasury to do so. Because of other heavy commitments, including
those accumulating from other Bank projects, the MOE has a difficult task of prioritization. In
addition, the Special Account, designed to facilitate smooth disbursement, has not operated well.
The Central Bank maintains the Special Account opered with an overseas Bank, but the PIU is
not kept informed of the status of that account. The system by which payment vouchers
following Treasury authorization are transmitted to the Central Bank and then to the overseas
Bank, has caused much delay. The Treasury is responsible for making applications to the Bank
for regular replenishment of the Special Account, but applications have been much delayed.
12.   Credit amendments and Closing Date pos.ponement per sg induced delays.  The
introduction of such a wide-ranging set of new items (para. 5) simultaneously put pressure on
PIU implementation capacity and reduced its commitment to timely execution. In this setting,
the weaknesses mentioned in paras. 9-11 came particularly into play. The reallocation of funds
following the amendments are given in Part III, Table 7. As shown in Part III, Table 7, much
funding originally planned for specialist services was used instead for fellowship training due to
Government resistance to recruitment of specialists; i. is not possible to evaluate at this stage to
what extent institution building was affected in this regard.
13.   The variances listed in para. 8 could to a large extent have been avoided by; (a) more
precise civil works designs; (b) initial recruitment in the PIU of the required trained technical
specialists; (c) timely counterpPrt funding, through including the project items concerned in
Government budgets and Printed Estimates as MOE priority; and (d) more efficient application
of Government procurement procedures and of the Special Account. Risks from lack of specialist
services had been identified at appraisal but not those related to (c) and (d) above. The rapid
decline in the Kenya currency value against the US dollar and rapid price escalation following
the outbreak of the Gulf War, which caused some implementation difficulties, could not have
been anticipated.
14.   While some actions were taken belatedly by the concerned authorities on counterpart
funding and improving application of procurement procedures to enable the project to be
completed fairly successfully, nevertheless, these actions were neither timely enough nor
sufficiently profound to avoid the major delays recorded.
F.    Major Results of the Project
15.   Project Objectives were fully realized, excepting those related to training for water
development and computerization in the MOE Planning Unit. The provision of the Kenya Water



-  -
Training Institute was cancelled as the required training was provided by the Haramnbee Institutes
of Technology. While the MOE Planning Unit computers were procured, they are being used
for word-processing rather than analytical planning, now undertaken on the Treasury computer.
With "savings" from cancellation of the water institute, project objectives were broadened through
the inclusion of additional components as outlined in paragraph 5, which emphasized improved
quality, efficiency and relevance. Thus, the additional components included modernization of
educational technology, advancing implementation of curriculum reform through greater provision
of PTTC facilities and secondary school science equipment, improving university
teaching/learning and research through increased textbooks, as well as additional studies. In
addition to the pre-investment study on business education already included, two studies were
undertaken: (a) to define policy for educational and vocational training, determine training needs
and develop a manpower data bank for the National Manpower Development Committee; and (b)
to review the philosophy, policies and objectives of education and training geared to sustained
growth, quality improvement and relevance within realistic financing constraints. The findings
of the study on business education were applied in implementing the Government's policy reform
to an 8:4:4 educational structure. The results of the other two studies provide key guidelines for
education and training development.
16.   ImpactLof P iect. While it is too early to make any profound evaluation of the project,
nevertheless, there are clear indications of impact along a wide front. The three studies have
provided not only a blueprint for development of Government policy for the education sector. but
also the rationale for two new IDA projects approved in 1991, the Education Sector Adjustment
Program (Credit 2295-KE) and the University Investment Project. Additionally, the project has
a noteworthy impact on improving educational quality efficiency and relevance, through the
training of over 10,000 administrators at KESI in educational management, improved teacher
training through rehabilitation of 15 PITCs, curriculum development in KIE, provision of
equipment for better teaching of science in 800 secondary schools, and of textbooks for
universities. This is confirmed regarding school management by an impact evaluation study
recently conducted.  The project has also had a significant impact on human resource
develoment through specialized industrial training in Mombasa and Kisumu ITCs, but especially
in pioneering the output of graduates from the new Department of Range Management at the
Kabete Faculty of Agriculture, and increasing graduates from the Faculty of Forestry at Moi
University (Eldoret), to serve the needs of Kenya and neighbouring countries. In addition to
graduates from the Coast Agricultural Institute, established under the project, these professionals
seem likely to have a long-term impact on the physical environment (and economic returns)
through forestry and rangeland development, as well as through reclamation of arid and semi-arid
lands and wastelands.  An important impact is clearly being made on the technological
environment through the computerization elements to modernize technology, especially the
University of Nairobi mainframe computer, the KNEC computer to streamline the examination
system and the Kenya Institute of Education EMS equipment. The EMS is gaining a reputation
even beyond Kenya, as a reference centre for modern development in the methodology of
educational media service delivery, especially for its impact through the use of cassettes, radio
and television, and its use also, by higher education Communications Departments.
G.    Project Sustainability
17.   The benefits attained as a result of the project are likely to be sustained in spite of current
budgetary and employment constraints. The Kenyan economy, which has continued to grow at
a rate of about an average five percent since independence, is also going through restructuring
and adjustment to further improve its performance in order to create an environment that will



-6 -
support and sustain the benefits accrued from the project. The Government is now implementing
a policy of cost-sharing *:ith beneficiaries of education and training; this should supplement the
limited Government budget and hence help sustain the quality of facilities and programs
developed by various components.  Similarly, the policies being implemented towards
privatisation and development of the informal sector, including the micro (Jua Kali) level, will
provide an environment and opportunities for employment of the various graduates of education
and training programs. Government programs that will develop and sustain quality and relevance
of the project institutions include: continued curriculum reform, expansion and improvement of
PTTCs, the enhancement of equipment and uork of the EMS, and MOE computerisation and
training under Credit 1673-KE (Education VI). The two new IDA projects, Credit 2295-KE
(Education Sector Adjustment Program) and the Credit 2309-KE (University Investment Project)
approved by the World Bank on November 14, 1991, will introduce policy actions and
investment that will also help sustain the project institutions. The continued training of large
numbers of education personnel by KESI, at risk due to Government budgetary constraints, is
expected to be sustained, however, by funds from a new African Development Credit. Continued
donor support is also expected to play a role in ensuring satisfactory sustainability.
H.    Bank Performance
18.   Major StrenLgths and Weaknesses. Overall Bank performance from identification through
appraisal was satisfactory, and remained so during implementation. Despite appointment of six
successive task managers, regular supervision was conducted, useful professional advice was
given and desk monitoring follow-up was generally prompt. The withdrawal of the Education
Unit from Nairobi to Washington in 1985 had little adverse effect. The use of aide-memoires
in later years geared to supporting efficient PIU implementation, and having a jointly agreed
schedule of priority activities, proved successful. However, some shortcomings were evident:
(a) the project design, including components for six ministries was overly ambitious; (b) lack of
prompt follow-up on the non-recruitment of funded procurement expertise caused critical delays;
(c) more timely and decisive action on procurement of science equipment in 1988 could have
obviated later sensitive complications; and (d) however well-intended the five postponements
made in the Closing Date, the overall benefit from numerous postponements is doubtful.
19.   Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned and actions recommended for consideration
in future projects, especially in Kenya, are as follows:
(a)    To  build up  understanding  and  relationships required  for successful
implementation of these key activities, a seminar/workshop in procurement and
disbursement should be led by Bank specialist(s) at project start-up for personnel
directly concerned, including representatives of the PIU, Tender Boards,
Treasury, Central Bank and agencies/institutions; a follow-up seminar/workshop
should also be conducted within start-up year.
(b)    A  serious problem  of inadequate counterpart funding  exists causing
implementation delays, related to inadequate Government budgeting and
provision in printed estimates to fulfill project obligations; this is compounded
by funding requirements of ongoing Bank Credits and MOE projects; to meet this
problem the Bank should make a more profound evaluation of the Government's
absorptive capacity and prioritization of counterpart funding for new projects and
link this to Credit approvals; the Bank should also avoid financing a follow-on
project when earlier ones are still at a relatively early stage of completion.



- 7 -
(c)    To reduce frequent cases of non-performance by suppliers, pre-qualification for
supply of furniture and eguipment should be undertaken.
(d)    For more effective and efficient procurement, limited international bidding (LIB)
is preferable to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for textbooks, and
International Shopping is most appropriate for journals and periodicals.
(e)    Overall, too many postponements of credit Closing Dates are best avoided.
I.    Borrower Performance
20.   Major Strengths and Weaknesses. Following initial uncertainties and delays, which may
be attributed to the non-recruitment of trained technical specialists, the PIU gradually developed
cohesion and expertise which contributed importantly to final implementation success. Despite
a heavy workload imposed by a backlog of Bank projects, as well as those for other donors, good
working relationships were built up with agencies and institutions responsible for project
implementation. Following initial delays till 1983, regular progress reports were also provided
though reporting or training was inadequate in some cases. However, for lack of expertise,
planning and monitoring on procurement, disbursement and education aspects were faulty. In
this regard, the cessation of the very useful operation of the Project Coordination Committee,
having representatives of the key ministries and agencies concerned, was deleterious. Efficient
implementation was also hampered by staff turnover, unwieldy Government procurement
procedures, and inadequate counterpart funding. There was a laxity in follow-up on non-
performance by some contractors.
21.   Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned and actions recommended are:
(a)   to improve monitoring and overcome execution bottlenecks, emphasis should be
placed on the role of a Project Coordination Committee having representatives
of the key ministries and agencies concerned, which should formally review PIU-
prepared progress reports, at least bi-annually;
(b)   to streamline procurement procedures, high-level discussions between Bank
specialists and the Government authorities concerned should be undertaken to
avoid duplication and delays and follow-up monitored in this regard;
(c)   to improve operation of the Special Account, arrangements should be agreed
between the Government authorities concerned and the Bank, so that regular
statements of account status should be provided to the PIU, and justified
applications for replenishment should be promptly made to the Bank.
J.    Project Relationships
22.   Overall, the good rapport and working relationships which existed between supervision
missions and the Bank's Resident Mission (RMEA), with the PIU, MOE and agencies/institutions
responsible for implementation, were an important factor in success achieved. However, the
expertise available at the Disbursement Unit of the RMEA was not sufficiently availed of by the
PIU. As this Unit is planned to be withdrawn to Washington in mid-1992, closer monitoring may
be required on this aspect in future projects. Lack of sufficiently developed relationships among
the PIU/MOE and the Treasury, Central Bank and CTB on disbursement and procurement aspects



- 8 -
caused delays. Start-up seminar/workshops recommended should provide a better understanding
and "ownership" of new projects and improve efficiency of implementation.
K.    Consulting Services
23.   Role, Performance and Implications of Involvement. The key point is the non-utilization
by the Borrower of a large proportion of the specialist services provided for in the Credit. There
was resistance by the concerned authorities to recruitment of specialists at a high level of fees,
relative to the salaries of Kenyan counterparts. This resistance had implications in particular for
the introduction of Forestry and Range Management and required technical expertise in the PIU.
Undoubtedly, efficiency of project implementation suffered in the PIU because of non-utilisation
of trained specialists. The performance of other consultants used is considered satisfactory.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
24.   Initial provision for a Special Account in the Credit Agreement would have been helpful.
The Staff Appraisal Report and Working Papers provided a useful framework for the Bank and
the Borrower during project implementation. However, these documents, together with the
Credit Agreement were not adequately used by PIU staff for outside reference. Project
implementation might also have been enhanced by PIU provision of relevant extracts from the
Working Papers to the agencies and institutions responsible for individual project components,
and more frequent reference thereto in its communications with them.
25.   Upon withdrawal of the Education Unit in 1985 from Nairobi to Washington, all the files
to that date were also withdrawn. This hindered somewhat the mission's preparation of the
Project Completion Report (PCR). However, the PIU had done helpful preparatory work, as
requested.  Nevertheless, improvement can be made in local filing systems and in the
development of project data bases.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
{PREPARED BY THE BORROWEL)
A.    Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part m
26.   Data in Part IIl was prepared by PIU staff in collaboration with the PCR mission. It
provides an adequate and accurate summary of statistical data covering the relevant aspects of the
project.
B.    Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
27.   Preparation and Appraisal. From the identification of this project, up to the appraisal
stage and negotiation thereof, it should have been noted that this was a very ambitious program
which was not easy to implement in that. (a) it became effective when the Third and Fourth
Education Projects were still being implemented; (b) it covered component projects of various
Ministries whose Permanent Secretaries are accountable for expenditures in their respective
Ministries as accounting officers; (c) the then existing PIU was added further .esponsibilities of



- 9 -
coordinating implementation of a Secondary Teacher Training Project under the African
Development Fund (ADF) without adequate reinforcement of the staff at the Unit.
28.   In view of the above factors, tne project suffered a very serious delay in its early stages,
since implementation attention was directed to the Third and Fourth Projects which were closing
i 1984 and 1985 respectively, after extension of their implementation period.
2S    The establishment of a coordinating committee composed of representatives from
participating ministries and other key departments was a very positive move, particularly because
the project covered more than one ministry. Equally important was the Bank's recommendation
and Government acceptance to retain the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the MOE
which has acted and continues to act as the link between the Bank and the Borrower, as well as
between the bidders the beneficiaries of procured goods and services from the proceeds of the
Credit. The PIU now has become institutionalized, thus becoming a major section of the MOE
charged with the responsibility of handling development projects financed both externally and
internally.
30.   Supervision. The twice-yearly supervision missions by Bank officials have proved very
useful for project implementation. During such missions ideas were shared and implementation
strategies laid down between PIU staff and the mission team. Preparation and submission of half-
yearly reports have proved very useful for gauging implementation progress and identifying
delays.
31.   At one stage, the supervision mission was seen as though it was out to find faults and
shor.comings of the PIU. However, with the change of staff at the Bank, this improved
tremendously and any recommendations and strategies mutually agreed and contained in the aide-
memoires were seriously followed. The various activities and targeted dates of realization laid
down in such aide-memoires and mutually agreed have proved very useful reference points to the
PIU staff. This mode of supervision is highly recommended to be continued for the on-going
projects and others that may be negotiated in future.
32.   One minor shortcoming of missions is the duration of the exercise. It is felt that the week
accorded is not adequate, particularly where more than one on-going project is being
implemented. Another commendable aspect of the supervision team is the final presentation of
the findings to the MOE accounting officer, or his representative. It is at this forum that some
particular handicaps are highlighted and means and ways of overcoming them discussed and
agreed upon. Frequent change of Bank Task Managers does not help efficient implementation.
33.   The PIU is adequately provided with transport bought from the proceeds of the Credits
in order to facilitate the supervision exercise. The running costs of the fleet as well as other
office administrative expenditures are usually adequately provided under the Project
Administration allocation. This is a very positive undertaking, otherwise supervision would not
be possible without such funds.
C.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Major Lessons Learned
34.   Project Management. Right from the start, the Borrower lacked adequate personnel to
manage the project. Even though the PIU existed before the project became effective, there were
shortcomings particularly in that: (a) the quantity and quality of the personnel was lacking to
handle the project of that magnitude; (b) proper accommodation for the team was lacking and has



- 10-
continued to be a major problem unto this day; and (c) the staffing of the PIU was characterized
by such high degree of transfers that the Bank had to intervene. The size and composition of the
staff have been improved in the recent past with engagement and deployment of technical and
professional cadre to man various aspects of the projects. The procured office equipment has
improved the management of the project. However, with better office accommolation planned,
more relevant equipment could be procured to enhance implementation of projects.
35.   Deployment of Consultants. While consultants wiere engaged and effectively deployed
to handle building or civil works, no such arrangements were made for the procurement of goods
or implementation of technical assistance schedules. As stated earlier, the PIU was inadequately
staffed to handle the project at the initial stages. This however, improved in the mid-eighties.
36.   In spite of all these drawbacks; there has been reasonable cooperation by the officers of
the Ministry of Public Works on matters pertaining to civil works. The staff of the PIU have
worked very effectively and in consultation with these authorities. Consequently, much has been
realized at very competitive prices and low overhead expenditures. However, it must be noted
that there have been prolonged delays in the implementation of some programs such as technical
assistance, which otherwise would have been implemented faster with the assistance of
consultants.
37.   The operations of the PIU have also been adversely affected by delays in the adjudication
and awards for some bids, particularly with local adjudication by the MTB and CTB. On several
occasions bidders had to be requested to validate their prices due to such delays. Delays have
also been caused by PIU staff evaluating bids, who frequently have to depend on technical input
from other officers not directly under the supervision of the PIU and who are not engaged as
consultants. Such arrangements have always depended on goodwill and public relations by the
PIU. Another aspect which has affected PIU output is inadequate provision of funds in the local
budgetary arrangements. Frequently several man-hours are unnecessarily spent in trying to
negotiate for funds to meet the commitments of the project regarding definite deadlines.
38.   The engagement of private auditors in accordance with the Credit Agreement has proved
very useful. The accounts have recently been audited in time and the reports emanating from the
exercise submitted to the Bank in accordance with the requirements. Through this arrangement,
the Government now appreciates the need to hire private auditors for these operations.
39.   Major Lessons Learned
In the implementation of this project several issues have emerged which should be
considered seriously by both the Bank and the Borrower. Such lessons should be considered in
future projects:
(a)    That projects should not be too ambitious, covering very many components
scattered across many Government Ministries. In such case, it is recommended
that each Ministry be responsible for its own program.
(b)    That project periods be seriously considered, particularly at negotiations, in order
to avoid unnecessary extension requests which have their own drawbacks.



- 11 -
(c)    On the local scene, it ,i necessary to ensure the availability of counterpart funds
in order to avoid frequent cash flow problems.
(d)    That implementation of too many projects at the same time may not be in the best
interest of anyone notwithstanding budgetary provisions.
(e)    That bid expenditure limits for LCB and ICB be increased so as to benefit local
entrepreneurs.
40.   Realization of Objectives. In order to appreciate what has been realized from the
proceeds of the Credit vis-a-vis the established objectives, it will be necessary to look at the
original Credit and the various amendments that have been made. Also, the long-term impact
of the Credit on education cannot be easily evaluated at this stage of the report.
41.   All in all, the following can be said of the Credit at this juncture:
(a)    The establishment of Coast Agricultute Institute, now renamed Kilifi Institute of
Agriculture, has enabled the Government to increase its output of trained front
line staff in the agricultural sector. The Institute has enrollment of 400 students
for a two year course. There are less 3ob opportunities in the public and private
sectors.
(b)    Following the establishment of Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI), over
10,000 educational personnel - headteachers and their deputies, education officers
and bursars - have been trained in areas of education management. It may be
necessary now to evaluate the impact and/or effect the said training has had on
the overall management of education.
(c)    With the expansion of the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabete Campus through
additional facilities and establishment of the Department of Range Management,
the Faculty has been able to graduate a large number of students with varied
exposure in areas of agriculture. However, as observed earlier, absorption of the
graduates either in the public or private sector for gainful employment continues
to be a problem.
(d)    The secondary education curriculum, including the technical aspect of the same
has been realized. And with the strengthening of the Education Media Services
(EMS), the primary and secondary as well as teacher education programs, are
fairly aired by Kenya Broadcasting Corporation. Evaluation of the curriculum
is currently being done as well as the effect of EMS on curriculum
implementation.
(e)    Rehabilitation work at the old colleges has tremendously eased the student
accommodation congestion that has existed for a long time; sewage disposal in
some of the colleges like Thogoto and Mosoriot, is fairly efficient and healthy.
The stocking of the libraries with new books and periodicals has improved
tremendously in all the colleges.



- 12 -
(0    Provision of science equipment to selected secondary schools which were
disadvantaged in the implementation of the new science curriculum is one project
which has received very high recognition, not only by the recipient schools but
also by the parents, politicians and local communities as well as the print media.
The responses coming from those schools are very encouraging. However, it
will be important to sample some of them in order to evaluate the impact the
equipment is having in the teaching of science at secondary level.
(g)    The enrollment at Mombasa and Kisumu Industrial Training Centers has
increased with the expansion of the facilities at the two Institutes. The graduates
from these C,nters are easily absorbed in the private sector where there is high
demand of personnel with technicat skills. It should also be noted that the
trainees are sponsored by their employers for appropriate and relevant skill
training at those Centers.
(h)    On the Technical Assistance program, particularly the fellowship component,
scveral teaching areas at the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabete are manned by the
fellowship recipients who trained for further studies and then came back to be
deployed at the Faculty. The entire staff of Department of Range Management
is a case in point. Elsewhere, the program has also benefitted staff of Kenya
Institute of Education (KIE), Ministry of Education, Planning Unit, and those of
the Unit.
(i)    The installation of the main frame computer at Nairobi University to serve all its
campuses will have proved very useful, particularly during the selection/intake
process for all the public universities in the country.
.(j)    The Presidential Working Party on Education and Manpower Training for the
Next Decade and Beyond, financed from the proceeds of the Fifth Credit, made
some far reaching recommendations particularly on financing of education in
Kenya, some of which are being effectively implemented, such as cost-sharing
and restructuring of the student loan schemes.
42.   Relationships. The rapport developed and established during this project among all the
concerned parties, including the Bank officials and beneficiary clients, is a very cordia and
healthy one.  A lot of relevant experiences have been shared and gained during the
implementation of the project.
43.   Some delays have been caused by laxity and lack of appreciation by participating
departments, but these have been overcome with time and approach taken by the PIU. In
comparison to previous projects, the Fifth Credit has been implemented and monitored more
efficiently and effectively, although it has taken much longer to complete due to more components
added to the original project. This is also a reflection of goodwill that exists in the Bank towards
Kenya. The many extensions and amendments to the Credit reflect good relationship that exist
between the Bank and the Borrower and among the staff of the two parties.
44.   With a lot of concerted effort, the PIU has made its operations known by the adjudicating
bodies and participating ministries or departments. The urgency to award the bids and
communicate the outcome as well as replies to issues raised, is now much more appreciated than



- 13 -
in the past. This is due to the fact that PIU operations are based on set deadlines. The PITJ is
now established as an entity within MOE and its operations well known in the local scene, not
only by the beneficiaries but elso by the Treasury. It is also now well known by the African
Development Bank and to a large extent by the international business community.



- i4-
PART III. STATISTICAI INFORMATION
A.    Relaed Bank Credits
Table 1: Ida Credits Relevant To The Project
Credit No.    Year of   Purpose of
Title         Approval Project                         &a            Comments
Cr. 93-KE     1966      General secondary and          Completed     Objectives met;
Education I             technical schools; primary     2/1974,       OED Sec M7.4-79
teacher training               4 yr. late
Cr. 185-KE    1970      Farmer and agric. staff        Completed     Objectives met
Education II           training, secondary and tech.   1/1978        OED Sec
educ., primary te%cher training    2 yr. late  M 79454
Cr. 1184-KE   1975     Expansion/improvement           Completed     Objectives met
Education m             primary teacher training,      12/1983
school equipment, curric       1.5 yr. late
and educ. media development
Cr. 797-KE    1978      Agric. training, primary       Completed    Objectives met
Education IV            educ., post-primary crafts,    12/1984
curric. and exams.             2 yr. late
Development and project
management training
Cr. 1107-KE   1981      Quality improvement through    Completed    Objectives met
Education V             educ. management, curriculum   12/1991
development texts;             5.5 yr. late
specialized for agric. and
industry
Cr. 1673-KE   1987      Equity/quality improvement     Closing Date  Implementation
Education VI            for primary and secondary      6/1992        good; CD
education and institution                    delay likely
development all levels
Cr. 2295-KE   1991      Education sector adjustment    Closing Date  Planned
EDSAC                   all educational levels         06/1994       effective 09/1991
Cr. 2309-ICE   1991     Rationalization of higher      Closing Date  Planned
education and improving       06/1996        effective 06/1992
quality of teaching/research



- 15 -
B.    Project Timetable
Table 2: Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Item                 Planned Date     Revised Date     Actual Date
Identification Mission  04/79              -             04/79
Preparation Mission    09/10/79            -            09-10/79
Appraisal Mission       05/80              -             05/80
Credit Negotiations     01/81              -             01/81
Board Approval          03/81              -             03/81
Credit Signature        05/81              -            05-07-81
Credit Effectiveness    07/81           08-05-81        08-05-81
Project Completion     12-31-85         09-30-91        09-30-91
Closing                06-30-86     12/89, 12/30, 9/81    09-30-91
45.   The project took about ten (instead of five) years to complete and there were five Credit
amendments. As a result of developments of Harambee Institutes of Technology to train middle
technicians, includiag water technicians, it was decided to cancel the establishment of the Water
Development Institute and to re-allocate funds to other new sub-projects. The new sub-projects
added because of cancellation and "savings" due to dollar/KSH exchange required more time to
complete; hence the extensions of the completions and closing dates.



APPRAISAL
ESTIMATE      0.40        2.3        16.4       30.4       35.7      40.05
ACTUAL                                         1.82       2.34       8.97      14.69        15.99      25.61      32.37      37.30      38.78
CllEDIT CLOSE
40                                                                                             --.*.---*--       -              --
20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1980       1981        1982       1983       1984       1085           198G   1'87       t9ff8       -89-. 1-' 1991                   1992
YEARS                                                                     "



- 17 -
D.    Pro3ect Implementation
Table 4: Planned and Actual Completion Dates of
Components-Furniture & Equipment
Project Component        Planned      Actual          Months of
Completion   Completion     Delays
1. Kenya Educ. Staff Inst.        3/85           6/90             63
2. Faculty of Agriculture         3/85           6/91             75
3. Coast Agric. Inst.             2/86           6/88             26
4. Water Resources Inst.              CANCELLED
5. Mombasa I.T. C.                10/85          3/90             53
6. Kisumu I.T.C.                  10/85          3/90             53
7. Pre-Investment Study           6/83           6/85             24
Amendment
8. K.N.E.C.                       6/88           8/88              2
9. Educ. Media Service            7/87           9/87              2
10. Support to P.C.                7/87          9/87              2
11. DPM Manpower Survey            7/88          6/89              12
12. Presidential Working Party     7!88          7/88              0
13. P.I.U.
Amendment
14. Rehabilitation of 15 P.T.T.Cs  8/91          11/91             3
15. Support to 2 AZPs              2/89          6/90              14
16. Science Equipment              6/89          11/91             21
Amendment
17. Replacement Computer for       11i90         9/91              10
Univ. of Nairobi
Amendment
18. Library Bks. for Univ. of      8/91          7/91              -1
Nairobi
46.   Six components were originally earmarked for implementation. Various amendments
introduced 11 other components and deleted one original component. The furniture and
equipment supplied is of appropriate quantity and quality in all institutions under the project with
minor exceptions it KESI, the 15 Teachers Colleges, Secondary Schools and Coast Agricultural
Institute. Each of these still requires some additional instructional equipment.



- 18 -
E.    Project Costs and Financing
Table 5: Project Cost (US$ Million)
Category                 Estimated Costs          Actual Costs
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs    Costs  Costs   Costs    Costs
Civil Works        14.04      6.01   20.05   14.51     5.40  19.91
Furniture,
Equipment &         1.35      3.27    4.62    9.37    15.61  24.98
Vehicles
Technical assistance
& Fellowships       1.42      5.68    7.10    1.18     2.26   3.44
Consultants
Services            1.75      2.62    4.37    1.04     1.09   2.13
Study               0.03      0.12   0.15    0.23      0.33   0.56
Project Costs       1.23      0.57    1.8    1.22      0.41    1.63
Training            0.93      0.40    1.33    1.59     0.58   2.17
Refunding of
Project Preparation    0.37   0.25    0.62   0.02      0.03   0.05
Advance
Unallocated          -        -      14.96    -        -      0.13
Total        21.12     18.92  55.00   29.16     25.71  55.0
U$-  - S-   - _
US$ 1 = SDR 0.784064 (January 18, 1991)



- 19 -
Table 6: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Source of Funds           Planned        Revis  (Amend)       Final  uatl)
(Apr. Report)
IDA                       40.05                40.0                38.78 (a)
GOK                       14.95                15.0                16.22 (b)
Total Project Cost        55.0                 55.0                55.0
(a)  Decrease from original credit allowance due to final closing of credit at December 31,
1991, when some minor works still required to be completed and some suppliers needed
final payment.
(b)  Difference to be taken up by GOK after December 31, 1991 or request sume to be
funded from the 6th Credit, Cr. 1673-KE.



- 20 -
Table 7: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(TJS$/SDR)
Category                       Amount of the Credit
Allocated (USS)     Actual Expenditure      Actual Expenditure
(USS)                   (SDR)
(1)     Civil works               10,203,248.00        11,933,712.00           9,356,794.13
(2)     Furniture, equipment
and vehicles             22,957,308.00        20,072,351.00           1S,738,008.44
(3)     Technical assistance and
fellowships               2,423,271.00         2,401,367.00            1,882,825.46
(4)     Consultants' services      1,530,487.00         1,546,816.00           1,212,802.78
(S)     Studies under part H of
the project                 352,012.00           3S1,926.34             27S,932.77
(6)     Project unit                969,309.00            9S6,156.24             749,687.68
(7)     Training under parts A
(b) and 1 of the
project                   1,402,947.00          1,344,416.30           1,054,108.45
(8)     Refunding of the Project
of Preparation Advance       39,017.00            38,975.50              30,591.55
Sub-total       39.877.59.00          38.64S.720.38          30.300.751.26
Other Costs (Exchange
Adjustment)                 170,149.00           132,872.38              97,279.04La
Amount Cancelled                -               1,363,448.19           1,001,969.70
TOTAL           40,047.748.00         40.142.040.9S          31.400.000.00
&  The Special Aeamnt was fully documented in the currency of the Special Account. The amount of SDR 97,279.04,
indicated under Exchange Adjustment (Fund-A category) represents the exchange rate fluctuation between the SDR and
the currency of the Special Account from the time of advance to the Special Account to the time of documentation of the
Account.



-21 -
F.    Project Results
Table 8: Project Benefits
Indicators                                      Estimated At
Appraisal  Closing date   Annual Output
Full Development
1. Enrollments (numbers trained)
Kenya Education Staff Institute:
Administration Trained (Total)    10,000     10,000            10,008
Faculty of Agriculture (Kabete)
University of Nairobi Extension     690          855               855
Coast Agricultural Institute
(Kilifi)                      400          400               400
Industrial Training Centers.
i) Kisumu Extension               225          334               334
ii) Mombasa Extension              156          288               288
2. Fellowships *                                           Actual Utilization
a) Kenya Education Staff           2.0 my       2.0 my            2.0 my
Institute
b) Faculty of Agriculture         28.0 my      59.0 my           59.0 my
(Kabete, University of Nairobi)
c) Coast Agriculture Institute    20.0 my      20.0 my            6.0 my
(Kilifi)                    0 my           --
d) Project Administration
3. Specialist *
a) Kenya Education Staff           1.0 my       1.0 my             0.0
Institute
b) Faculty of Agriculture         18.0 my      18.0 my            4.0 my
(Kabete, University of Nairobi)
c) Coast Agriculture Institute    28.0 my      28.0 my            0.0 my
(Kilifi)                   4.5 my       4.5 my            3.0 my
d) Project Administration
* calculated in man years (my)
49.   Planned institutions, except the Water Training Institute, are already operational and
enrollment and output goals met. The project utilized a limited number of specialists
provided by the project. The Borrower considered the personal emoluments and other
benefits for specialists were too costly as compared to those of local staff. The Facuity of
Agriculture, Kabete used specialists services funds for fellowships training of local staff.
Similarly, the PIU increased fellowship training and decreased use of specialists.



- 22 -
Table 2: Project Studies
Study         Purpose as Defined        Status            Impact
at Appraisal
a) Pre-investment   To identify manpower  Completed 1985    Business education
study of business  needs for qualified                   incorporated in
education and    personnel in business                   the new secondary
training         fields, facilities and                  curriculum and
programs for business                  technical and
education and                           vocational
training.                               educition under
the new structure.
b) National        To define policy for    Completed        The report
Manpower         education and                           recommendations
Surveys          vocat-onal training,                    form a major
determine training                      focus of activities
needs and develop a                     of the new
manpower data bank.                     Ministry of
Manpower
Development.
c) Presidential    To review the         Completed          Report
Working Party    philosophy, policies                    recommendations
of Education and  and objectives of                      incorporated in
Manpower         education and training                  Government of
Training         geared to sustained                     Kenya Sessinal
growth, quality                         Paper No. 6 of
improvement and                         1988 on Education
relevance within                        and Manpower
realistic financial                     Training; policies
constraints.                            of Sessinal Paper
form basis of
EDSAC and UIP.



- 23 -
0. Status of Credit Covenanta
Table 10: Compliance with Credit Covenants
Section/Covenant                                             Status of Compliance
3.01    Efficient operation of the PiU                        Satisfactoqy, ecepting non-operation
of Coordination Committee since 1988
3.02     Use of Technical Assistance                          Low proportion use of trained
and Steering Committee for                           Specialists
Study
3.03     Furnishing satisfactory program for                  Not satisfactory
provision of agreed Specialist & Fs_ip
training
3.04     Insurance imported goods and use of                  Satisfactory
goods/services financed exdusively for
the project
3.05     Furnishing promptly plans, specs,                    Delayed compliance
reports, documents etc. for project
3.06    Action to acquire required land for                   Satisfactory
construction and operation of project
facilities
4.01     Maintenance of adequate accounting                   Satisfactory
records
4.02     Furnishing Audit Report for each                     FoDlowing initial delaya, compliance
fiscal year within 6 months of end                  in recent times
that fisc year
4.03    Retention of records one year folowing
Closing Date
4.04    Efficient operation of project institutes             Satisfactory
4.05    Adequate maintenance of project                       Satisfactory
institutions, induding furniture/equipment
4.06     Furnishing annual reports on training                Not fuly satisfactory
programs progress
4.07    Training of instructors required for the              Satisfactory
ITC atensions



- 24 -
H.      Use of Resources
Table 11: Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff/Weeks
Orig.     Rev.       Actual     Actual as
Plan       Plan                    %
of Rev
FY77 - Pre-Appraisal              -          -         3
FY78 - Pre-Appraisal              -          -         .1
FY79 - Pre-Appraisal              -          -         12.9
FY80 - Pre-Appraisal              -          -        7-2
Appraisal                             -         34.3
FY81 - Appraisal                  -          -        23.0
Negotiation                 -                   15.9
Supervision                 -                    1.1
FY82 - Supervision                -          -         14.6
FY83 - Supervision                -          -         14.8
FY84 - Supervision                -          -         15.7         -
FY85 - Supervision                -          -         18.4         -
FY86 - Supervision                -                   44.3          -
FY87 - Supervision                -                   24.3          -
FY88 - Supervision                -                   22.5          -
FY89 - Superasion                 -          *         13.9         -
FY90 - Supervision                -          -         12.9         -
FY91 - Supervision               10.0      10.0        7.7        76.7
FY92 - Supervision                -          -         4.7          -
Complet. Report            7.0       7.0         1.3        18.'



- 25 -
Table 12: Mission Data by Stages of Project
Mission            Month/Year              No. of Persons /a      Staff Time Field
Identification          04n79
Preparation           09-10179
Appraisal Total           05/80
Supervision           10-11R86              3 (A. GE, M)             I month
Supervision             11/86                  1 (TE)                 3 days
Supervision             1/87                   1 (GE)                 5 days
Supervision            5-6/87               3 (TE, E, -0)            13 days
Supervision             9/87                   1 (GE)                 5 days
Supervision             10/87                  1 (TE)                 13 days
Supervision             4/88                   1 (TE)                 12 days
Supervision             2/89                   1 (GE)                 8 days
Supervision             7/89                   1 (A)                  10 days
Supervision             11/89                  1 (GE)                 5 days
Supervision             2/90                   1 (GE)                 14 days
Supervision             7/90                   1 (GE)                 10 days
Supervision             10/90                  1 (GE)                 3 days
Supervision
Supervision             6/91                   1 (GE)                 5 days
PCR                  1V91               3 (GE, A, GE)              25 days
da       A - Architect;   = Economist; GE = General Educator, TB = Technical Educator.



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Participants in Completion Mission
A. Participants
World Bank
Mr. J. McCabe                               -            Principal Education Planner
Mr. P. Walker                               -            Architect
Mr. J. Kamunge                              -            Education Specialist (RMEA)
MOE/PIU,
Mr. J.B. Ndungu                             -            Deputy Secretary
Mr. E.C. Cherono                            -            Director, PIU
Mr. F.K. Gachui                             -            Deputy Director, PIU
Mr. S.A. Changilwa                          -            Project Architect
Mr. Z.M.'Ringeera                           -            Procurement Engineer
Mr. P.N. Kamau                              -            Education Officer
Mr. P.A. Odongo                             -            Project Accountant
B. Officials Consulted on Proiect Components
KESI
Mr. D.K. Ndirangu                           -            Acting Director
Faculty of Agriculture. Kabete
Dr. Njoka                                   -            Department of Range
Management
Professor Rodrigues                         -            Director, Institute of Computer
Science
Mr. M. Gitonga                              -            Clerk of Works
Mrs. Kimani                                 -            Chief Librarian
Coast Agriculture Institute
Mr. D.S. Kitivo                             -            Principal
Industrial Training Certer.Mombasa
Mr. G.N. Simba                                           Principal



- 28 -
KIE                                                                       Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Mr. J.O. Menya                              -            Deputy Director
Mr. G.M. Muita                              -            Education Media Service
Division
Mrs. E.A. Wanaswa                           -            Secondary Division
Mr. B.G. Nyagah                             -            Tech and Business Educ.
Division
Mr. P. Kuria                                -            Primary Education Division
Langata Secondary School
Ms. G. Macharia                              -            Headmistress
Mrs. D. Muli                                 -            Deputy Headmistress
Mrs. C. Waweru                               -            Principal, Thogoto
Mr. J.K. Mwachihi                            -            Principal, Shanzu
World Bank
Ms. Thu-ha Nguyen                            -            Disbursement Officer



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Record of Progress Reports (Half Yearly)
Submitted to The World Bank
By P.I.U - Ministry of Education
No.                    Date Submitted        Progress Report for
Period Ending
1. Education           May 1984             April 1984
2.  n                  November 1984        October 1984
3.  "                  May 1985             April 1985
4.                     November 1986        October 1985
5.  n                  May 1986             April 1986
6.  "                  November 1986        October 1986
7.  "                  May 1987             April 1987
8. Education V & VI   November 1987         October 1987
9.  n                  April 1988           April 1988
10.                    January 1989          October 1988
11.  "                 July 1989            April 1989
12.  "                 November 1989         October 1989
13.  "                 August 1990           April 1990
14.  "                 November 1990         October 1990
15.  "                 May 1991              April 1991
16.  H                 ,                     November 1991



- 30 -
Annex 
Page 1 of 1
Civil Works Procurement Schedule
lnstitution/Building   Tender Date          Contract signe     Civil Works initiated
Planned    Acu       Planned     Actal   Planed        A=hIR1
KESI Phase I        10/81      11/82       4/83     6/83         1/83       3/83
KESI Phase II       9/86        1/87      6/87     10/87         5/87       8/87
Faculty of          10/81      12/81       6/82     4/84         2/82       5/82
Agriculture
Coast Agric.        10/81      12/84      1/83      4/85        4/82       1/88
Institute
Mombasa I.T.C.      10/81      12/84       1/83     4/85        4/82       1/85
Kisumu I.T.C.       10/81       7/82       1/83     4/85         4/82       1/85
Kabete Foods         7/87       6/88      10/88     12/88        9/87       9/88
Kibwezi F.S.        7/88        9/85       3/86     4/86        12/85       1/86
Kibwezi W.S.         1/89       6/89       1/90     8/90        10/89      6/90
15 PTTCs            8/88       12/88      6/89      7/89         3/89      5/89
Rehabilitation
Kakuma AZPS         9/90       10/90      12/91     1/91         1/91      2/92



