Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3167-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
February 12, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Units
Kenya Shilling (KSh.)
Kenya Pound (K h)
K E 1 = KSh. 20
Currency Equivalents
US$1            =   KSh. 7.574
KSh. 1          =   US$0.132
K E 1           =   US$2.640
US$1            =   SDR 0.784064
Measures
1 meter (m)      2              3.28 feet
2 square meter (m )             10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                0.6214 mile
1 hectare (ha)                  2.472 acres
Republic of Kenya
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS ....      ........   1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting ....................         I
Recent Developments and Prospects .......     .............. ..    1
Manpower Needs.                                                    1
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT.                                                       4
Overview.                                                          4
Education in the Fourth Development Plan.                          4
Other Programs.                                                    7
Assessment of Government Plans and Policies.                       7
Role of the Bank in Kenyan Education Development.                  9
Bank Group Strategy in the Education Sector .10
III. THE PROJECT .11
Objectives .11
Project Components .11
Kenya Education Staff Institute .11
Faculty of Agriculture .12
Coast Agricultural Institute .13
Kenya Water Resources Training Institute .15
Industrial Training Centers .17
-,                   Pre-Investment Study on Business Education .19
Summary of Technical Assistance .19
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Kenya in
May 1980 and included Ms. J. Vial (Economist/Mission Leader) and Messrs. M.
Cecere (Agricultural Educator), L. Swahn (Technical Educator) and R. Welter
(Architect) of the Bank Group, and Mr. N. Fisher (General Educator, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN ..........................            20
Project Cost ..........................................               20
Customs Duties and Taxes ...............................           22
Contingency Allowances .................................           22
Foreign Exchange Component .............................           23
Financial Plan ...........   ..........................        .     23
Project Preparation Facility .............................            24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT   .....    24
Implementation .................... ..............                   24
Administration ........        .................................   24
Reporting and Evaluation ...............................           25
Professional Services ..................................           25
Site Selection ..............................                      25
Procurement ..........                                                25
Disbursement .........................................               26
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................                       26
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....           ...............  27
ANNEXES
Annex I - Comparative Education Indicators
Annex II - Description of the Education System
Annex III - Tables
3.1  Central Government Expenditure in Education
3.2  Summary of Estimated Project Cost
3.3  Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
3.4  Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
3.5  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
s
Annex IV - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP  IBRD No. 15170



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
BASIC DATA
Population (1979 Census)                                          15.3 million
Population growth rate                                            3.9% p.a.
GNP per capita (1979)                                             US$380
Education Enrollments 1979 (est.) 1/
Primary education (Standards 1-7)
-    enrollment                                              3,698 thousand
-    as percent of age group 6-12 years                      118.9%
-    percent of enrollment which is female                  47%
Secondary education (Forms I-IV) 2/
-    enrollment                                              378 thousand
-    as percent of age group 13-16                           27%
-    percent of enrollment which is female                   41%
University of Nairobi (including Kenyatta College)
-    enrollment (79/80 academic year)                        8,430
-    percent which is female                                 26%
Education Expenditures
Central Government expenditures in education as
percentage of total expenditures of the Central
Government (prel. estimate FY 1979/80)
Recurrent                                              23.4%
Development                                            6.5%
,              Total                                                   18.0%
as a percentage of GDP                                 5.9%
1/   For primary and secondary education the academic year corresponds
to the calendar year.
2/   Includes unaided schools.






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
GLOSSARY
AHITI       -   Animal Health and Industry Training Institute
BS          -   Bachelor of Science
CPE         -   Certificate of Primary Education
DANIDA      -   Danish International Development Agency
DIT         -   Directorate of Industrial Training
FDP         -   Fourth Development Plan, 1979-1983
FTCs        -   Farmer Training Centers
ITCs        -   Industrial Training Centers
JKF         -   Jomo Kenyatta Foundation
KESI        -   Kenya Education Staff Institute
KIA         -  Kenya Institute of Administration
KIE         -  Kenya Institute of Education
KIM         -   Kenya Institute of Management
KITC        -   Kisumu Industrial Training Center
KJSC        -   Kenya Junior Secondary Certificate
KWRTI       -   Kenya Water Resources Training Institute
MEPD        -   Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MITC        -   Mombasa Industrial Training Center
MOBE        -   Ministry of Basic Education
MOHE        -   Ministry of Higher Education
MOW         -   Ministry of Works
MS          -  Master of Science
MWD         -   Ministry of Water Development
NCEOP       -   National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies
PCR         -   Project Completion Report
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
Si          -   Grading Code for Secondary Teachers
SEPU        -   Science Equipment Production Unit
SIDA        -   Swedish International Development Authority
TDP         -   Third Development Plan, 1974-1978
TSC         -   Teachers' Service Commission
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
AIDED SCHOOLS   -  Primary and/or secondary schools receiving financial
assistance (mainly teacher salaries) from Government.
UNAIDED SCHOOLS -  Self-help (Harambee) and private primary and/or
secondary schools with limited or no Government
assistance.
"HARAMBEE"      -  Self-help






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Geographic and Socio-Economic Setting
2
1.01      Kenya, with an area of about 583,000 km , is a country of great
topographical, climatic and soil contrasts. Its population of 15.3 million
in 1979 1/ is mainly rural (87%) and is growing at an estimated rate of 3.9%
p.a. The population is unevenly distributed; on the one extreme, 45% are
settled in the Nyanza, Western and Central provinces, which include only 6%
of the land mass and on the other extreme, only 2.4% are settled in the
Northeastern Province which includes 22% of the country's land mass.
1.02      Despite substantial economic progress, Kenya remains a poor country,
still heavily rural and depending on agriculture. In 1979, Kenya's GNP per
capita attained US$380, but it is estimated that about one-fourth of the
population still have incomes which place them below the absolute poverty
line. Within the agricultural sector a broad distinction can be made between
the large farms, including Government farms, and the roughly 1.5 million
smallholdings (over one-half subsistence farms) occupying about 3.5 million
hectares (56% of the agricultural land), most of it farmed by their owners.
Because of the large number of people and the high proportion of the area
involved in small farms, it is crucial for the future socio-economic develop-
ment of Kenya that the efficiency of this sub-sector be significantly
increased. Training of additional skilled manpower for the sub-sector is
urgently required.
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.03      Kenya's growth performance during the Third Development Plan (TDP)
1974-78 was dominated by fluctuations in the country's international terms of
trade. The net effect of these fluctuations was a substantially lower growth
rate than originally anticipated--4.6% p.a., as compared with the 7.4% Plan
target. During 1979, the first year of the Fourth Development Plan (FDP)
1979-1983, GDP is estimated to have grown at only about 3%, due mainly to a
decline in both agricultural production and prices. This resulted in stagnant
consumer demand which in addition to the virtual loss of the Ugandan market
adversely affected the performance of the manufacturing sector. While
construction continued to boom throughout the year, its small contribution to
GDP could not compensate for the shortfall in agriculture and the slowdown in
manufacturing expansion.
1/   Population count in the August 1979 Census.



- 2 -
1.04      The sluggish production performance in 1979 resulted in a
marked deterioration of the 1979/80 budgetary situation as compared with
that of 1978/79. Notwithstanding delaying the implementation of a number
of projects, the overall budget deficit is estimated to have risen by about
40% (from Kh 114 million to about Kb 160 million). These developments and
the unfavorable prospects for the country's international terms of trade
prompted the authorities to review the targets set in the FDP and to embark
on a program of fiscal austerity.
1.05      According to Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1980 on economic prospects
and policies, prepared by the Government, the projected growth rate of
the economy for the FDP period has been reduced from its original target of
6.3% p.a. to 5.4% p.a. Fiscal revenues and expenditures have also been
reestimated at a level 10-12% below the FDP target. Moreover, the Paper
indicates that financial constraints in the near future may become even more
severe than implied in the new estimates above. If confirmed, this would
require a further revision of the FDP targets and intensification of the
austerity measures.
Manpower Needs
1.06      Comprehensive data on employment are available only for the modern
*wage sector of the economy, i.e. industrial and commercial enterprises in
urban areas, large scale farms, other large- and medium-scale enterprises
in rural areas, and the public sector, accounting for about 15% of the labor
force.   Since the performance of the wage sector is not independent from
that of the traditional sector, employment developments in the former shed
some light on overall employment in the economy.
1.07      As shown below, during the TDP period the lower than anticipated
growth of GDP was also accompanied by a lower than projected employment
expansion in the modern sector--3.7% p.a. as compared with a projected 4.5%
p.a.



Trends in Wage Employment
During the Third Development Plan 1/
Number  (000)      Annual Growth
1973    1978          1973-78 (X)
Total                                      761.4   911.5           3.7
Private Sector                            462.4   521.6            2.4
Agriculture and Forestry                   220.0   189.0         -3.1
Mining and Quarrying                         2.4     1.9          -4.6
Manufacturing                               73.3   105.3           7.5
Construction                               23.7    28.6           3.8
Trade, Restaurants and Hotels               44.7    59.6           5.9
Transport and Communications                16.6    20.6           4.4
Finance and Business Services               17.1    25.9           8.7
Other Services                              64.1    90.6           7.2
Public Sector                             298.9   390.0           5.5
Source:  Economic Surveys, 1977 and 1979.
1.08      During 1979 wage employment is estimated to have risen by 6.5%,
largely due to the 10% compulsory increase in employment both in the public
and private sectors, decreed by the President early in the year. Similar
increases cannot be expected in the future and the FDP target of 50,000 new
wage jobs per year will have to be substantially reduced. New estimates of
manpower requirements by sector and skill level should become available when
the Government completes a manpower survey, referred to in the FDP. 2/
1.09      The FDP includes projections of manpower requirements of the public
sector, the largest employer of wage labor. These projections, based on
Government and non-government special studies, reflect in many cases desirable
levels of skilled manpower, but do not take into account budgetary constraints
for establishing new posts. Thus, they tend to overstate effective shortages.
1.10       Subsequent to the preparation of the FDP, new studies on effective
manpower demand requirements for specific subsectors have been completed.
Among them, the most comprehensive relates to needs of professional and sub-
professional agricultural manpower up to 1988, prepared under the sponsorship
of USAID (para. 3.07). Other studies identify specific public sector project
or program related manpower needs, e.g. training needs for the implementation
1/   The data exclude self-employed and unpaid family workers in modern sector
establishments who numbered about 54,000 in 1973, and 60,000 in 1978.
2/   Fourth Development Plan, Part I, Page 483.



- 4 -
of water development projects (para. 3.11 ). While manpower requirements
studies for the private sector are critically lacking, indications of labor
shortages for certain specific skills have been detected through entre-
preneurs' requests for the training of their work force and/or complaints
about failure to fulfill needs from the available labor supply.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND MAJOR ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Overview
2.01      At independence in 1963, Kenya inherited a system of education
characterized by the unequal distribution of resources and opportunities
resulting from influences originating in the pre-independence period. These
were: (a) the unequal allocation of education resources among the ethnic
groups, particularly for secondary education; (b) the widely varying impact
of Christian missions; and (c) the African efforts to countermand colonial
influences through the generation of local funds to establish "independent"
schools, which became the forerunners of the post-independence "harambee"
(self-help) school movement.
2.02      While Kenya since independence has devoted a large share of govern-
ment expenditures to expanding the education system, particularly at the
secondary and tertiary levels in the 1960's and latterly at the primary
level, few attempts have been made to compensate for disparities created by
private or community investment in expanding schools. In keeping with overall
economic philosophy, national economic growth has been viewed as the chief
mean for equalizing educational opportunities. Consequently, inequities have
remained and continue to reflect the regional characteristics already apparent
during the pre-independence period.  With recent efforts to provide free and
universal primary education, these regional differences are focussed in-
creasingly on the secondary and post-secondary levels.
2.03      The education system is described in detail in Annex II.  Briefly,
the general education system consists of seven years primary and six years of
secondary education with major exit points based on national examinations
after the seventh year of primary and the fourth and sixth years of secondary
education. The Ministry of Basic Education (MOBE) is responsible for the
administration of pre-primary and primary education and primary teacher
training. The Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) has responsibility for
secondary and higher education and the Harambee Institutes of Technology.
In addition, a wide range of both non-formal education and professional
training programs are administered by numerous other Government ministries and
agencies as well as those operated by private firms and voluntary agencies.
Education in the Fourth Development Plan
2.04      The National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP)
was established in 1975 with the mandate to prepare a report which would have
"far-reaching effects on the objectives, structure and content of the education



- 5 -
system" while providing a framework for the implementation of any recommended
changes. The work of the NCEOP was assisted under the Third Education Project
(Loan 1184-KE), and its final report was issued in January 1977. The report
placed its main emphasis on general education and within it, on primary
education, but it lacked an adequate analysis of the recommendations con-
cerning technical education and training. The report, although discussed
in the Cabinet and made available to the general public, was never formally
adopted by the Government. Nevertheless, the FDP has incorporated many
of the recommendations included in the NCEOP document.
2.05      Following a period of rapid educational expansion, the emphasis
of the FDP is on improved quality, efficiency and relevance in education
combined with fiscal restraint. The main FDP proposals for education and
training are summarized below.
2.06      Primary Education.  Free and universal education for seven years
is adopted as a FDP target. In addition, a scheme for the distribution
of milk to all primary school children is included in the FDP. Other pro-
posed measures relate to the improvements in the quality and relevance of
primary education through curriculum reform; strengthening the teaching of
mathematics, science and pre-vocational subjects; strengthening and expansion
of the inspectorate; the phasing out of untrained teachers; and the upgrading
of teachers through in-service training programs.
2.07      Secondary Education.  Under the FDP, only a modest expansion of
secondary education is proposed (2% increase p.a. in Form I in aided schools),
although assistance to "harambee" secondary schools will continue. At the
senior level, emphasis is placed on the science streams, including agricul-
ture, and on the training of additional teachers. Also, the number of
secondary technical schools will be increased. In order to minimize incre-
mental costs, the FDP suggests an upward revision of school fees (para.
2.16).
2.08      University Education.  The University is expected to grow at 5%
per year during the FDP. A working committee is in the process of being
established to prepare a proposal for the creation of a second university to
cater for possible new fields of study.
2.09      Non-formal Education.  The Government's main responsibility for
out of school youth and adult education is vested in the Ministry of Culture
and Social Services. During the FDP period, particular emphasis will be
placed on training community leaders, increasing support to women's groups,
expanding the Family Life Training Centers (from 8 to 23) and the Craft
Centers (from 220 to 370). In addition, the Government has launched a mass
adult literacy program with an enrollment target of one million by 1983.
Increased use of the radio and rural press in support of the program is
proposed. Finally, for farmer training, the proposals include the establish-
ment of three new Farmer Training Centers and the reorientation of extension
and information services towards group programs for small farmers.



- 6 -
2.10      Middle- and Upper-level Manpower Training.  The FDP proposes the
establishment of a Coordinating Unit in the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development (MEPD), to coordinate training activities at a national level --
there are more than 200 training institutions operated by 20 government
agencies in addition to those operated by the private sector. The FDP also
proposes setting up a Policy Steering Committee to establish terms of reference
for the Unit and to act as a continuing policy level advisory body.
2.11      Plans for specific training subsectors and institutions include
the following:
(a)  Technical Training:  The establishment of a third Polytechnic
is proposed. Also proposed is the strengthening of the
operations of the Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT)
within the Ministry of Labor, responsible for the operations
of the Industrial Training Centers. Enrollments in these
Centers are expected to increase through the proposed shifting
of the industrial training levy paid by private employers
from an employment to a capital consumption base. This is
expected to encourage the use of labor rather than add to its
cost. 1/
(b)  Agricultural Training.  Based on preliminary results of the
agricultural manpower survey (para. 1.10), the FDP proposes
agricultural education expansion programs over and above those
assisted under the Fourth Education project (Cr. 797-KE) as
follows:
(i)  Expansion of the Faculty of Agriculture through the
addition of programs in Range Management and Agri-
cultural Education;
(ii) expansion of the Egerton College of Agriculture from
650 to 1,630 student places (diploma level);
(iii) addition of a third Agriculture Institute (certificate
level), to be located in the Coast Region;
(iv) expansion of the Naivasha Dairy Training School and the
Athi River Meat Training Center.
(c) Cooperative Training. The FDP also proposes a study of manpower
needs and cooperative training for the subsector possibly leading
to an expansion of the Cooperative College.
1/   From levy funds, employers are reimbursed for the fees paid for the
training of their workers.



(d) Training for Water Development. The FDP aims at providing
safe water supply to the entire population by the year 2000.
In order to meet manpower needs to carry out this program, it
proposes the relocation and expansion of the existing water
training school.
(e) Health Training. To improve the quantity and quality of
health services, particularly in rural areas, the FDP
proposes the establishment of a new training institution for
clinical officers, of two new nurses training schools, and of
new facilities to train public health and laboratory technicians.
Other Programs
2.12      School Management.  The educational authorities have realized that a
major constraint to the efficient organization and administration of primary,
secondary and teacher training institutions has been the lack of training
of key administrative staff in management skills. The rapid expansion of
primary and secondary education has given rise to the appointment of head-
masters and their deputies after only limited experience as teachers and with
no training in school organization and administration. These appointees are
charged with the management of institutions which grow in complexity as new
curricula are developed, as the increasing demand for scarce physical facili-
ties calls for new organizational techniques, and in particular, as they
assume ever increasing responsibilities for a complicated and all embracing
accounting system of receipts and expenditures covering such varied items as
school fees and subscriptions, self help fund raising and construction/
maintenance projects, consumable materials, examination fees, and in the case
of the secondary schools, fees for tuition and for the boarding accommodation
which is a common feature of these institutions. Smaller primary school
administrations will handle between K.Sh.20,000 - 100,000 (US$2,700 - 13,500)
annually; in the typical secondary institution the cash flow may reach
K.Sh. 1-2 million (US$135,000 - 270,000) in each academic year. Primary school
staffing establishments do not include secretarial/accountancy assistance;
secondary schools have a bursar, or more commonly an accounts clerk, often of
indifferent capacity, whose transactions the headmaster is in most cases
incapable of supervising and controlling because of the latter-s lack of
training in this field. For these reasons, the Government has given highest
priority to the training of school managers.
2.13      Nine-Year Basic Education.  The NCEOP report had recommended extend-
ing basic education by two years. Although the FDP excluded such a proposal,
in November 1979, the President publicly announced his support for such exten-
sion. To date, no implementation plans have been prepared, but there are
indications that the program may be introduced in the near future.
Assessment of Government Plans and Policies
2.14      Primary Education.  The FDP target of a seven-year free primary
education for all is a significant step forward in meeting basic needs.
The subsequent decision of extending basic education for two more years,



- 8 -
however, raises a number of issues. Among them, it appears inappropriate to
lengthen the primary cycle at a time when much remains to be done to improve
the efficiency and general quality of both primary and secondary school
education. Moreover, the incremental expenditures the implementation of the
program would entail would not be compatible with the budgetary constraints
which have been set. The forward budget through FY1982/83 projects an increase
of only 4% per year in real terms for the recurrent expenditures of the MOBE. 1/
With an estimated growth of the primary school population of also about 4%
p.a., and even assuming an increase in the financial efficiency of the educa-
tion system, most of the annual increase in budgetary allocations would have
to be addressed to the financing of the expansion of the seven-year primary
education. Finally, it is doubtful whether the less affluent local communities
would be able to provide for the expansion of physical facilities required for
the additional two years of primary education. 2/
2.15      With regard to the milk distribution scheme, besides being very
costly, (about 4% of the budget of the Ministry of Education in FY1979/80), it
has apparently contributed to the critical shortages of milk in the domestic
market which occurred in March-April 1980.
2.16       Secondary Education.  The FDP proposals to limit Form I increase
in student intake in secondary schools to 2% annually and to emphasize the
expansion of science streams at the senior secondary level are reasonable.
Secondary school fees were increased by more than 50% in early 1980, and it
remains to be seen to what extent increased costs dampen the demand for
expansion of Government-aided secondary schools (harambee school fees have
risen in line with Government school fees). However, given the need to
improve general science teaching, the proposal to introduce a specialization
in practical science, particularly in agriculture, at the upper secondary
level may be questioned. Firstly, it has very little value as a basis for
proceeding to higher education (the aspiration of most of the students at the
upper secondary level); secondly, it requires special facilities, such as
farming land, which the schools would have to acquire; and thirdly, as an
optional subject, it would result in very limited enrollments which could
hardly justify the provision of specialized teaching staff.
2.17      School Management.  The proposed program for training school
managers is urgently needed. Such a program should result in increased
efficiency of the education system both from a pedagogical and financial
point of view.
2.18      University Education.  Due to the lack of an up-to-date manpower
study, it is difficult to project the requirements for university graduates.
However, known shortages exist in some fields and because of the low enroll-
ment of the corresponding age group (about 1%) the FDP proposal for an
annual expansion of 5% in the university's overall intake appears reasonable.
1/   Sessional Paper No. 4, of 1980.
2/   Local communities and municipalities are responsible for the construction
and maintenance of primary schools.



The main campus of the University of Nairobi is located in the city center
with little if any space for further physical expansion. There are practical
as well as political arguments in favor of a second university (para. 2.08).
2.19      Middle and Upper Level Manpower Training.  Most of the FDP proposals
for expansion of specialized training of middle- and higher-level manpower,
including agriculture, health and water development, are based on an assessment
of additional manpower requirements and are fully justified. The FDP also
rightly stresses the need for better coordination of training activities to
avoid duplication and waste.
2.20      Projected Expenditures of the Ministries of Education.  Since the
preparation of the FDP, the Kenyan economy has deteriorated substantially and
the prospects for the future have become significantly less favorable. This
makes it imperative that a thorough revision of education plans and policies
be carried out. In the coming years, the Government is likely to be able to
implement only the highest priority programs and even these may have to be
stretched over longer periods of time than originally projected. An indica-
tion of the financial difficulties that can be foreseen is given by the fact
that the FDP projected recurrent expenditures in education to grow at
approximately the same rate as total recurrent expenditures during the FDP
period, while in FY79/80 they had already grown over 50% faster than the total
(Annex III, Table 3.1). The revision of education plans will also have to take
into account that the latest estimate of school age population growth places
it at about 4% p.a. as compared with previous estimates of 3.5% p.a., and that
the recent division of the former Ministry of Education into two separate
ministries has brought about an expenditure increase in the general admin-
istration of education.
Role of the Bank Group in Kenyan Education Development
2.21      Since 1966 as described below, the Bank Group has assisted the
Republic of Kenya with four education projects totalling US$46.1 million
equivalent (US$3.30 per capita) for a total investment of US$67.8 million
(US$4.90 per capita).
2.22      The First Education Project (Credit 93-KE) approved in 1966 in the
amount of US$7.0 million financed a major expansion program involving construc-
tion and equipping of 42 general secondary schools, 9 technical schools and 11
teacher training colleges. The project was completed by the original Credit
Closing Date at a cost 8% above the appraisal estimate. In 1974, the Opera-
tions Evaluation Department reviewed the project and concluded that the
overall project objectives had been successfully met (OED Report Sec M74-79).
2.23      The Second Education Project (Credit 185-KE) was approved in 1970
in the amount of, US$6.1 million and was designed to expand training for
agriculture staff and farmers, secondary and technical education and primary
teacher training. The later substitution of a new secondary technical school
for expansion of an existing school at the Government's request contributed to
a two-year extension of the Closing Date. A Project Completion Report (PCR)
issued in 1978 and audited in 1979 (OED Report Sec M79-454) arrived at the
following conclusions:



- 10 -
(a) The quantitative targets had been met or exceeded. The
project facilities were basically fully utilized. In fact,
it was found that the demand for trained manpower in the
agricultural sector had been substantially underestimated and
that there was an undersupply of primary teachers. It was
noted, however, that the project appraisal had probably not
paid enough attention to the training of the staff of the
certificate level institutions and their quality was not up
to standards; and
(b) The physical implementation of those components for which
the Ministry of Works (MOW) had commissioned private archi-
tectural firms had made good progress, whereas the limited
MOW manpower devoted to the project had hindered design
work and site supervision for components entirely under
its own responsibility. Furthermore, there was a lack of
cooperation between the Ministry of Education's Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the MOW education team.
2.24      The Third Education Project (Loan 1184-KE), which was approved in
FY76 in the amount of US$10.0 million, focused on the expansion and improvement
of primary teacher training and on the distribution and storage of school
equipment as well as providing assistance for the development of curricula and
educational media. The project also provided assistance to the NCEOP which
issued its report in January 1977 (para. 2.04). Due to the fact that a major
part of the design work on the project was entrusted to the MOW, delays have
occurred reflecting the MOW's inability to carry out its work in a timely
manner (also noted in the Second Education Project), and the project is now
about two years behind the appraisal schedule. However, some of the lost time
is expected to be recovered since work has been assigned to private archi-
tectural firms and the project may be completed by December 1982, only
six months beyond the original Closing Date.
2.25      The Fourth Education Project (Credit 797-KE) was signed in June 1979
in the amount of US$23.0 million. This project includes a further expansion
of agricultural training capacity at degree and certificate levels, the
development of project management training, assistance to primary education
in disadvantaged areas and to post-primary craft training and support for
educational services, including curriculum development, examination research
and planning. As a result of the MOW's decision to employ private consulting
firms to carry out most of the design work, progress is basically satisfactory
and the project is expected to be completed by its original December 1982
Closing Date. However, there is a need to review the machinery for coordina-
tion and the respective roles of the PIU and the MOW, inter alios, and the
capacity of the PIU to handle procurement should be strengthened. The recent
division of the Ministry of Education has added further to the problems of
coordination.
Bank Group Strategy in the Education Sector
2.26      The principal objective of the proposed Fifth Education Project
is to support the Government's efforts in implementing the FDP to a feasi-
ible level within the Government's present financial constraints. To this



end, the proposed project is designed to assist in providing the necessary
manpower to enable the Government to carry out priority projects particu-
larly in agriculture and water resources development. Also in line with the
NCEOP report, the most critical recommendations of which were incorporated in
the FDP, is the proposal to strengthen and improve primary and secondary
education through the establishment of a staff development program for the
Ministries of Education. Furthermore, lessons learned during implementation
of earlier projects are being addressed in the proposed project. Thus, the
supply of qualified teaching staff for the project institutions is an important
component of the project (para. 3.27), and the implementation of the various
project components will be made more timely and efficient through strengthen-
ing the PIU and establishing its proper coordination with the various minis-
tries involved (paras. 5.02 and 5.03).
2.27      Bank Group strategy for future projects would also be geared to
supporting priority projects in Government development plans and would include
further assistance in training or education components in future industrial
and agricultural projects. With regard to general education, the Bank Group
should not be expected to play a major role in school construction. At the
primary level, this area is largely the responsibility of individual
communities and at the secondary level, expansion is taking place rapidly
without further Bank Group assistance. In sum, the Bank Group should focus
on further actions to improve the quality and efficiency of general education
and to expand education solely on the basis of identified manpower needs and
financial capacity, within a coordinated training system.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The proposed Fifth Education project is aimed at assisting Kenya,
in particular its public sector, in the training of the manpower required
to carry out at the managerial and middle-technical levels, specific programs
and projects in various fields. More precisely, the proposed project
would help in the training of: (a) primary and secondary schools management
staff; (b) high and middle-level technicians in agriculture; (c) high and
middle-level technicians entrusted with the implementation of water develop-
ment schemes; and (d) skilled workers for the industrial sector. The project
would also assist in the identification of the needs and availability of
business education and training in the country.
Project Components
3.02      Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI).  This component would
provide institutionalized in-service training in school management and
administration to some 10,000 headmasters, deputy headmasters, bursar/accounts
clerks, ancillary school staff and provincial district education officers and
the inspectorate. A modest KESI Management Center included in the proposed
project would be staffed by a Director/Principal of training, a Deputy
Principal, four professional staff, an Administrative Education Officer and



- 12 -
about 12 Clerical/Support staff. Two man-years of fellowships would be
included to provide four months of fellowship study abroad in school adminis-
tration to each of the six professional staff; one year of technical assistance
would allow for the short-term contracting of specialists to assist in the
development and planning of training courses for course tutors and for project
target beneficiaries. Training courses of 2 weeks each would be held during
the April and August school vacations, utilizing existing residential accom-
modation in teacher training colleges and similar institutions. Each course
would cover about 160 trainees, and would be directed by a member of the KESI
professional staff, assisted by 4 course tutors to be selected from experi-
enced headmasters, provincial/district education officers and inspectors. The
courses would comprise financial and human resources management techniques and
other aspects of school organization and administration. Nine courses would
be held in the first year of implementation, increasing to 12-14 courses
annually as expertise in course planning and administration developed. In
all, it is anticipated that some 10,000 of the estimated 12,000 personnel
requiring training could be accommodated within the proposed program over the
five-year term of the project. The school staff training would be the most
important single item to be financed under this project component which would
include modest facilities for the Management Center, the operational costs of
planning, executing, supervising and evaluating the training programs, includ-
ing the initial cost of the KESI staff participating in the project, and
transportation and subsistence expenditures both of the KESI personnel and
course participants. A satisfactory organization scheme and timetable for
carrying out the in-service training program has been reviewed by Bank Group
staff. The Government has provided assurances that the KESI would submit to
the Association through the PIU, annual progress reports on the in-service
training program.
3.03      Faculty of Agriculture.  The Faculty of Agriculture of the University
of Nairobi was founded in 1967. It was originally designed for an enrollment
of 120 students for a three-year program. Since then, due to the increasing
demand for graduate agricultural manpower, the Faculty has been expanded
several times. The Bank Group has been closely associated with the Faculty
since its creation, both in the Second and in the Fourth Education Projects.
Facilities being provided under the latter project are scheduled for comple-
tion in 1980, and will bring the total capacity of the Faculty to 690 student
places. The Faculty comprises the Departments of Agricultural Economics, Crop
Science, Soil Science, Food Science and Technology, Agricultural Engineering,
Animal Production, and Forestry. The latter started in the 1978/79 academic
year.  Teaching programs have been rapidly developed and currently offer
undergraduate courses leading to a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Agriculture,
Food Science and Technology, Agricultural Engineering, and Forestry, and
post-graduate studies leading to a Post graduate Diploma in Irrigation, a
Master of Science (MS) in various specializations and doctoral degrees.
However, trained manpower is lacking for the control of soil erosion in the
grazing areas, to help develop the livestock programs being assisted by
various agencies including the Bank Group, and to implement the forestry
sector development plan. The Government has consequently requested the
inclusion in the proposed project of a new Department of Range Management
and facilities for the recently established Department of Forestry, which is



- 13 -
temporarily housed in the farm buildings of the Faculty. The two new Depart-
ments included in the proposed project would add 165 student places to the
Faculty leading to a total new capacity of about 855 boarding students and an
annual output of about 250 undergraduates and 30 graduates.
3.04      This expansion is fully justified on manpower grounds.  The Govern-
ment gives high priority to the conservation and rehabilitation of rangelands
and to the country's ecological stability. Range areas comprise about two-
thirds of the Kenyan landmass.  These areas, which are mainly used as communal
grazing land by pastoralists, support both the meat industry and the wildlife
population that is so important for tourism. To man the development in these
areas, there is an urgent need for range science graduates. The objective of
the proposed Range Management Department is to provide such training more
economically and in a manner better suited to the conditions and problems of
the East African rangelands. The Department would enroll about 90 students in
a three-year BS level course. In the field of forestry, the need has been
realized for an immediate aggresive policy of afforestation in marginal and
semi-arid lands, not only to face the critical challenge of future fuel
demands but also to create green belts to combat the threatening spread of
desert conditions. In addition, there is an extensive, Bank Group-aided
afforestation scheme in Western Kenya for a pulp and paper mill at Webuye.
Finally, great emphasis has been placed on rural afforestation and forest
extension services throughout the country. All the above programs require
highly qualified personnel who in the past had to be trained abroad.  This,
however, has often proved inappropriate for the specific forestry problems
existing in Kenya. With the proposed new facilities, the Department of
Forestry would enroll about 75 students in a three-year course leading to a BS
(Forestry) degree.
3.05      In order to ensure high teaching standards for both Departments and
to allow them to develop their own teaching and research expertise, included
would be technical assistance of 18 man-years for specialists and 28 man-years
for fellowships. A satisfactory staff development plan for both Departments
has been reviewed by Bank Group staff. The Government has provided assurances
that the University would submit to the Association, through the PIU, annual
progress reports on staff development. The proposed component also includes
teaching and boarding facilities as well as some transportation facilities.
Due to the distance of the campus from Nairobi (14 kms), together with the
stringent housing situation prevailing in the city (the University provides
either subsidized housing or rental allowances for its teaching staff), the
component includes provision for staff housing. In view of the importance
of field training, especially for future range managers, the project would
also include a limited number of teaching, boarding, staff housing and trans-
portation facilities at the Field Station of Kibwezi.
3.06      Coast Agricultural Institute.  Agricultural Education at the
certificate level is offered at the two Agricultural Institutes at Embu and
Bukura in a two-year certificate course in agriculture with a home economics



- 14 -
option for women. The Animal Health and Industry Training Institute (AHITI)
also offers two-year certificate courses in animal health, range management,
and a one-year course in leather technology, in addition to a number of courses
in artificial insemination, each lasting about four weeks. Embu and Bukura
have been assisted both under the Second and Fourth Education Projects. With
the facilities being provided under the latter project, the two Institutes
will total 800 student places. The AHITI has a capacity of 250 students,
and a new AHITI with 360 places is being provided at Ndomba under the Fourth
Education Project. Certificate holders are mainly employed by the Ministry
of Agriculture as field extension officers. 1/ At present, a critical short-
age of this type of manpower exists in the country, and this is felt in the
implementation of development projects in the sector, particularly in the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP), and in the staffing of
most agricultural/veterinary services.
3.07      The Study on agriculture manpower requirements, mentioned in para-
graph 1.10 above, includes alternative projections for the demand for agricul-
ture certificate holders through 1988. While the assumptions underlying some
of these projections might have appeared realistic at the time the study was
carried out (1977), the subsequent sharp deterioration in Kenya's economic
conditions, makes even the least ambitious projection unattainable. A new
projection has been prepared using the same methodology as in the USAID
Study, but replacing some of the parameters, assumed in the study, by magni-
tudes which appeared to be more consistent with recently reviewed country
development projections. The assumptions underlying the new projection
deviate from those underlying the low projection in the Study as follows: (a)
the budgets of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the rest of the public
sector are projected to grow at 4% p.a. as compared with 7% and 10% p.a.,
respectively in the Study; (b) within the MOA, 200 junior technical assistants
on average per year are projected to be replaced by certificate holders, as
compared with 340 in the the Study; and (c) private sector demand for certi-
ficate holders is projected to grow at 5% p.a. as compared with almost 12%
in the Study. By 1988, according to the low projection in the Study, 15,400
jobs would be available for agriculture certificate holders (4,640 were in
post in 1977) while according to the new projection, the number would only
be about 9,400 jobs.
3.08      In order to meet the demand for field extension officers, and to
fill a critical training gap in one of the major agro-ecological regions of
Kenya, the Government requested the inclusion in the proposed project of the
Coast Agricultural Institute, (certificate level) to be located at Kilifi,
50 km north of Mombasa. The Institute would have full teaching and boarding
facilities for 400 students as well as transportation facilities, mainly for
field work, and would also include staff housing facilities. One fourth of
the student places would be reserved for women. When the Institute is in
full operation, it will bring the total output of certificate level training
1/   In 1977, about 95% of the available certificate holders were employed
by the public sector.



- 15 -
institutions to about 900 p.a. Taking into account wastage rates, this output
would be consistent with the numbers required to fill the 9,400 certificate
level positions projected to be available in 1988. 1/
3.09      In order to enable the new Institute to start operations efficiently,
the project would also include a technical assistance component of 28 man-years
for specialist teachers and 20 man-years of fellowships. The new Institute
would provide the same well-rounded type of training offered by the Agricul-
tural Institutes at Embu and Bukura. Its curriculum, however, would be geared
to the training of field extension officers able to deal with the different
crops, ecological conditions and agricultural production systems of the
coastal areas. The location that has been chosen (Kilifi) combines ideal
conditions for field training and practical extension work among neighbouring
farmers. A students exchange program between the three Agricultural Institutes
is under study. This program would enable all students to familiarize them-
selves with the agricultural conditions of the three different ecological
areas in the country. The Government has given assurances that by December 31,
1981, it would provide a satisfactory plan for the technical assistance
program and would also submit to the Bank Group, through the PIU beginning in
December 1981, annual progress reports on its staff development program.
3.10      Kenya Water Resources Training Institute (KWRTI).  Within the
high priority assigned to rural development and meeting basic needs, the
Government in 1970, initiated a series of rural water supply programs with the
ultimate objective of providing all the rural population with safe water by
the year 2000. At present, the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) operates
some 350 rural and urban water supply schemes, and by 1988 this number is
likely to be more than doubled. In the FDP, the water development program is
the third largest single item in the Government's development budget.
3.11      Manpower needs of the MWD were identified in a Management Study
Report issued in April 1978. On the basis of this report, the MWD's manpower
advisor projected training requirements for the medium and longer-run. These
estimates indicate that the MWD annual average recruitment (all cadres) will
be about 1,400 staff in the next five years, and by 1988, the total workforce
will have increased from its present level of 5,800 staff (excluding casual
labor) to about 18,000 staff (with over 10,000 of the new staff engaged in the
sub-professional skilled and semiskilled grades). In addition to the training
required for new staff, the MWD needs continuous in-service and refresher
training for its staff. Furthermore, a number of water supply and sewerage
systems operated by municipal councils have substantial unmet training needs.
3.12      The existing Water Department Training School, at its present
location, cannot expand its capacity beyond 185 trainees per year. This
is far below the training capacity required to meet the needs for carrying
out the present and planned water development programs. The Government
1/   It is estimated that in 1988, 880-900 new certificate holders would
find employment in the economy.



- 16 -
therefore, requested Bank Group assistance in the establishment of a new
school with a capacity more consistent with training demands. The MWD
recognizes that the formidable training needs envisaged are unlikely to be
fully met by one new central multi-purpose training institution, and has thus
decided to institute training at two levels. Sub-professional and skilled
workers cadres would be trained in the proposed new central KWRTI, while
lower grades would be trained at the provincial level in institutions such as
Harambee Institutes, Craft Training Centers or Industrial Training Centers.
The existing water school will principally be utilized for the training of
lower grade staff when the KWRTI becomes fully operational in 1984/85.  The
KWRTI would, however, be responsible for programs, standards and certification
of all training courses carried out in the institutions mentioned above.
3.13      The specific objectives of the KWRTI which would be established
for about 400 trainee places, 30 of which would be reserved for women, are
as follows: a) Provide job-related training for the middle-level manpower
required to carry out medium- and longer-term water development programs;
(b) provide the necessary training for the cadres who would be responsible
for planning, implementing and controlling training programs at the central
institution, in the selected provincial institutions and on-the-job; and
(c) fill the serious technician level gap by establishing a two-and-a-half
year Ordinary Diploma Course in Water Engineering, coordinating its program
with those of the Kenya Polytechnic. The course would be geared to training
for positions at supervisory and technician levels in water engineering.
3.14      The main components of the KWRTI training program would be:  (a)  A
common pre-selection introductory course for potential engineering assistants
(water and sewerage); assistant hydrologists; ground water, water and sewerage,
and drilling inspectors; and water bailiffs. Annual intake would be about
180 trainees for 5-months courses; (b) an Ordinary Diploma Course in Water
Engineering for an annual intake of 60 trainees for a two-and-a-half years
course of which nine months on a sandwich basis arrangement. (c) job-related
short courses for water and sewerage operators, pump mechanics, hydrology
assistants, ground water assistants, drilling assistants, etc., for a total
annual training intake of about 200 trainees; and (d) in-service training
for a total of 3,200 man-weeks (800 trainees for 4 weeks courses per year).
3.15      A suitable site for the KWRTI has been selected at Kajiado, about
70 km from Nairobi. The preliminary layout for the building has been prepared.
The project would provide classrooms, laboratories and workshop facilities,
including machinery and equipment for the training courses; boarding and
catering facilities for the trainees, and because of the unavailability of
local housing, it would provide living accommodations for about 46 faculty
and administrative staff and about 70 ancillary staff. The project would also
provide a substantial amount of technical assistance.
3.16      The Institute would require a full-time teaching staff of 34, and
an additional full-time equivalent of 5-7, to be provided by part-time visiting
experts from the MWD or private firms operating in the sector. The adminis-
trative and support staff is estimated at about 80 employees.



- 17 -
3.17      In order to provide qualified and competent teaching staff for
the KWRTI, a staff development program has been prepared. It consists
of a phased program of technical and instructor training for 50 teaching
staff beginning in 1981 and ending in mid-1987. Each trainee would receive
technical training both locally and abroad, and the instructor training would
be arranged in cooperation with the Kenya Technical Teachers College in
Nairobi. Twenty-five man-years of fellowships for training abroad would be
provided by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA). Further-
more, during the project implementation period, technical assistance of ten
experts would be required for a total of about 32 man-years, out of which 17
man-years would be included in the project, while the balance would be pro-
vided also by SIDA as part of their on-going Technical Assistance Program for
the MWD. A preliminary plan for the technical assistance program has been
reviewed by the Association. The Government has given assurances that by
December 31, 1981, it would provide a satisfactory plan for the technical
assistance program and would also submit to the Association, through the PIU
beginning in December 1981, annual progress reports on its staff development
program.
3.18      Industrial Training Centers (ITCs).  The three ITCs in Nairobi,
Kisumu and Mombasa, under the Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) of the
Ministry of Labor are training skilled craftsmen in accordance with "The
National Industrial Training Scheme for the Training of Craft Apprentices."
Most trainees are sponsored by employers for "sandwich" courses consisting
of 12 weeks training during the first year and two six-week training periods
during each of the two subsequent years. Most of the trainees have previously
completed Form IV of the secondary technical schools. The present training
facilities of the Centers for craft apprenticeship courses (other short
courses are also carried out in the Centers) provide about 700 places. However,
full utilization has not been reached due to some shortcomings in planning and
administration, insufficient hostel accommodations, and due to the fact that
the Mombasa Center has not yet completed its running-in cycle and rebuilding
is still underway in the Nairobi Center.
3.19      Although no comprehensive study on manpower requirements for skilled
craftsmen has been carried out, the growth of the labor force in the indus-
trial sector (over 10,000 per year, including self-employed and unpaid family
workers in 1970-77), the high number of applicants for the trade tests (12,000
in 1979), and industry's request for specific apprenticeship training (in
early 1980 from the few reports which had already been submitted by companies
for the term 1980/81, training demands in all tr'des amounted to 765 trainees),
indicate that the craft training facilities at the ITCs are insufficient to
meet expected training demands. Moreover, with the introduction of the
industrial training levy in the early 1970s, the proceeds of which are used to
reimburse employers for training expenses, the Government is committed to meet
the training needs of those industries contributing to the levy. In this
respect, mainly because of the limitation of the ITCs training facilities, an
important share of the levy proceeds remain undisbursed.
3.20      The ITC in Nairobi has been developed by and continues to be
assisted by various donor agencies, while both the Kisumu and Mombasa Centers
have been established through assistance from the Danish Government through
its aid agency, DANIDA. This agency continues to provide technical assistance



- 18 -
to both Centers and has been requested by the Government to extend and expand
such assistance. In particular, DANIDA has been asked to provide all
technical assistance and equipment needed in connection with the projected
expansion of facilities for the two Centers. The Government has requested the
Bank Group to include in the proposed project the construction and furnishing
of this expansion. Because coordination between agencies is crucial for the
success of the project, the appraisal of this component was carried out
jointly with DANIDA.
3.21      The expansion of the Kisumu Industrial Training Center (KITC) would
include additional classrooms and a new workshop for the construction trades
(carpentry, masonry, building construction and painting) with a capacity of 96
work places, increasing the overall educational capacity of the Center from
228 to 324 trainee places. Because the shortage of boarding places (only 120
are available) is a serious constraint to the efficient utilization of the
Center, the provision of 180 additional places has been included in the
project. This expansion and consolidation program is expected to result in
the more efficient use of instructors so that only five additional instructors
would be required (an increase from 28 to 33). Since 1978, instructors are
being satisfactorily trained in the Technological Institutes and in the Kenya
Technical Teachers Training College.
3.22      The Mombasa Industrial Training Center (MITC) has at present a
training and hostel capacity of 156 trainee places. Because of past manage-
ment problems (now being resolved), a shortage of Kenyan instructors, and
because the running-in period has yet to be completed, the facilities are not
fully utilized. At the same time, there is evidence of unsatisfied training
demand in the area with apprentices waiting for over a year to start their
MITC training. The proposed project would provide two workshops for the
introduction of new training courses; one for electrical trades (60 places)
and one for construction/carpentry trades (72 places) which would increase
the overall capacity of the Center to about 288 trainee places. Also included
would be classrooms, an electrical laboratory, hostels for 90 students and six
staff houses. The number of instructors would be increased from the present
16 to 29 when the expanded Center is in full operation. These instructors
will also be trained in the Technological Institutes and in the Kenya Technical
Teachers Training College.
3.23      DANIDA has an ongoing program assisting these Institutes and as its
participation would be part of the agency's broader program, its cost has not
been included in the proposed project. However, the contribution has been
tentatively estimated at about US$1.6 million equivalent, with about US$0.6
million expected to finance equipment and about US$1.0 million expected to
finance 21 man-years of technical assistance. The latter, in addition to 9
man-years of expert services for each of the two centers, includes 3 man-years
of expert services to assist the DIT in the planning and coordinating of
technical training programs.
3.24      The Government has provided:  (a) assurance that an agreement has
been reached with DANIDA on the provision of the necessary equipment and
technical assistance (para. 3.23); and (b) assurances that the DIT is



- 19 -
committed to organize with the Technological Institutes and the Kenya Technical
Teachers Training College, timely programs for the training of the instructors
required by the expansion of the ITCs.
3.25      Pre-Investment Study on Business Education.  There are indications
that qualified manpower at the various levels in the business field is in
short supply in Kenya. However, there is no precise information on the
magnitude of the shortages, nor on the country's available capacity to
provide business education and training.  Thus, the Government requested
the inclusion in the proposed project of a pre-investment study on development
of business education and training.
3.26      The purpose of the study is:  (a)  to identify the manpower needs
for qualified personnel in the business field at the various levels (managers,
accountants, bookkeepers, secretaries, etc.) both for the public and private
sectors; (b) to identify the availability of facilities for business educa-
tion and training; and (c) if justified, propose fully costed concrete projects
for improving and/or expanding business education and training programs. The
study would cover both quantitative and qualitative aspects, placing particular
emphasis on the assessment of curricula and teachers  and trainers  qualifica-
tions and performance. In this endeavor, the MOHE has committed itself to
coordinate the study. A Steering Committee, including representatives of the
Ministries of Higher Education, Commerce, Industry and Economic Planning and
Development, and the Federation of Kenya Employers will be established to
prepare terms of reference for the study. The Government has given assurances
that it would establish the Steering Committee by not later than September 30,
1981. This Committee would prepare terms of reference and a timetable for
carrying out the study. The proposed project would finance the services of
experts and consultants, transportation and travel, secretarial assistance and
other costs related to the study. The Bank Group would periodically be
consulted on the findings of the Committee and would be furnished, by not
later than June 30, 1983, with the conclusions of the study for comments.
3.27      Technical Assistance Summary.  The proposed project includes 68.5
man-years of specialist services (advisors and teaching staff) and 50.0 man-
years of fellowships, as follows:
Component                   Specialist Services       Fellowships
-(Man-years)-------------
KESI                                       1.0                  2.0
Faculty of Agriculture                   18.0                  28.0
Coast Agricultural Institute             28.0                  20.0
KWRTI 1/                                 17.0                    -
Project Administration                    4.5                    -
Total                               68.5                 50.0
Technical assistance specialists and fellowships would be selected in con-
sultation with the Bank Group and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank Group.
1/   Re:  Para 3.17 for specialists and fellowships to be provided by SIDA.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$55.0 million
equivalent, including customs duties and taxes estimated at about US$1.8
million. The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given
in Annex III, Tables 3.2 and 3.3, and are summarized as follows:



- 21 -
KSH. (MILLIONS)             US$ (MILLIONS)
% of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Base Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Vehicles
1.  Kenya Education Staff    1.67        1.52      3.19   0.22    0.20        0.42       1%
Institute
2.  Faculty of Agriculture  18.75    11.10    29.85   2.48    1.46            3.94      10%
3.  Coast Agricultural        37.13    24.22    61.35   4.90    3.20          8.10      21%
Institute
4.  Water Resources           41.13    25.18    66.31   5.43    3.32          8.75      22%
Training Institute
5.  Mombasa Industrial         7.68      3.39    11.07   1.01    0.45         1.46       4%
Training Center
6.  Kisumu Industrial         10.19      4.51    14.70   1.34    0.60         1.94       5%
Training Centre
Sub-Total I              116.55    69.92   186.47  15.38    9.23         24.61      63%
II. Studies and Technical           10.75    43.02    53.77   1.42    5.68          7.10      18%
Assistance
III.Professional Services (A/E)  13.23    19.84    33.07   1.75    2.62             4.37      11%
IV. In-Service Training              7.04     3.01    10.05   0.93    0.40          1.33       3%
V.  Project Administration           9.27     4.36    13.63   1.23    0.57          1.80       5%
Base Cost (Jan.1981)        156.84   140.15   296.99  20.71   18.50         39.21    100%
Total (I-V)
VI. Contingencies
1.  Physical Increase         11.12      5.83    16.95    1.47   0.77         2.24
(6%)
2.  Price Increase            59.15    43.47   102.62    7.81   5.74         13.55
(33%)
Sub-Total VI              70.27    49.30   119.57    9.28   6.51         15.79
Project Cost                 227.11   189.45   416.56   29.99  25.01         55.00
(I-VI)
of which taxes               (13.63)      -      (13.63)  (1.80)   -         (1.80)
4.02      Local cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and
vehicles are the result of a review by Bank Group staff of data provided by:
(a) the Ministry of Works (MOW), through its activities covering the whole



- 22 -
building sector; (b) the PIU, based on its experience with implementing the
Third and Fourth Education Projects (Loan 1184-KE and Credit 797-KE) and
recent contracts awarded in the above three categories; and (c) the private
sector, including firms of architects, quantity surveyors and contractors.
Base unit construction costs (January, 1981) vary from US$330 to $400 per
square meter, depending on the location, type of building and educational
level for which the building is intended. Although direct comparison is not
possible due to the specialized nature of the training facilities included
in the project, the above prices compare favorably with post-secondary
institutions in Malawi, US$350 equivalent per square meter (1979), Tanzania,
$300-400 equivalent (1977) and Zambia $335-400 equivalent (1977). Schedules of
accommodation are economical and appropriate to accomplish the educational
objectives of the project. The average cost per man-year of technical assist-
ance specialists is estimated at about US$90,000 and fellowships at about
US$15,000.
4.03      Custom Duties and Taxes.  Items directly imported for the proposed
project would be exempt from import duties and taxes. The project has been
costed net of import duties and taxes on these items but the total cost
includes taxes and duties estimated at about US$1.8 million equivalent,
representing taxes on locally procured construction materials and equipment
imported directly by contractors, on off-the-shelf purchases of furniture
and equipment, and on locally procured services.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 6% has been
added to the base cost. Price contingencies have been calculated by applying
to the base costs (as of January 15, 1981) the following percentage rates of
price escalation in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex III,
Table 3.4):
Year    Civil Works, &
Professional       Furniture       Equipment, &      Technical Assistance, Studies,
Services (A/E)                    Vehicles             & Project Administration
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local                Foreign
1981     22    9.0       15    12.0          14     9.0         12              13.0
1982     10    8.5       10      8.5        10      8.5         10               8.5
1983-85   8    7.5        8      7.5          8     7.5          8               7.5
Local price contingencies for civil works and professional services for 1981 are
relatively high due to the prevailing boom in the construction industry which
is expected to continue placing increasing pressure over supplies in the near



- 23 -
term. The price increase estimates for 1981 are based on the information
discussed in para. 4.02 above. In 1981, local contingencies for furniture are
higher due to new import duties on foreign furniture, which will raise the
price of locally manufactured items, while technical assistance and project
administration are similarly affected by a new tax on income levied by the
Government on foreigners working in Kenya. The price escalation for other
components and other years has been calculated on the basis of the most
recent projections of domestic and world price increases.
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has been
calculated as follows: (a) site development, construction, in-service training
and project administration, 30%; (b) furniture, 40%; (c) equipment and vehicles,
90%; (d) technical assistance and studies, 80%; and (e) professional services,
60%. The total foreign exchange component, estimated at US$25.0 million
equivalent, represents 47% of total project cost excluding duties and taxes.
Financial Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$55.0 million equivalent would be
financed with an IDA Credit of SDR 31.4 million (US$40.05 million equivalent),
representing 75% of project cost excluding duties and taxes. The Credit would
cover the foreign exchange component and 53% of local currency cost excluding
duties and taxes and the Government would provide about US$15 million equiva-
lent as follows:
US$ MILLIONS EQUIVALENT
Government         IDA         Total
1.  Civil Works                              6.05           14.00        20.05
2.  Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles        0.13             4.50        4.63
3.  Technical Assistance                      1.24            5.70        6.94
4.  Professional Services (A/E)              0.92             3.45        4.37
5.  Pre-investment study                      0.05            0.10        0.15
6.  In-Service Training                      0.33             1.00        1.33
7.  Project Administration                   0.54             1.20        1.74
8.  Contingencies                             5.69           10.10       15.79
Total                                    14.95           40.05        55.00 1/
Of which taxes                            (1.80)           -          (1.80)
4.07      Both the project capital costs and the incremental recurrent costs
to be generated by the project will be borne by the various Ministries under
which the new institutions will operate, i.e., the two Ministries of Education,
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Development and the Ministry
of Labor. The annual average capital expenditure required by the project,
(about US$7.5 million equivalent) will account for less than 4% of the
projected development budget of the five Ministries concerned. Moreover, the
contribution to these expenditures from Government savings will be only about
1/   Does not include DANIDA's participation in the ITCs.



- 24 -
24%, which is lower than the corresponding estimated contribution to the
overall development budget (32%). 1/
4.08      The incremental recurrent expenditures required by the full operation
of the project are estimated at about US$2.6 million p.a., which would be less
than one percent of the estimated combined recurrent budget of the Ministries
concerned. From the individual ministries point of view, the highest impact
on the recurrent budget (less than 4%) would be felt by the Ministry of Water
Development. Thus, the components of the proposed Project which are consistent
with the country's development priorities, would also be consistent with the
projected financing capacity of the Central Government.
Project Preparation Facility
4.09      In October, 1980, IDA approved an advance of US$370,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which would be refinanced under the
proposed Credit when it becomes effective. The provision of these funds has
facilitated an early start in the recruitment of staff and training abroad
for the Education Staff Institute, and thus will maximize the number of school
staff trained during the Project's five-year implementation period. These
funds are also being used to finance the professional services of consultant
architects and engineers for the preparation of detailed designs for the
Faculty of Agriculture, the Coast Agricultural Institute, the Water Resources
Training Institute and the Industrial Training Centers. This is expected to
shorten the implementation period of these components by at least six months.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Implementation
5.01      The project would be implemented over a period of about five years
including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals from the
credit account. It would be expected to be completed by December 31, 1985
with a proposed Closing Date of June 30, 1986 (Annex III, table 3.4).
5.02      Administration.  The PIU within the Ministry of Basic Education
which is implementing the Third and Fourth Education Projects would also be
responsible for the implementation of the proposed Project. The Unit is
staffed with a project director, an accountant, support staff and the services
of an architect (provided by DANIDA and the Fourth Education Project until
September 30, 1981). The proposed project would finance the continuing
services of an architect for a period of four-and-one-half-years. The PIU
would also be strengthened by the services of an assistant project director
(educator), a procurement officer and a quantity surveyor, all provided by the
Government. Due to the serious financial constraints facing the country, the
proposed project would cover incremental operating costs of the PIU including
salaries, utilities, vehicles, fuel and maintenance.
1/   Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1980 of the Government of Kenya.



- 25 -
5.03      In order to insure that the Project priorities are respected and
timely counterpart funds are allocated and, in general, that project imple-
mentation, including procurement, proceeds smoothly, good coordination between
the PIU and the several ministries involved in the Project has to be estab-
lished. For this purpose, all ministries involved in the project, including
the Ministries of Works, Finance, and Econolmic Planning and Development would
appoint by not later than June 30, 1981, representatives to coordinate with
the PIU and who would have the necessary authority to decide and/or to obtain
a rapid decision from their superiors in any situation where the implementation
of any specific project component may be affected.
5.04      Reporting and Evaluation.  Progress reports on implementation
would be submitted on a regular basis (normally semi-annually) following a
mutually agreed upon format. Each Ministry involved in the project would
submit their report to the PIU who would coordinate and forward a combined
report to the Association.
5.05      Not later than five months after the Credit Closing Date, the
PIU with assistance from all Ministries involved, would provide the Asso-
ciation with a report evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs
and benefits of the proposed project, and the performance of the Government
and the Association, including lessons learned during project implementation.
5.06      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  For preparation
of designs, construction documents and supervision of construction, consultants
would be selected and appointed on terms and conditions mutually agreeable to
the Borrower and the Association. The MOW would carry out the design work for
the KESI except for electrical engineering services and the Kisumu ITC except
for quantity surveying services. However, should the MOW not be able to
provide the services for the Kisumu ITC on an agreed schedule, then consultants
would be retained. The services provided by the MOW, except for about two
vehicles to be provided under the project for construction supervision, are
provided at no cost to the project. Preliminary sketch designs for the Coast
Agricultural Institute and the KWRTI have been prepared as part of the feas-
ibility studies for these institutions. Existing standardised designs are
expected to be utilized as far as possible for the ITCs and the Faculty of
Agriculture.
5.07      Site Selection.  For the expansion of the ITCs of Mombasa and Kisumu
and the Faculty of Agriculture, sufficient land adjacent to the existing
premises is available. For the new KWRTI, the KESI and the Coast Agricultural
Institute, satisfactory sites owned by the Government have been selected and
acquired.
Procurement
5.08      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for procurement except as follows: (a) civil works con-
tracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent each (estimated to total US$0.6
million) and (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each (estimated to total US$0.2 million).  Contracts



- 26 -
for items (a) and (b) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
5.09      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of con-
struction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles (including proposed
grouping) would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the
extent practicable to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation
documents by the Association prior to award would not be required for civil
works contracts costing less than US$500,000 equivalent and contracts for
furniture, equipment and vehicles costing less than US$100,000 equivalent.
Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference
of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
Disbursement
5.10      Disbursement (Annex III, Table 3.5) would be on the basis of:
(a) 70% of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for imported furniture, equipment, and vehicles; 100% of ex-factory cost
when manufactured locally or 70% of local expenditures for imported goods,
when procured locally; (c) 70% of local expenditures for training costs and
for incremental operational costs of project administration; and (d) 100% of
foreign expenditures or 70% of local expenditures, for technical assistance,
and professional services. Disbursements against (a), (b), and (d) would be
fully documented. Disbursements for (c), estimated at US$1.2 million equi-
valent, would be made against a statement of expenditures, the documentation
for which would not be submitted for review, but retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection by the Association during the course of a
project supervision mission. Based upon experience in previous education
projects, the PIU has satisfactory institutional capacity to use the statement-
of-expenditures procedure.
5.11      Auditing.  Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures
financed under this project, in particular for those expenditures reimbursed
under statement of expenditure. Auditing would be performed by auditors
acceptable to the Association, applying satisfactory auditing procedures.
Audit reports would be submitted to the Association within six months follow-
ing the end of each of the Borrower-s fiscal years.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would provide assistance in implementing the
NCEOP recommendations on improving quality and efficiency in the general
education system (para. 2.04). It would also assist in the training of medium
and high level manpower required for effective implementation of specific
public development programs included in the FDP, and in the training of the
labor force of enterprises contributing to the industrial training levy.
Specifically, the project would assist in:



- 27 -
(a) the in-service training of about 10,000 MOBE and MOHE staff
responsible for school management and administration;
(b) the annual provision of about 30 and 25 BS graduates in range
management and forestry, respectively, and 200 agriculture
certificate holders, the majority of them to be engaged in the
Government's rural development programs;
(c) the training of the medium and high level technicians required
for effective implementation of the Government's extensive
water development program;
(d) the training of industrial workers in electrical and construc-
tion/carpentry trades for enterprises contributing to the
industrial training levy; and
(e) the identification of business education needs and possible develop-
ment of programs to meet such needs.
Risks
6.02      No major risks are envisaged.  However, certain lessons learned from
past experience are being addressed in the proposed project. Thus, to avoid
a shortage of qualified teaching staff for the project institutions, the
necessary specialist services and fellowships are either included in the
project or provided by other bilateral agencies (paras. 3.17, 3.23 and 3.27).
Also to minimize implementation delays, the PIU, responsible for such implemen-
tation, is being strengthened through additional staff; to ensure appropriate
cooperation between this unit and the ministries involved in the project, each
ministry would have to appoint a representative to coordinate the work with
the PIU and the MOW participation in the design of the facilities was clarified
(paras. 2.26, 5.02, 5.03 and 5.06).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) Annual progress reports would be submitted to the Association
beginning in December 1981 on the progress of. (i) the
in-service training program of the KESI (Para. 3.02); and
(i,> the staff development programs for the Faculty of
Agriculture, the Coast Agricultural Institute, and the
KWRTI (paras. 3.05, 3.09 and 3.17);
(b) programs satisfactory to the Association would be submitted
by December 31, 1981, for the technical assistance to be
included in the project for the Coast Agricultural Institute
and the KWRTI (paras. 3.09 and 3.17);



- 28 -
(c) the technical assistance and equipment to be provided by
DANIDA to the Industrial Training Centers; and a timetable
for the training of national teaching staff for the Industrial
Training Centers (para. 3.24);
(d) the establishment of the Steering Committee no later than
September 30, 1981, the draft terms of reference for the
Committee, a timetable for carrying out the Preinvestment
Study on Business Education, the periodical consultation
with the Bank on the findings of the Committee and the sub-
mission to the Bank for comments of the conclusions of the
study (para. 3.26);
(e) the appointment of coordinating representatives to the PIU by
the Ministries responsible for the various components of the
Project by June 30, 1981 (para. 5.03); and
(f) the specific project components which would be designed and
supervised by the MOW (para. 5.06).
7.02      Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 31.4 million (US$40.05 million equivalent) to
the Republic of Kenya on standard IDA terms.



- 29 -
CW ANATIVE EDUCATION INOICATOSis                                                          ANNEX    I
J. 1981                                                             Page    1    of    2
- ----------------------------------
I                 t         a        t           I       t            I            I                I         A
.1 ONPI : I GNP    So TOTALS%  Of PV8LIC I                  t        I           :Pat. SAV.041.   S                I        :stc   2         S
CAPITAII DEVOTED:PUEALIC : E.FuCATION    ILITER- tPRI. ICOMPLE- :STU- 83CN.TEAC",PROGQESS-S SeC. 13TU- gHKGKOI
11                   g                 R         S          tENROLLITink         TDE4TSS3ALARY 114110% RArE 'ENOOLLIHNTSIENROLLt
TUEtw         p            RENT       ACY
2                    (PPOLI-ot,,U,fio.Ex.CUALL.CATEDS  RATE IRATtO tOtATE FURinR   IRELATION ifNL"R P%t.:RATtu iPEst  imaTtu S
S T       S                                      Pat.  m. TtL         TO rNP/ $TO SEC.   a NET   STEACH. GROSSO
aPoo. 10141CESs El .             .U             TII         C'S UF   SNET   I        3C    t  ACN,
YRSMILL3.; EUSS)f ONLY)  SEDU. :P01T. SEC. 41.,SAOUL73)t (Z)   SCYCLCMTER    I CAPITA   9  (1)                                    (2)              (S)
I        I        I           S                                      t        I           I       t            I                     :90    :
I (1) 31  (a) t   CS)    I(6)3                  (SI          (b)    1(7)   3    (8)    t (9) I   (101    c (11)             :(121   W.1) 8(14)    S
- ------------ - -- - -
ADVANCED
&US               74    7.56 S'624G         S.311,   S.SEY   aev  Sir  lly    99             qa        939        260       2.00        940        SID      L"      16.03y
CAMADA            Ta  23.S   9,17(i         7.3F   16.701   2S    39    23         99        qo       too         21        2.0F       too         92       is      22.00
F.1110.78  61:4           01      3       10.1f    ...  ...  ...    49            gof       too        ...                  too         94       aac    12.00
JAVAN             7      I 6       s           M 20.7E    #0fly IIUY IIUV  99                1090      TIC        Zs        2.00        "C        "XI    lec    14.69Y
matKOLAmOS    78   i3.9   4,300             q.0    22.40    20    33    24         90        96        93         19        2.0F        90        Si        13      la.la
men ZEALANO    ?3    3.1& 4,20OG            S.R    ...         19    24    j4      49        49        99         26        ...         99         67       19      24.00
me*" v            70    ". 9  6,0*3         T.g    14.4        54    24    1 1     94        99                   16        I.S         qqE       62        11      11.00
SWEDEN            76    6.2  11,ISO         8.4    14.0       23    29    12       99        q*        ot         16        ...         90?       &SC       13      30.00C
U.9.              7S   3-.0   1,760         1.1    13.9        26    41    la      94        99        ...        24        2.0         ...       be-   17          al.0011
U.$.Jk.           Ts 216.4   9.700          S.41L  15.96   ...    s?-- ta                    qs        99         12"       ...         99        97        19"    41.00
cumpE
;;EECE            76    9.1  Z'S96          2.6    10.4        37    26    21      $66       90        SOD        3t       2.0          7GE       so        27      11.06
IRELAND           14    I.IG 1.6206         5.1    13.90    63Y  41Y   14Y    44           toaxv       119A       35       ...          93A       bsxy    19       19.47Y
PBRTUSAL          77    9.7   I'aso         3.6    IS.4        at    21    Is       7OG       82       60-        1-1      2.0          7s.        3S       12       S.40
QGaANIA           75  21.2   1.240          4.0      6.4       36    t9    L3      98        lot%      ...        at       ...          es         4.       22      10.00
SPAIN             ?4   3S.86 2,9901i        2.40   19.2A    499  221  ISY    94A    11SXV              ...        ISA      ...          ...       laity    so       17.6ey
AFRICA
SiLSE0116         79   16.51  1,260         7.1    24.7?    34.c  26K   ZIK    SS14    94xK            4SK?       37%       4.OK        Sig?      33K?    37K        S.00ax
GEPIEM            711   1. lifi   1806      T.I"   36. 1) y    47D   230   100    IID        44XT      7`08       Sly      2S.Od        436        Itif    jqd       0.701
GOTSISAMA         is    o.&       620       5.4    19.0       49    39    13        3s      so         70         31        9.4)        so        20        la       I.So
BURUNDI           To    4.1       t3o"      2.7    22.IR    4611'  33R   atil   as           aix       4s         32        9.0         22          3w      16       O.S
cancomil          76    7.7       514       3.7    21.5        33    43    20       ...      60        4%         Si       4.0          20          go      at       0.90ev
C.A.R.            74    1.8f    22OF        3.00   tT.OD    Sag   Lou   ...    ...           79xy      2s         eqy      ...          la          aly    276T    0.21Y
COO&O             7s    A..)    120         3.0    10.0       16    IN   ...        Is       aqxsy    3 0         6581    is.*           a          2w8Y   30        0.0tev
CONW(it)          74    I.'w      slop      6.0    19.3       40    32    at       507    133X         63         63        6.0         46         33x      22       1.44
EGYPT             73   3s.?       400       S.S      ...       30    is    ab      446       73        so         307       ...         82        00        IT?      IS.06
KTHIOPIA          77  29.0        too       2.4    ta.5        94    31    L4       to       26        ...        so        ...         bi          a       36       ...
OW N              74    Q.SF aliaef         S.00   10.60    2sit   90   Ito    ...    LOOT             25C        46C       5.0         194        3ty      aic      0.29T
"Potk             76    Q.S       170       1.3    ll.S       46    2s       6      to       27        90         33       ...          92        13        as        ...
gloollik          7.    4.40    S90F        ...    19.7Y    .3y  22Y  aovg   ...            DQKY       600        30Y      ...          148       "NY    16cy    1.09Y
GUINEA            76    4.7       15OF      4.INQ ...          30    It    30      ...       3ox       be        4s        12.OF         06         t3x      20       8.00
IVIDNT COAST    74.   7.0         bla       6.6    25.1       33    46    13         9A     so         46        43         7.0         47        tily    26         t.64T
neolvA            79   IS.1       3#0       S.*    16.0       71    is    14       4s       9a         74        40         .o         41        1.       20        1.0
LESOTWG           79    1.1       340       4.3041 20.01    41   20    20'    Sa            6.         It         4.        4.0         bs         Is       as       6.90
LIDERIA           77    I.?       #30       3.1    12.9       23    13    26       34        six       ...        54        4.0         la        24M       Lb       ...
MADAGASCAR        77    6.0       240       4.0    24.0       S3    26    19       so        00        33         44        ..0         34         14       23       1.70
"ALAwl            79    5.9       20t       2.2w    9.3m    40    23    23         as?       59        ITK        629       5.0"        IIK         4       10       8.31
"ALI              7s    S.7F       9OF      4.1*   33.OF    4SF   37F   IGF    14F           aixF      ...        48F      4.5F         SOF          x      at        ...
"UNTYANIA         71    I.JF    32OF        4.ty  2O.OY    ...  ...  ...    IOA              tlxv      ...        22A       ...         ...         3xY    24A       ...
MAVRITI03         7.    O.qL    680         S.?    12.1       so    afp      a     sac       94        99         24        4.5          90       4s        U        I.Se
mmocco            70   td.2       szo       6.3    1S.2        190   OaR   139    24         AIX       3S         39        6.00        40        itom     21        4.40
MISER             77    4.9       The       2.84   IR.29    12    43         S       a       L?        so         59       Is.*          3s         a      24        ...
mistals           74   75.0f    34OF        4.1DY 24.20Y   23f   16Y  42Y    ...             4oxy      ...        3401                  ...        lazy    aecy    0,46T
RWANDA            73    4.IF    loaf        3.2c   28'OD    ...  ...    ...    23            S2        ...        St                                2       13       *.Zxy
KNEGAL            77    S.a       4as       S.0    23.0        4.    34    24       to       sa        ...        49       10.0         20         10       II       1.5
StIONA1 LEUNt   73    j.QF    206F          3.4    IS.*        31    36    30      is?       34X       4s         32        4.0c        60         13Y      at       4.534V
SOMALIA           76    4.0       las       2.0    11.0       SS    10    21       so        44       ...         31        4.0         40          5       is       1.00
SUBAN             76   IS.9       290       4.5    tq.9        48    36    16      to        34        74         33        3.6         33         14       24        1.24
SWAZILAND         76    o.S       560       6.14   12.2        37    35    23      bs        92X       40         37        4.414       bfi        32v      go        2.4ax
?**IANIA          74   t7.1       230       ..on   SS.&        43    19    10      ber.    96,         al'        so        3.0          9          4       IOU    .0.36
TW                77    2.4       300       S.S    26.5        30    26    21       14       id        44         so        41.0        sa                  44       a.00
VU11131111        73    5.76    eo*G        6.3    23.4        37    43    to      SS        la        81         at        6.0         3i         to       II       3.00
UGANDA            75   11.6       23o       3.40T IS.70Y   34EY 'AOEY 22EY   ZSA             S3Xf      ...        34ey      ...         16A         61CY  21A        6.s6y
UIPOEII VOLTA    77    S.&        Its       3.4    23.9        3i    to    3a        SC      t3        23         St       24.0         19          a       as       1.0
ZAIRIE            76  is.6        140       6.0    22.0       C.    26    as        is       86X       44         4ax       2.0         41         t 51     27       t.acx
SANSIA            76    S.1       41641     6.4    1S.9       so    22    22        3-t      9711      so         40        7.4         at         It       13       I.SSS
CINT114t. A141ERICk Ald- TK CAMISOC4W
BANAPAS                                     I.,    19.1        36    36    It      43        go        1#7        24        4.0         97         ?9       It       ...
BARIAD133         76    0.2   1,620         8.t    22.L        43    31    to      eV       L06X       99         21        3.0         94        941       17       ...
eogrA *ICA        is    2.1    16411-       6..    33.0-    570   ITO   30         940       93        71         32        ...         77         3O.-   to        13.0611
CUSA              Ts    9.5   1,000         8.0    11.0    ...  ...  ...            ob       96        99         22        2.7         qa         69       Is      ts.00
9ftIPtICAN Witok.72    4.416    7906-    S.&    0.9            0Z    24    22       St       so        IT         S.        3.00        63         1.       IN       ?.to
IEL SALVIOOR    77    -1.1        570       4.0    27.2        64     a     27      62       aax       la         39        2.2         at         23       at       ?.*a
.UA7104ALA        73    0.2G    Toor        1.9    16.0        SS    23    %4       47       64        26         3s        3.0         6.          a       as       4.09V
malyl             76    4.7       200       t.0      8.0       61    21    It       208      2SF       is         sau       3.0         .2          4       ...       0.7
mftouoag          TS    2.106    4009       6.26   t&.69    *22   ISG   199    S3            is        30         3S        3.0         AG         ti       17       4.00
jAmAICA           76    t.1   1,074         *.q    16.2        37    33    22       S*E      91        SI         39        4's         94         64       as       7.54
matsco            TS   59.10  %,.Se,        3.106 12.001i  S-1 's' 26v   lav    76          itaxy      3 a                  3.0         63         35NI    a3h       6.479T
RIC&RAGWA         74    2.3G    7006        2.S    14.a        el    13    13       S?       65        21         37        2.4         93         17       j4       7.00
1114lik"A         To    1.1101 1.220        5.0    ...         42M   130   13       0114     ey        aal        3214      3.0         as"        46       34"    20.00
TRINIDAD 9 T. 77    I.,  2.1as              4.9    14.1       46    la    I*       qs        94        qt         30        3.6         49        ea        2.        ...
IOUT14 ANEVICA
AsormytNA         78   76.7' 1,910          6.4    11.4       434   319   laN    93          64        sa         L?        2.0         97         31        a      a3.60
aft lvls          7*    S..       3ISF      S.$    11.SF    ... ...    ...          "        San       2qO        24        sr          ...         as      too      ...
It it ZI L        is 116.114 1130OG         2. S"   12.4       a2  2oE   zim    64A         SaG       ...        27cy      ...         ...       J66       licv    O.006
CXTLE             75   10.3r. 1,05OG        3.axy 12.5RY   230   IQY  501    ...    IIQXY              ...        35Y       ...         ...        441Y    ...    16.SSY
COLOMBIA          74   0.3s    05OG         3.31SY 21.20Y  440Y 220Y IIY    73              losiv      at         33Y       4.0         go         36TY    14A       b.bly
gettkoot-         is    7.36    744'a-    3-.fe   al.7c    ...   ...   ...    "             5oaxv                 34C       ...         ...        3wf    14C       ...
60ANA             74    Q.11F    SIDF       5.6m   14.79    47    3s    is          03A      9ax                  33        6.0         19        62X       24       1.00
VA.'o is- 9-      14    1. tr.   &w.        t.9    11.0        SS    31    aa       at       1121      26         30        1.9         bs         17       la       S.*6
PZRU              7s   L6.0a    04or        4.201 21.7DY  40t  22Y   ISY    7a             itixv       341        390T      1.0         70        AORY    230Y    14.siv
Unusual           7s    g.ss $"TiG          2.S    IS.j       4b,   54    go       $4       93X        ...       a4         ...         43         ...      Is       ...
KNEZUELA          73  12.W  i,S4oG          4.6    19.9       304  aeG   350    ??A         St         ...       33         1.4         ...       33        ...    la.63cv



- 30-
ANNEX I
" age 2 of 2
YhURAR? 3. 19043
a           i*           3p 1101TCOG IC   401a8EsIFX     LOAE   RT  &RATIO OtOr 3  a  R4PER   :RELATION 1F         04tSR         aSOIPC   3RTI
780390us.z. cu*ssi  a637    i          e0.  Fv(y. sec. mt.sa033733   (13   3c10L((100(33    I CAPITA              (0       1 (1)   (ER    3 C11)  a
I                            r 7.      r                 I 1                I          I       I           I            I        0      3         3
3(15 Is  (25  I  (33    a  (95   3           IS)       I (8)    I (1)         ( I     I93     (13)    I (it]          3(12)   3(113  3(113   0
ASIA AND 00E46(6
AFAMN4605?8      770  34.3       To0%      1.0    11.6      87    19    is       12      890        69        31        3.oo         *j        at     17       1.31
85863..6@83       13  00.46       906      1.2    20.2    '4.t  227   814    030          568       ...       400       *.         ...        2300    26         .
INDIA            I5 648.46    3006          .00..            .    ..av9  *      298      tsxv       ...       elk       ...         .        2aor   20A1    2.34tY
1130WSt6        To 184.0        360      3.4      9.1      ZAgo  386   150    62        92        *6         32        3.0        To        19       17       2.00
In"6             73   83.66 a,0600         3.3    12.6      S0o   1S*   1go    s0        77         144       32        5.08       600       84       38       4.32C1
11116            75   00.86  0.3904       6.78   10.311t........    260                  9304       ...       22        ...        ...       35:7    260       0.#7y
JOlOAN           77    2.3      997        4.541   7.14    258  $0R    3R    70          970       SI         32        2.0        93        68       22      10.60
8068             To   31.0   1,2w?         2.8    t1.5       55    alp   369    93      102Z        94        *9        2.9        91        60       45      18.00
LIB36603          12    3.86  1.070G       3.5    10.0      39    44    10       60      St         As        39        8.0        63        26U      a5      83.00
66L.64Stl        76   18.4      040        6.4    26..)   4a    34    15         iolC     95        95        32        3.7        78        40       28       3.30
038163           60   03.3       110on    2.0      0.8      27    t0    38       394,    77         30        366       2.3Q       ...       Lb       2aK       .
mEan             ?a    0,84 2.3004         I.7Ir   3.0      96           -       20       800       99        27F       7.0        ...       0.08      9        .
PACIST68         75  71.36    1846         3.04    7.54    G5    as    To       21       413        50        39        2.0        ...       171      1s       6.00
SAlIJA 8i.0.     75    8.86    .546.       5.8    06.1      36    16    24       3a      5??        734       31       31.0        go        1207    28        0.90?
P6(3.P039E8    74  43.80    4206           2.5    j#.9      73    I5    la       97     1041        ...       34       15.0        ...       4.0      ...    23.00
su6aP9iRL        74    2,36 a.5003         2.79    4..2y    30o   ley   177    75*    10901         724       311       ...        4946      4411    24        7.007
84Q0A            75    ?.66    0300        3.6     6.9      39    a5    26      53       89        79         35        2.0        92        as       21      12.00
133433.44,       77   ".I~   6&0          4,8#*   20.6,    51    30    Is       64$      03        30         Ss        5.oU       To        28       as       3.00
73334(7          13  98.90  1,0106         5.601 20.bCT ...         ..    .....          aoy        ...       347       ...        ...       24o      8707    5.837
ffielm           73    5.14    3006       *.S      46.      IS    2lp   234    30        153       to6        36        5.0        7S         ax      19)      3.3581
91986m N.0.*.  76    1.7        200       6.6      ..07           2       8     80       090       00         30        5.0        94        210      24       0.10
80103A*8  FOR 0(6(E.04(63  COU6T01E5u
"up"*i or CO306N 01ES9                            93       91   99    as       la      100        78        99           74       tia       98       96        8t
=*86(A                                  (8.5-   (3.8-   (20. (6-   (l.    (5-         (13-      (13-      (16-        (3.5-    (0to.      (.4..   (6-        (.03-
32.0    1 6.03    96 3 1)  50)   903            13300    99         64        251.0 I  1003        97   3453    43.03
gU*A?Io.USIOWPIO  3           5~~~~.D,   21.2   44    Is    2a      87       98        93        42          4        9         46       as      10.0
'(01463             0~~~~~.2    10.0  42    28s   to      57       68        65        34                   be6        24       22       3,4
3.006(8 3           ~~~~~3.8    la.0  34    21    1i      as       56         33       29           a        411       I1       to       1.0
S?860jLg ... c*rw' 06M94(3.483.E                  4.1910 OR 9(4060e             64SC986IE   99(0(37 S003t
*AG%?h1749-?L63  .0 34669.30(81.1 8-4373                            3.604
S   U9S3TI3644LE                     C53972                        #.JtC60tN6(4   409100G  410                   3.03.43951t 460 2 -03LD SANK A1TL65
* hIMCl,Jo13 P4i.aT.IN  STojoEMhS 0.J173                           48lENTRAL 10VT. ONLY.                                             a. 0800 4t331.36,
.6 o0098(6o 4314 44(99461            E419107654 4   01031TROFEDC IO   (3903 ONLY0                                          I TO 10 0880 ML53(063
14, UN"*1  "*LW13                        4.0975                        303*08 AND STAT!I 0097. ONLY1                                     *60/08 UNESCO
01974b                        74(1CLU0194 CE4TQAL GOVJT.                                       3TA1473T104A
PM1977                        UMOUBL3IC ONLY                                                   48486004
401970                        V44(60.W0140 94(IV410 E104090(704
3406CL03.40( 7.9(64AG63 3TUDE673
Y09U3E130 SOURCES
CO6,6357040 !03u63r4u0  0*arA 4Q6 U40POL IN THE8 EVALUATION9 OF va0(000 1033c4r03%, 375703 AND Am&3.Y013 0F 9EL4T198  376053 Of 8OUCA(0U43L
0C48E.a13906  SCI-Ef% V6800U3 701JUTS*ES  ..O86j94019P 71,8 6A503 OF T743- *3E3SL0MT                003-4006   CtiP4401306 39903.U be A4PPRO0CHED .111
GREAT CAUf(06. 0414 44838E6ES110  (  19.3  A00V6  744LE.  .4VE 4t3-6 CULLECTID UA4463-3.  $3 T9.-E06 '31         33(129.3~S  QO 70 .OVEAft-ENT66  333406J33  Tw3-
8864A(6010  441 314FF E3T7(4T63 OR r(ira 44a09  Q683C0. EF44)36TS  AV.8  SEEN9 4403- to 37033440A 06Z  EF419aTIUNS 4993 .1T46  LIMITS  To  99106 THE
A6CU9fi6l9 OF 0,0 914A. NE-tRT9.-f.LfSVS,3Co. 376T4 441 STILL3  1'48440T  094 SEVERAL R803.80T0  *90  '8 A4---  13 .044(N6 T) 006 14                    839V T(
PROGRESSIVELY~ 06 43 T    300UCCA 9 04  315IT  OPER6010NA1. 4994. 19 THE8 3S01 OF THEE8 0404, THE FULL3U.09.G ;94JLIF1CArti76S 34033.0 43- 5UO46E (
(II3EO0CAT07 M33  A  OEFINED610  0  76-E T14.E 16CLUJE8  ALL3 EO03CATION A6O TRAINING3, 40R4AU43. 0  4906.9.049943;
LEVEL REGARDLESS3 UP TyPE 13.G. 3860E4AL.  13CR&ICAL.  A04103CULTU4AL) I
(3)'3.(TEO&01 q4E&8(C0L3..6 ARE 0473N 06t.EM80 #0404 3.036741 CE(89033. 09 .3946C3.33614135 743EY ARE 063.1 4040*GA394T1(f33 460 IT IS
803361FUL 7461 A64 360404WM 3141607006 04 -LITER-ATE.' "43 SEE-# FO03.3..13-  C0611313E4TLY1
C6S1,oa8LIC 3-xP(6o1TUR( IN. EDO3A4700(001L3.3,4 &60 S) 48F00 T0 A3.3 CAPITAL, 4140 RE10344861 EXE01T900998 01VO1E0 13O EDUCATION3 By
uOBLOC A60 Q'J431-'3U9LI AGIENCIESI
(93)1640OL3.3ET ijT611330L733 7. 12 46O  14) 43-$8O 1U 53.1441.3  3EA00 460 48A66 TOE0 PERCENra"0  0s ELIGIBLE. CHILDREN-9  ENROLLED.1  FULL3-71*
06 1mE AP4804914(E 3C4.UU3.  RUOLIC AND 44(9VA7E t0  LEVEL-.* THEY 443E 04709  33J64ECT 70 A  JE(3  .&*G(9 u9 E-4904 IN T46 03EVEL.14(G
C0U3618185 0.1366 tU VARI140014 (N T4E ACCURA4CY OF 0A3(3. 134T(0.. 4684098CIF0C 40433LA1(06  490 E-4043.3L4891). 64,033.39-NT FIGURES
I4880U16T3.1  6fE 914604Q T-AN. THE 9439-V OF STil0E%TS 407063.3.  (6  SC4003.~ 04190G-O STUD0ENTS .HOSE INCL.3UV6  1S 19.0(13ArE    ST. 
F439016011 63.30 CAN (64.Ar0 TH98 661003.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
DESCRIPTION OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
The Structure and Organization of Education
1.        The structure of the formal education system is shown in Chart 2.1.
It consists of seven years primary education followed by four years lower
secondary and two years upper secondary education to university entrance
level. Vocational and technical training programs are provided at various
levels.
2.        The administration of education and training was reorganized in
November 1979. A Ministry of Basic Education was created with responsibility
for pre-primary and primary education and for primary teacher training.
A new Ministry of Higher Education was given responsibility for secondary
and university education, the Polytechnics, and for the Harambee Institutes
of Technology. Responsibility for other vocational and technical training
programs, comprising the National Craft Training Center and the Industrial
Training Centers was consolidated under the Ministry of Labor. Also in 1979,
a new Department of Adult Education was created in the Ministry of Housing
and Social Services with particular responsibility for adult literacy programs.
Several other ministries operate pre-service and in-service training programs
in management and technical skills to meet government staff training needs.
The Teachers' Service Commission (TSC) continues to be the employer for
all primary, secondary and some post-secondary teachers in aided schools.
Primary Education
3.        Since independence and up to 1973, primary enrollments grew at
a rate of 8-9% p.a. However, as a consequence of the abolition of tuition
fees for Standards 1-4 in 1973, enrollment in one year increased by 50%,
reaching a total of about 2.7 million. From 1975 through 1978, enrollment
expansion kept pace with population growth. In 1979, however, following the
introduction of the milk distribution program, enrollments jumped by an
additional 15%, for a total enrollment of almost 3.7 million (Table 2.1).
4.        The national primary net enrollment ratio for the 6-12 age group,
from 1973 through 1979 has increased from 73% to 92%. The progressive
abolition of school fees (fees through Standard 7 were abolished by 1980)
has reduced regional disparities considerably with the exception that, in
four northern districts, the enrollment rate remained at less than 20% in
1979. The Gini coefficient for the distribution of enrollment across the
41 districts, is a relatively low 0.124. The national proportion of females
in total enrollment increased from 43% in 1973 to 47% in 1979, which is
considerably above average for this region of the world.
5.        Efforts are under way to revise the primary curriculum, adopted
in 1967, to make it more relevant to the needs of the 70% primary school
leavers who do not continue their formal education. Changes have recently
been introduced in the Certificate of Primary Education (CPE) examination to
discourage rote learning and increase the testing of intelligence and basic
skills.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
6.        The administration of the approximately 9,800 primary schools
is decentralized and although the construction and maintenance of schools
is largely a community self-help responsibility, about 60% of the budget of
the Ministry of Education is allocated to primary education (Table 2.2).
7.        The training of primary teachers is carried out in 17 Government
colleges. The pre-service teacher training courses last two years and for
unqualified teachers part-time in-service training of four-years duration
is available (about one-third of the teachers in post are still untrained).
The present total primary teacher training college enrollment of about 8,600
will increase to about 10,000 after completion of the Bank Group assisted
Third Education Project (Loan 1184 KE).
General Secondary Education
8.        In 1977 there were 440 Government-aided secondary schools with
a total enrollment of 128,000 compared to 1,042 unaided secondary schools,
mainly harambee day schools with poor facilities and little equipment, with
a total enrollment of 192,000. The majority of the latter offer only Forms I
and II leading to the Kenya Junior Secondary Examination (KJSE). The Govern-
ment maintains a program of gradually extending assistance to selected harambee
schools and reserving places in Form III and IV at Government schools for a
small number of their successful KJSE candidates. By 1978, 97 aided schools
had also added harambee streams. In 1978, 12,000 students were enrolled at
the upper secondary level (Forms V and VI).
9.        Although the proportion of girls in secondary schools has increased
rapidly, it still represents only about 40% of secondary enrollments. However,
the proportion of girls is much higher in unaided than in aided schools, e.g.
in 1977 in Form I, 50% of the students in unaided schools were girls, while
only 33% in aided schools were girls. In 1978, some 44% of the students
completing primary education in 1977 found places in Form I.
10.       Training for secondary teachers is provided at the Kenyatta Univer-
sity College (BA (Education) in Arts and Sciences, Domestic Science, Business
Education and Fine Arts: Non-graduate Diploma in Education), Kenya Science
Teachers College (Sl teachers in Science, Geography and Industrial Education),
Egerton College (Sl teachers in Vocational Agriculture) and the Kenya Technical
Teachers College (Secondary level technical teachers and instructors). Pre-
sently, 1,450 students are enrolled in BA courses and about 1,000 in "Sl"
courses. The output of Kenyan teachers is adequate, except in Mathematics,
Science and English.  Training for these categories is being increased and
the secondary teacher supply problem should be resolved if secondary school
enrollment is stabilized in the mid-eighties as planned.
Technical and Vocational Training
11.       Technical and vocational training is offered at various levels.
Prevocational education is offered in eleven technical secondary schools with
an enrollment of about 7,000, comprising 50% general secondary curriculum and



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
50% technical subject teaching. Of the more specifically vocational training
programs, the lowest level is provided by over 200 Craft Training Centers
(formerly Village Polytechnics) now operating under the Ministry of Labor. In
1978 about 20,000 CPE holders were under training in these Centers in a wide
variety of skill areas. The trend is towards more standardization of the
training program to enable the trainees to pass the grades III and II trade
tests. The Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) of the Ministry of Labor
also operates three Industrial Training Centers (Nairobi, Kisumu, Mombasa),
which train craftsmen in a three-year sandwich course program. Participants
in this course are generally selected and sponsored by industrial firms who
are entitled to reimbursement from the proceeds of the training levy to which
they contribute. In addition, the Industrial Training Centers offer a limited
number of special technician training programs. Furthermore, the DIT operates
the Government trade-testing program and in collaboration with the National
Industrial Training Council promotes apprenticeship training by employers.
Other vocational training programs are offered by two Christian Industrial
Training Centers, two Vocational Training Centers of the National Youth
Service and in institutions operated by various ministries to meet their own
staffing needs. In addition, ten Harambee Institutes of Technology, receiving
only small amounts of Government aid but substantial foreign assistance, were
operational in 1979 and provided craft training courses to about 800 trainees
at the post-Form IV level.
12.       Training at the technician level is offered mainly at the Nairobi
and Mombasa Polytechnics with a combined enrollment of 3,000 in 1978, with
most of the students being sponsored by employers. In the Government sector,
the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development, Health, Water Develop-
ment, and Transport and Communications, train their own technician-level
manpower. Finally, Nairobi University offers degree courses in Engineering.
A Kenya Technical Teachers College has been established for training technical
and vocational teachers and instructors at all levels.
Agricultural and Livestock Training
13.       The Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Nairobi, located at
Kabete, some 14 km north of Nairobi, enrolls at present over 370 students in
various BS programs and about 170 students in post-graduate courses. When the
facilities provided under the Bank Group assisted Fourth Education Project
(Credit 797-KE) are completed, the capacity will increase to about 700 student
places. The Faculty of Veterinary Science of the University of Nairobi which
previously catered mainly for other African countries, enrolls at present only
Kenyans (about 85 students). At the diploma level, training is provided at
Egerton College with a present enrollment of about 800 students in various
courses, including 160 female students and about 75 students being trained as
secondary agricultural teachers. The College has plans to double its capacity.
At the certificate level, two-year courses are provided at two Agricultural
Institutes (Embu and Bukura) which are currently being expanded from a capacity
of 250 to 400 each with assistance from the Fourth Education Project. This
project will also provide a second Animal Health and Industry Training
Institute (AHITI) similar to the existing AHITI which offers certificate



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
training to 250 students. These institutes carry the major responsibility
for training students who will form the cadre of the extension agents of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development. Specialized training is
also provided at the Naivasha Dairy Training Center and at the Athi River Meat
Training Center. The Jomo Kenyatta Institute of Agriculture and Technology is
currently under construction with bilateral assistance.
14.       Farmer training takes place in three types of residential training
centers:  (a) two large-scale Farmer Training Centers (FTCs), with a combined
capacity for about 160 participants, offering courses of varying length and
content; (b) 30 small-scale Farmer Training Centers offering one-week general
courses to small farmers, both men and women; (c) two District Development
Centers which are a pilot attempt to broaden the scope of the traditional FTC
and which offer multidisciplinary courses for the benefit of the whole rural
community. Training to farmers is also provided through the extension
services, and young farmers are trained in 4K and Young Farmers Clubs, and
in Craft Training Centers.
University Education
15.       There is a single university, the University of Nairobi.  The
Faculty of Agriculture and the Faculty of Education (Kenyatta University
College) are located separately from the main campus. Total enrollment in
1978/79 was about 7,150 students. Undergraduate courses are available in
Agriculture, Architecture, Arts, Commerce, Education, Engineering, Law,
Medicine, Science, Veterinary Medicine and Home Economics. Post-graduate
courses have been or are being established for most subjects. Staffing
is satisfactory, although many teaching positions in science and related
subjects are held by expatriates.
Training in Public Administration and Management
16.       The Directorate of Personnel Management in the Office of the
President is responsible for providing in-service training for Government
personnel at the Mombasa and Maseno Government Training Institutes and at
the Kenya Institute of Administration (KIA) which provides a wide range of
courses for senior as well as lower-level civil servants. The Directorate
also operates two Government Secretarial Colleges. In addition, the Kenya
Polytechnic offers one- and two-year courses in management and business
administration, respectively and the Kenya Institute of Management (KIM)
offers short courses for middle-level managers.
Other Youth and Adult Training Programs
17.       The National Youth Service, organized under the President-s Office,
provides training combined with implementation of development projects,
particularly in road construction and agriculture. The average length of
the program is 2.5 years and the annual intake is about 1,000. Between 60%
and 70% of the trainees are reported to find employment with Government or
industry.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
18.       The Ministry of Health is responsible for training programs related
to family planning and nutrition and the Ministry of Housing and Social
Services for a variety of adult education and community development programs,
including the adult literacy program and special training for women. The
Institute of Adult Education of the University of Nairobi provides academic
adult education and many private organizations provide practical training
at various levels.
Special Support Services for Education
19.       The School Broadcasting Service provides programs mainly addressed
to the upgrading of teachers. In connection with the forthcoming multi-media
Center under the Bank Group assisted Third Education Project, teacher upgrading
programs will be strengthened with an orientation toward improvement of the
pedagogical abilities of the participants. The Center will also provide
audio-visual services to formal and non-formal education.
20.       The Kenya Institute of Education (KIE) and the Jomo Kenyatta
Foundation (JKF) are two important service institutions to education. The
main tasks of KIE are to promote the in-service training of teachers and
other education personnel, to assist in examination preparation and analysis,
and most importantly, to undertake curriculum research and development. KIE
has embarked on the development of a new primary curriculum with assistance
from the Fourth Education Project. The JKF is responsible for the publication
and distribution (through the Kenya School Equipment Scheme) of textbooks
and other teaching and learning aids developed and prepared by the KIE.
21.       The Kenya School Equipment Scheme provides the primary level with
teaching and learning aids produced by the KIE and the JKF through a system
of centralized depots. A central warehouse is located in Nairobi and a
transport fleet (built up under the Third Education Project) assists in the
distribution of materials. Efforts are being made to reduce inequities in
distribution. The Science Equipment Production Unit (SEPU) produces science
kits, including student and teacher manuals, mainly for secondary schools,
but also has plans to produce kits for primary schools.
Female Participation and Regional Distribution
22.       The Government of Kenya through a concerted effort has succeeded
in rapidly increasing the participation of women in education. Female enroll-
ments in primary-education represent 47% of the total, in secondary over 40%
of the total, and in post-secondary and higher-education 30-35% of the total.
Based upon a continuation of prevailing Government policies further gains in
female participation are expected.
23.       While Kenya has devoted a large share of Government expenditures
to expanding the education system and, as indicated above, has made substan-
tial progress in incorporating the female population into the system, pockets
of regional disparities remain. In keeping with overall economic philosophy,



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
national economic growth has been viewed as the ultimate equalizer of educa-
tional opportunities and little or no attempt has been made to compensate the
less affluent communities for their inability to carry out educational programs
which other communities can afford. While the efforts to provide free and
universal primary education should tend to reduce these geographical imbalances,
much remains to be done in order to ultimately eliminate regional inequities.



STRUCTURE OF FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, 1980
Kenya and Mombasa Polytechnics
Secondary Technical Education
Harambee Institutes
o fTechnology
Pre-Craft EACE.
(Tech.)                               Industrial Training Centers
1       2       3  Government Training Schools
X s                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Private Industrial Schools
FarsMedical Training Center
PrimarE Education
1                                     _4CPE                                                Diploma in Agriculture/Animal Health
Fa{N rmer TraininCeters                                              CrftTrinn                                   Certificate in Agriculture
l CeTnters                                                                                                       Sin
EACE  East African Certificate of Education                                                                                           1~~~~~~~~Fist  egeePrgrms Unvesiy  f  aiob
.   ~    ~~~~~~~~~Agriculture, Architecture, Law,
General Secondary Education        EACE                                                       Education
4 <S E EA} sC E _ K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Diploma in Education
. l                            _       -       E         q        3   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medicine, Surgery,
CPE          -  Certificate of Primary Education                                   _ Primary Teacher                 r                         Secndary Teachr 
KJSE         -  Kenya Junior Secondary Examination                                     Training                       ,P&2Training                                      isl1
EACE         -  East African Certificate of Education (ena                                                                                                                     i                            P5: 
EACE (Tech.) -  East African Certificate of Education (Technical)                                                 r_      r_                                                                                       v
EAACE        -  East African Advanced Certificate of Education                                                                                                                 i
P1,P2         -  Primary Teacher Training                                                                                                                                                                      ft
Si            - Secondary Teacher Training (non-graduate)                                                                           ,.._                                                                        l
World Bank -218H39
World Bank -21839



KgNYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECG
ENROLLMENTS BY GRADE IN PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION 1967-1979
Grade           1967        1968        1969        1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976         1977        1978        19791-
Primary Education
Standard 1         228,769    250,757    253,298    296,459    306,896    357,366    379,370    958,940    668,166    571,872               602,076    599,057    977,592
Standard 2         183,634    207,755    224,645    241,458    261,660    279,696    316,936    437,375    722,333    545,406               489,222    479,337    579,511
Standard 3         165,640    178,537    197,669    221,235    230,998    256,870    274,081    360,386    419,638    597,690               512,296    455,206    507,807
Standard 4         146,912    158,899    171,573    191,901    207,711    220,994    244,324    301,884    341,927    382,735               510,825    466,977    483,044
Standard 5         123,832    132,701    142,680    158,082    177,547    192,329    206,558    233,003    264,650    300,670               338,509    433,711    450,774
Standard 6         136,848    134,247    141,785    154,603    167,536    185,424    199,873    223,260    237,002    253,030               281,386    302,093    417,290
Standard 7         147,544    146,784    150,647    163,851    173,150    183,240    194,875    219,550    227,439    243,214               236,925    258,610    281,568
Total Primary   1,133,1.79  1,209,680    282,297  1,427,589  1,525,498  1,675,919  1,816,017  2,734,398  2,881,155  2i894.617   2.971 239  2,994,991  3,697.586  u
Boys           689,795    725,030    762,827    836,307    881,007    956,620  1,025,113  1,507,255  1,561,501  1,554,124   1,584,859  1,593,335  1,953,042
Girls          443,384    484,630    519,470    591,282    644,491    719,299    790,904  1,227,143  1,319,654  1,340,493   1,386,380  1,401,656  1,744,544
Secondary Education  2/
Form I              31,805      35,624      39,836      41,043      46,246      53,480      58,693      64,746      73,690      94,834      106,414    104,654    107,227
Form II             26,592      28,467      33,824      37,339      37,423      43,878      46,782      54,046      62,585      75,318       89,892    109,585        96,252
9nrm III            16,880      19,547      20,637      24,540      28,378      30,993      34,021      37,712      54,652      54,788       60,695      75,216       88,634
Form IV             10,756      14,565      17,279      19,317      23,103      26,869      28,094      31,741      35,970      45,617       52,568      60,256       70,475
Form V               1,622       1,769       2,068       2,606       3,014       3,688       3,596       4,135       4,792       5,208        5,239       6,380        8,568
Form VI              1,124       1,389       1,602       2,010       2,558       3,002       3,581       3,452       4,146       4,623        5,174       5,531        7,154
Total Secondary    88,779    101,361    115,246    126,855    140,722    161,910    174,767    195,832    226,835    280,388                319,982    361,622    378,310
Boys            66,392      75,202      83,086      89,327      97,979    111,295    117,224    128,721    145,306    176,723           197,226    216,895    223,463
Girls           22,387      26,159      32,160      37,528      42,743      50,615      57,543      67,111      81,529    103,665       122,756    144,727    154,847
1/ Preliminary.                                                                                                        v                                                X  ml
2/ Includes unaided schools.
Source: Ministry of Education, Central Bureau of Statistics.



KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION EXPENDITURE, 1974/75-1979/80
(in thousand K)
1975/75       1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79   1979/80 1/
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE--
General Administration and Planning.   1,942,766    2,373.5    3,303.4    3,977.8    4,428.7    4,809.4
Primary Education .33,911,783   45,526.2   46,595.1   55,421.6   59,740.1   73,843.5
Secondary Education  ..  .8,296,215    9,523.3    9,934.2   11,455.0   13,003.4   13,866.4
Technical Education .900,682                              793.1       845.7    1,036.6    1,093.9    1,234.1
Teachers' Training .1,717,054    2,214.7    2,557.4    3,027.7    3,239.6    3,539.2
Special Schools .211,175                                 249.8       295.9        358.9       392.1       439.8
Polytechnic Education .752,373                            842.6       974.5    1,285.8    1,542.0    1,731.1
Higher Education 2/ .7,041,898    6,491.0    8,285.3    8,929.4   11,587.8   12,354.3
Miscellaneous .509,224                                    572.4       687.2       932.4    1,337.7    1,364.5
Total .55,283,170   68,586.6   73,478.7   86,425.2   96,365.3  113,182.3
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE--
General Administration and Planning.        18,624          8.6        44.4       152.2       128.3       442.5
Primary Education .34,328    82.5   106.3   308.2   129.1   460.5
Secondary Education .2,776,893    1,016.0    1,101.2                              916.1    1,127.5        960.9
Technical Education .112,405                              682.6       777.5       639.5       205.7       800.0
Teachers' Training .233,597                               137.1        359.7   2,002.9        548.9       191.1
Special Education .441,722    48.9                                      60.0   55.0    87.5    80.0
Polytechnic Education .212,921                           167.6         156.9      728.5    2,278.8    3,643.7
Higher Education .395,899   194.2    305.5   251.1   570.2   981.1
Miscellaneous .165,770                                     65.4         63.7       47.1        22.6       180.0
Total .4,392,159    2402.8100.6   5,098.7    5,098.7    7,739.8
-  _                                                       '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D X
1/ Preliminary estimates.  Ministries of Basic and Higher Education.
2/ Includes expenditure ofi University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University College and other institutions of higher
education not specified above.
Source:  Economic Surveys, Central Bureau of Statistics.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Table 3.1
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES IN EDUCATION
(million KE)
Fiscal Year             Recurrent                     Development                     Total
KE           Share in        K           Share in         Share in total  Share in
(million)  total recurrent  (million)  total development expenditure (%)  GDP (%)
expenditure (%)                expenditure (%)
1974/75        58.5           28.0            5.3           5.7                21.2           5.8
1975/76         68.9          27.7             3.3           2.7               19.4           5.5
1976/77         76.2          26.6            4.6           3.7                19.7           4.9
1977/78        89.1           22.1            5.4           2.9                16.0           4.8
1978/79       101.5           21.6             7.4          3.4                15.8           5.0
1979/80.1/    123.0           23.4           16.2            6.5               18.0           5.9
1/ Preliminary estimate.
Source: Economic Survey, Central Bureau of Statistics.



KENIA
FIFTH  MJWATION P2WJC'0
S1UMMARY OF ESTIMATED POdJECT COSTE         /
IN KENYA SHILLINGS (00D') AND US D0      SOOo' )
(0S$l  -  KSH. 7.574'
Cross                                                               Coon                                Cio-----_-___   __IVIL  WRlS------------------------------ll Works
student Places        Wrea  of    Site                              Staff                Civil                               'ur. &                     Te-h.i-lI   Prof.         rn-Service   rojeco       ProJct Total
No.                  Project Stem                 kxeist.   Neso   Total    Coont.    Deelop.,    A & C        oar-diog   Ho-ig   TCotl    W-rks         -orl-tore -  EqAip-ent   Eq ip e.t        Studies   AWsistance   Servi-es  Tra-ning    Ad..           KSh,         t070
I     AenyA Education Staff Institute              _       _       -           600       210       1,30O        -          -         1,300    2.070         225           400       3.131            _          1,135          120    10,050        6,050    20,550        2,713
2.    University of Kenya - Faculty of            690     165    855        7,17-      3,160       7,580       7,080      6.380    21,040   24.200        2.500        3.150       293,50            -         15,850        ,320       -            -       50,620       6,683
3.    Comvt Agrio-lt.r.   Institute                       4 800    400      73,369     9,630      13,370      11,310    13.310    38,520   49,150         4 200        9,000 o     61,30             _         21,360       10.590       _            -       93,300      12,318
4.    Water  .esonr s.  Training Institute         _      800    400        14,920    10,670      13,090      10,9'10    !3,610    42,030   S3.350        4,960         o.000      66.310            -         11,590       11,740                            5 _  89,640  11,835
5.    M_ba-m Industrial Tra-inig Centr-           150      90    240         3,111     1,350       4,800       3,080      1,010     9.0S0   '0,00           685           -          1.0'S5                                  2,290       _            _       13,365       1,765
6.    Ki-umo Ind-strial Trnioiog Centre  1/ 120           180    300         3,640     1,790       4,650       7,260       -       11,910   13.700        1,000           -        14,700            -           -           3.010       -            _       17.710       2,5335
7.    Pe-'Inve=atme   SnoWy                        -        -      -           -          -                     -          --                    ----1.135                                                                                 -                   1,135          150 m
8     Prjen ,Ainist-nti               S               _  _    _    _                                                                                                      455          455           -          3.067          -         -          7.119    10,641        1,405
B-as  OWL (J.,&y W~I)    ta K04.                                     4    2,8i0    26,07Wo    45.290    39,870    39,54o   125,000  151.870        13,580       21,505      198,335          1,135      52.4602       33,070    10,050       13,169   296,961
In us$                                             3,5488      5980        5,264      5,260    16,504   20,052        1,790        2,840       24.682            150       6.945       43366        1,327       1,738                 39,208
Contingni
(a)  Physical            Iv 105k.                                   -                                                           in KSh,  15.200   69o        1,06o       16,950 g                     -              -          -           _       16,950
in u-$                                                                                                    2,007          91          180        2.235                                    -                  -                          2,238
(b)  Prir Inrease        i  KS.                                                                                                    72.10        4,420        5,310 7     32.540                    15,50                      2.235       2,700   102,625
in us$                                                                                                    9,541~        5384         767       10.398                      2.000           -295                   356                 13,549
Sub-Total                     in KSh.                                                                                                   17, 510     5,140        6,0'o       99,490            -        15,150           _        2,235       2,700   119,575
In 1119                                                                                                  II1,;54        605          907       13.136            -         2.000           -295                   356                 15, "7
ProJ-ot Total                 in SOh.                                                                                                 339,3890     I3,670       28.373      086,405          4.135      67,7502       33,070    4,3          15,09   416,536
in uSh                                                                                                   31,606       2,8465       3,747       37,813            130       8,985         8.366      1,622       2.o94                 54,995
j In-loding -usto. duties and t-sses.
The figures in the first three COI-a relate to boarding plas... The respective figoren in terns of training plcen ore 228, 96 and 324.



KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
KSh. (Million)                     US$ (Million)                % of Total
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign       Total      tsase Cost
1. Civil Works
(a)  Site Development                       18.81        8.06        26.87       2.49        1.06         3.55          9%
(b)  Academic and Communal                  31.70      13.59         45.29       4.19        1.79         5.98         15%
(c)  Boarding                               27.91      11.96         39.87       3.68        1.58         5.26         13%
(d)  Staff Housing                          27.89       11.95        39.84       3.68        1.58         5.26         13%
Sub-Total                             106.31      45.56       151.87       14.04        6.01       20.05
2.  Furniture                                     8.14       5.42        13.56        1.07        0.72        1.79           5%
3.  Equipment and Vehicles                        2.15      19.35        21.50       0.28         2.55        2.83           8%       1
4.  Studies and Technical Assistance             10.75      43.02        53.74        1.42        5.68        7.10          18%
5.  Professional Services (AIE)                  13.23      19.84        33.07        1.75        2.62        4.37          11%
6.  In-Service Training                           7.04       3.01        10.05        0.93        0.40        1.33           3%
7.  Project Administration (PIU & KESI)           9.22       3.95        13.17       1.22         0.52        1.74           5%
Base Cost (Jan. 15. 1981)                   156.84    140.15        296.99      20.71       18.50        39.21        100%
Total (1-7)
8. Contingencies
(a)  Physical Increases (6%)                11.12       5.83         16.95       1.47        0.77         2.24
(b)  Price Increases (33%)                  59.15       43.47       102.62       7.81        5.74        13.55                H
z
Sub-Total 8                            70.27      49.30       119.57        9.28        6.51       15.79
Project Cost 1/                       227.11    189.45         416.56      29.99       25.01        55.00                  H
1/ Includes custom duties and/or taxes estimated at U8$1.8 million equivalent.



4         4
C.     - 4''44'14OH              4.  0    4'          14    .-                                 4'                                  -
5               .4,,          .4o4'04144      1lj4 ,444.440
44        4.44  444. 41441   4  '4
.4    ,  '   ,     44'4  4444 44                        4            44 4.404 C '444.4444.    4.4440    44.444
4          '-4      4.  4.             4..  44    4.44    4.4<  4.4*    I'.'
4    4    44 - 4- 4  44,4.4   '4''4-'4              4''.'l'4  F'      40H140..404144000,.,  '4l-1414411144  41
4 4' o '4                  '4  44  44   4            44', '4.              4 4.4.444  .44.4044   . 4.4444   .44.44444  .44.444*
4' 4''                             44  4 4.   k                          *44.4.44414   44'4404.4  4444
 4.    4                                '444444' 444444040444
'4.4.             4444.144  44   '440   444444  g'4     a
                                          44   4.444.                      8            44.8.44.4.4   44'4' 44'444'4'4 44.444.4.4.
14        44'4                                      "
I                                                                                       4
4.4   04  "'82  '8'8r               4.              4' 4.4.4.4  '4  '4'4  4'          4'' 4444 04  4'  .44    4.4  43 4444  044.4004  4'404444  4'4044
o    4....                             414        04'4  4444                              4  4144     44444           a        
I                                     "''4  444. .44'44.44414.4.144.4(4.144'4          4
4445                         ''4   41                                         4 4.4  .1H'4  444..I  4114.44.444.4444.   44.0    4
44   44444.44    .-..O               4*44' 4'l                 4 4  44   '4 4 444
'4      -4.4                           44.  .44'-        4.444          .-                  '41444             44    44444   421
4' '4 4 4                    4.  44. $                .4 4      0             .44.44r4I4        .44  4.                         '4
o                             0   '-'4 '44.4 '14'..                                        4.4.   4444.   4.44.8    4
4                             .1 4C  0'.  4 2            4 .'.,  4  4 44.4  4 4. 4.4.4    4         4
'4'444                                4. 4       .4
-                                   '4      4               .4          .4   ,-        1'          44
I'         '-.                      "4            '4
.44    0    .3  44    -4     .4   8'  o   ,,            .                            4    4  4   4    4  4   4    4  414  4
4           441    4   1       4'4l1'4                   44
4                                                  4  '4      4   '4      -'
41             '4                                   .            .'        V                   8
a                  '4
4           2
4          4        1    4
4.   .      4.      i4.              41     '4
-4                                                                                                              III.
1441440 '408'8                                                                                                                   mu
1                                                                                                                       4.
0    0    '44   0  14   14   0    0
4'   -4  4.'   44  4'                             0     4.
'888
'-''48                     '8   14                                        1-  ____                                                 ___
84.4.                                  '4'  "    '8
4400 '44 '3,0000                                                                                                                    ___ 1;  a
0 0           __________________________________________                                                                            18144
00            '..  '-'  04.   0
4. H    144  ________                         4'  '4'4'4                   IlIji                            111111111
1
14   0                                                                               __   __                             ____ ___                     8
H H 0    HO                           '4 '8'  '4                          izlz _  zzzzizz                                                            '4
4..    -4  .  0  0  ..'                           14 41  4.'
'88' 0144'014                          14         04'   0
-     14  '4'
____ _______                                                                                      __                      ___I   -Iii-
'4   0  "   '4   a  o        8                      4
'4                             14  14                          6        -   ___ .-                 .L_____ I            -
'44.4  014    .4   0  '4                     8'   '4   '4
4.14  .41  --44'   '4        5          14                                                                             9                     44
---.4---- _____ i                                   44
*                        4.
'4    44           '8                         '8'                                  a                                   9                     '4
_______________  ___________________________  I ________________________________________________
I                    -
4.                              14  14-                         -                      a                                 4.
0   0    4'  '4   0.   0                 14  -8'    0    044
14      4.                                                                                       _______  _______ 9 _____________
1-'                                                                           I
4.                            -'1            t
H     44    44
__ ____ _______ ____ __ 1' ______ 14
'41  -      '4
____ _______    '4 " '4    _______ 1 ___ ___________
0'84'410'8    14                        44           0    44
14    '8   0  '44                 '4          0     14
'8     '8



ANNEX !II
- 44 -                         Table 3.5
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(million US$)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarters 1/       Disbursements          Disbursements           Balance
1                 0.40 2/                 0.40                 39.60
2                   -                     0.40                 39.60
3                 0.70                    1.10                 38.90
4                 1.20                    2.30                 37.70
5                 1.50                    3.80                 36.20
6                 1.90                    5.70                 34.30
7                 5.70                   11.40                28.60
8                 5.00                   16.40                23.60
9                 4.30                   20.70                19.30
10                 4.10                   24.80                 15.20
11                 3.20                   28.00                12.00
12                 2.20                   30.20                  9.80
13                 1.90                   32.10                 7.90
14                1.50                   33.60                  6.40
15                 1.20                   34.80                 5.20
16                0.90                   35.70                  4.30
17                1.70                   37.40                  2.60
18                0.90                   38.30                  1.70
19                 0.70                  39.00                  1.05
20                1.05                   40.05
1/  From date of credit effectiveness.
2/  Includes PPF funds.
3/  Equivalent to SDR 31,400,000.



-45-
ANNEX IV
KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
A.1 Education Sector Memorandum, June 1980
A.2 Agriculture Manpower Survey, March 1978
A.3 Civil Service Manpower Requirements, 1980
A.4 Sessional Paper No. 4, 1980
B. Reports Related to the Project
B.1 Fifth IDA Education Project, Government Project Submission,
October 1979
B.2 Coast Agricultural Institute, Feasibility Study, March 1980
B.3 Water Resources Training Institute, Feasibility Study, March 1980
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Educational, Architectural and Financial Working Papers






r SUDAN   -  /                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~r     Hi P  
LJ G A eW,           A                             t PCIIA
'tA
N_ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~            
1-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ I
K   ~~~~~  CA ~~~~~~~A               N~~~ N S 1// N
C                                              /    -        I t                       //C 'AI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      /~~~~~~~~1 I~
4  E        Nf-      EA TE                           N    <            /
Tf.         -                                I~~~~~~~~~~    5)       IDM         -
Ed-  I        --        E
55  A  I A                           oW       R
A 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



