FILE COpy
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2959-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
February 18, 1981
This document hb a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborlntlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.0       - US$0.132
US$1.0        - KSh 7.574
Ki 1.0        - US$2.690
US$1.0        - SDR 0.784064
MEASURES
1 meter (m)      2    - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )   - 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)      = 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)        - 2.472 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
DANIDA   -   Danish International Development Agency
DIT      -   Directorate of Industrial Training
FDP      -   Fourth Development Plan, 1979-1983
FTCs     -   Farmer Training Centers
ITCs     -   Industrial Training Centers
KESI     -   Kenya Education Staff Itstitute
KIA      -   Kenya Institute of Administration
KIE      -   Kenya Institute of Education
KITC     -   Kisumu Industrial Training Center
KWRTI    -   Kenya Water Resources Training Institute
-EPD     -   Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MITC     -   Mombasa Industrial Training Center
MOBE     -   Ministry of Basic Education
MDHE     -   Ministry of Higher Education
MOW      -   Ministry of Works
MWD      -   Ministry of Water Development
NCEOP    -   National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies
AIDED SCHOOLS   - Primary and/or secondary schools receiving financial
assistance (mainly teacher salaries) from Government.
UNAIDED SCHOOLS - Self-help (Harambee) and private primary and/or secondary
schools with limited or no Government assistance.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:      Republic of Kenya.
AMOUNT:        SDR 31.4 million (US$40.0 million) equivalent
TERMS:          Standard IDA terms.
PROJECT        The proposed project would, over a five year period, assist
DESCRIPTION:  Kenya in the training of primary and secondary schools
management staff, and of the middle- and higher-level technical
manpower required, particularly in the public sector, to
carry out specific programs and projects, mainly in agriculture
and water resources development. It would also assist in
meeting the training needs of skilled workers in :Lndustries,
and in the identification of the needs for business education
in Kenya and possible development of programs to meet such
needs.
No major risks are envisaged. However, certain lessons learned
from past experience are addressed in the proposed project.
The project design is expected to help avoid a shortage of
qualified teaching staff for the project institutions (through
inclusion in the project of necessary specialist services
and fellowships), minimize implementation delays (through
strengthening the Project Implementation Unit, PIU), and
ensure appropriate coordination between the PIU and the
ministries involved in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



---------- US$ Million --------
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:
Foreign         Local         Total
Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment, and Vehicles
Kenya Education Staff Institute                0.2              0.2           0.4
Faculty of Agriculture                         1.5              2.5           4.0
Coast Agricultural Institute                   3.2              4.9           8.1
Water Resources Training Institute             3.3              5.4           8.7
Mombasa Industrial Training Ctr. 1/            0.5              1.0           1.5
Kisumu Industrial Training Ctr. 1/             0.6              1.3           1.9
Sub-total                                    9.3            15.3          24.6
Studies and Technical Assistance               5.7             1.4            7.1
Professional Services  2/                      2.6              1.8           4.4
In-Service  Training                           2.4             0.9            1.3
Project Administration                         0.6              1.2           1.8
BASE COST                                   18td ir o.6       2           39.2
Physical Contingencies                         0.8              1.5           2.3
Price Contingencies                            5.7              7.8          13.5
Sub-total                                    6.5             9.3          15.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          25.1            29.9          55.0
Taxes and Duties                            2                1.8            1.8
Project Cost Net of Taxes and
Duties                                    25.1            28.1          53.2
…-…U------- US$ Million ------…-----
FINANCING PLAN:
Foreign          Local         Total
Association                                   25.1              14.9          40.0
Government                                      -               13.2          13.2
Total Excluding Taxes, Duties                 25.1              28.1          53.2
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:
FY                           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985        1986
(US$ million equivalent)
Annual                        0.4      5.3    19.1      8.8      4.7       1.7
Cumulative                    0.4      5.7    24.8    33.6    38.3       40.0
APPRAISAL REPORTS:  Report No. 3167-KE dated February 12, 1981.
MAP: IBRD No. 15170.
1/   In one of the project components, the expansion of the Kisumu and
Mombasa Industrial Training Centers, the Danish International Development
Association (DANIDA) will provide all technical assistance and equipment
needed. DANIDA's contribution has been tentatively estimated at about
US$1.6 million equivalent, and as this contribution would be part of the
agency's broader ongoing program, its cost has not been included in the
proposed project.
2/   Cost of services of engineers and architects.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Kenya of SDR 31.4 million (US$40.0 milLion) equiva-
lent, on standard terms, to assist in the training of primary and secondary
schools' management staff and of the middle- and higher-level technical
manpower required, particularly in the public sector, to carry out specific
programs and projects in various fields, to assist in training slkilled
workers for the industrial sector and for a study to identify the needs and
availability of business education and training in the country.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya
is now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.         Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organi-
zational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with signifi-
cant government participation and guidance. It is clear that the country has
made a smooth transition to new leadership following President Kenyatta-s
death in 1978, and that the future will see continuity in both the political
and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide additional confirma-
tion of this.
4.         Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was



- 2 -
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per capita in
1979 was US$380. Agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP in 1975-79
and 56% of export earnings in 1979. Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. But despite the substantial economic progress the country has
made, Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-employment.
For example, it is estimated that about one-fourth of the population have
incomes which place them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
the result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards, which in
turn has led to a steady decline in mortality and a rapid increase in the
country-s fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to  2
mount on Kgnya s limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area, 583,000 km
520,500 km is categorized as potentially agricultural; however, only 13%
can be regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential.
Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential, and much of
it is now densely settled. Because of traditional ethnic landholding patterns
some higher potential land is not fully utilized. Mounting pressure on land
is resulting in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high potential
areas, and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. The
latter also poses a serious threat of environmental degradation.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the
total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb
all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income will be impeded by the
relative lack of access to land and education for the children of the poorest
section of the population.
9.        A second major problem area has developed in the manufacturing
sector. The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon
investments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.
To a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African



- 3 -
Community (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increas:Lngly dependent
on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and therefore vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GD]?. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has grown slowly. In 1979,
export volume was 4% below the 1975 level. To some extent this is a
reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also
an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-oriented
activities.
Economic Performance 1974-79
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, t'he growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
when coffee prices began to decline toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76. However, throughout this period there were increasing
pressures on the Government to expand its expenditures, emanating primarily
from increased school enrollments and abolition of fees for the first four
years of education; concerns about national security; and the need to replace
East African Community (EAC) Corporations with national entities. With the
"coffee boom" of 1976-77, the Government decided to greatly expand budgetary
outlays, both recurrent and capital. Thus, the budget deficit rose from
less than 5% of GDP in 1976/77 to about 7% in 1978/79. At the same time, the
monetary authorities did little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange
reserves on commercial bank liquidity and expansion of credit to the private
sector. As a result, domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977
and 1978. The combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and
the high agricultural incomes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a
rapid rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977, coffee prices had
passed their peak and begun to decline; the trade deficit rose sharply in
1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance on
current account deteriorated from an exceptional surplus of US$58 million in
1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978, while reserves fell by



US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion of the country s
foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a program of import
restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in imports and reductions
in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in 1979. This, together
with increased external borrowing, resulted in an increase of about US$179
million in gross reserves in the same year.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
13.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there
are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in
the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for
aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending
of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.



17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
18.       Due to Kenya's worsening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The SP identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. It offers, among other things, a
revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country's urgent
financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance of payments
pressures.
Economic Prospects
19.       Compared to 1979, preliminary estimates for 1980 indicate a further
deterioration in Kenya's balance of payments position. Based on adjusted
import approvals for the first seven months of the year, the value of imported
goods (assuming continued imports of food) and non factor services in 1980,
could rise by as much as 30%. On the basis of actual oil imports during the
period January through June of 1980, the increase in the oil bill accounts for
about 42% of this figure. The resource gap is expected to be 87% above its
1979 level. The overall balance of payments is forecast to regilster a deficit
of US$553 million in 1980. Drawings under the IMP standby, the first Structural
Adjustment Credit and other non-project assistance are expected to finance 43%
of the deficit. It is further projected that Kenya's balance of payments
constraint will continue in the short-run. Factors outside Kenya's control,
such as climatic conditions, slow economic activity in the West, and oil price
increases, have a significant impact on Kenya-s economy and make a forecast of
a turnaround point particularly difficult.
20.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. In early 1979 the President announced several measures which are not
included in the Plan, but which will have significant direct budgetary conse-
quences for the 1980/81 budget and thereafter. These measures include: (a)
provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school; (b)
elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary school;
(c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase in
employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, increased military expenditures will also increase



- 6 -
budgetary pressure. This pressure, besides having a negative impact on the
availability of counterpart funds for ongoing and new projects, also implies
more restraint on new public commitments.
21.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has adopted a set of policy measures in its FY1980/81 budget aimed at
enhancing both the country's export and debt management capabilities. These
measures have been agreed with the Bank Group, within the framework of the
first Structural Adjustment Credit, and include: (a) substitution of import
duties for non-tariff barriers, (b) elimination of all Letters of No Objec-
tion privileges, (c) increase of the export compensation rate from 10% to 20%
of f.o.b. value of exports, (d) simplifying the procedures for export compen-
sation payments, and (e) creation of a Debt Management Office with responsi-
bility for developing a reasonable annual borrowing program in order to help
control external borrowing more efficiently. The Government has also reached
agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a new stand-by arrangement
for US$316 million over a period of two years starting October 15, 1980. The
agreement involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth, including
the use of the Special Fund Facility.
External Debt
22.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has led to an increase in the debt service ratio from 5% in
1977 to an estimated 12% in 1980. This includes service payments on a notional
50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service ratio is expected
to rise to about 16% in the mid-1980s, and decline gradually thereafter. Debt
service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total debt service payments; the IDA
share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt service payments is expected to
rise to about 22% by 1985, while IDA's share would rise to 1%. The Bank is
presently holding 22% of Kenya's total outstanding external debt, and IDA 9%.
The Bank's share is expected to rise to 26% and IDA's to 15% by 1985. The
expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual
switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion of
some Loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments con-
straPitt, Kenya-s development program will require substantial financing in
excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital combined
and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a substantial
portion of total project costs, including some local costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
23.       The developments affecting the East African Community were outlined
in a re, crt to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and mork recent developments were reported in a statement to the Executive
Directors during their meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the
independent mediator appointed by the Partner States in January 1978, has
visited East Africa on numerous occasions and prepared reports on the results



- 7 -
of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services,
and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities. In
March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments his proposals for
the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their consideration. The
mediator has also prepared a supplemental report in response to the Governments
comments on his proposal and the next step would be the start of negotiations
among the three Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to
his terms of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving
at a definitive settlement. The mediator-s report and recommendations on the
future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted
by the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty to
enact the new Charter have been ratified by the three Governments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPE< 'IONS IN KENYA
24.       To date, Kenya has received 35 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 32 IDA credits amounting to US$1,182.9 million, which
support 59 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of
the East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community corporations,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of November 30, 1980.
25.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also focused
on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed interna-
tional economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to comprehen-
sively address the issues of income distribution, population growth, and
appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policies.
26.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. Projects approved since January 1980 comprise a Third
Power Project, a Fourth Line of Credit to the Industrial Development Bank, a
Structural Adjustment Credit to help address Kenya's balance-of-payments
difficulties, a Technical Assistance Credit for export promotion to complement
the Structural Adjustment Credit, and a Fisheries Project. In addition,
a fourth agricultural credit project, a cotton processing and marketing
project, a railway project and an urban transport project have been appraised,
while a second structural adjustment credit, a technical assistance loan for
petroleum exploration promotion, a second population project, and a third
forestry project are under preparation.



- 8 -
27.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory; how-
ever, progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has been slow due to
administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate.
Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road cons-
truction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete these
projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost
overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financers. Periodic meetings are
held by the Bank Group and the Government to review the implementation of
on-going projects; the most recent such review was in January 1981 and focussed
on problems in the agricultural sector.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
28.       IFC has committed a total of US$51.3 million for five companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.) and Development
Finance Company of Kenya Ltd. In addition, a credit line for medium- and
small-scale enterprises has been extended to the Commercial Bank of Kenya.
As of November 30, 1980, IFC held for its own account US$30.9 million
comprising US$21.5 million of loans and US$9.4 million of equity. A summary
of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Organization and Structure of the Sector
29.       The educational system in Kenya consists of general educational
and technical training institutions, operated both by the Government and
by self-help Harambee efforts with Government assistance; on-the-job
training and adult education, both privately and governmentally managed;
support facilities for teacher training, book production and distribution,
and educational uses of mass communication. General education consists of
seven years of primary and six years of secondary education, with major exit
points based on national examinations after the seventh year of primary and
the fourth and sixth years of secondary education. The Ministry of Basic
Education (MOBE) is responsible for the administration of pre-primary and
primary education and primary teacher training. The Ministry of Higher
Education (MOHE) has responsibility for secondary and higher education and for
the Harambee Institutes of Technology. A wide range of both non-formal
education and professional training programs are administered by numerous
other Government ministries and agencies, and also by private firms and
voluntary agencies.
30.       Since Independence in 1963, Kenya has rapidly expanded educational
institutions at all levels, particularly at the secondary and tertiary levels
in the 1960s and latterly at the primary level. Primary education is close to
being universal, and enrollments have been greatly increased by the progres-
sive abolition of tuition fees and the introduction of the milk distribution
program. While Kenya has devoted a large share of Government expenditures to



- 9 -
expanding the education system, pockets of regional disparities remain. In
keeping with overall economic philosophy, national economic growth has been
viewed as the ultimate equalizer of educational opportunities and little or no
attempt has been made to compensate the less affluent communities for their
inability to carry out educational programs which other communities can
afford. While the efforts to provide free and universal primary education
should tend to reduce these geographical imbalances to some extent, much
remains to be done in order to ultimately eliminate regional inequities.
Government Plans and Policies in the Sector
31.       Following a period of rapid educational expansion, the emphasis is
now on improved quality, efficiency and relevance in education, combined with
fiscal restraint.  Tiese policies are embodied in the Fourth Development Plan
(FDP), which incorporates many of the recommendations of the National Committee
on Educational Objectives and Policies (NCEOP), established in 1975 to prepare
a report which would have "far-reaching effects on the objectives, structure
and content of the education system" and to provide a framework for the
implementation of recommended changes. The NCEOP report, issued in January
1977, concentrates on general education and more specifically primary educa-
tion, but lacks an adequate analysis of the recommendations concerning techni-
cal education and training. Although the report was never formally adopted by
the Government, the FDP incorporates many of its recommendations.
32.       Primary Education  Free and universal education for seven years
is adopted as an FDP target. The enrollment at primary levels was estimated
at about 3.7 million students in 1979; female enrollment was 47% of the total.
A scheme for the distribution of milk to all primary school children is
included in the FDP. Other proposed measures relate to improvements in
the quality and relevance of primary education through curriculum reform;
strengthening the teaching of mathematics, science, and pre-vocational
subjects; strengthening and expansion of the inspectorate; the phasing out of
untrained teachers; and the upgrading of teachers through in-service training
programs. Although the FDP excluded the NCEOP recommendation for the exten-
sion of basic education by two years, the President has publicly announced his
support for such an extension, which may be introduced in the future. While
the target of seven years free, universal, primary education is a signifi-
cant step in meeting basic needs, the proposed extension by two years appears
inappropriate when much remains to be done to improve the efficiency and
quality of both primary and secondary school education. Moreover, the exten-
sion of the system of basic education to a nine year primary cyc'Le would not
be compatible with the budgetary constraints which have been set. It is
doubtful whether less affluent local communities would be able to provide for
the expansion of physical facilities required for the additional two years of
primary education. (Local communities and municipalities are responsible for
the construction and maintenance of primary schools.) The free milk distribu-
tion scheme is also costly (about 4% of the budget of the Ministry of Educa-
tion in FY 1979/80).



- 10 -
33.       Secondary Education.  The enrollment at secondary levels was esti-
mated at about 378,000 in 1979; 41% of total enrollment was female. The FDP
proposes a modest expansion of secondary education with continued assistance
to Harambee secondary schools, emphasis on the science streams (including
agriculture) at the senior levels, and on the training of additional teachers.
The number of secondary technical schools will be increased, and to minimize
incremental costs school fees are being revised upward. In fact, secondary
school fees were increased by more than 50% in early 1980, and it remains to
be seen to what extent increased costs dampen the demand for expansion of
Government-aided secondary schools.
34.       University Education.  The enrollment at the only university in
Kenya, the University of Nairobi, is expected to grow at 5% per annum in the
FDP period. The university had an enrollment of 8,430 students in the 79/80
academic year, and 26% of the enrollment was female. Due to the lack of an
up-to-date manpower study, it is difficult to project the requirements for
university graduates. However, as known shortages exist in some fields and
because of the low enrollment of the corresponding age group (about 1%) the
projected expansion of intake appears reasonable. A working committee is
being established to prepare a proposal for the creation of a second univer-
sity, for possible new fields of study; the lack of physical space at the
University of Nairobi for further expansion indicates a need for a second
university.
35.       Non-formal Education.  The Ministry of Culture and Social Services
bears the main responsibility for out-of-school youth and adult education.
During the FDP period, emphasis in this area will be on training community
leaders, support to women s groups, and expanding the Family Life Training
Centers and the Craft Centers. A mass adult literacy program has been
launched with an enrollment target of one million by 1983, to be achieved
through increased use of the radio and rural press. It is proposed also to
establish additional Farmer Training Centers, and to reorient extension and
information services to group programs for small farmers.
36.       Middle-and Upper-Level Manpower Training.  Most of the FDP proposals
for expansion of specialized training of middle and higher level manpower, in
agriculture, health, water development, and industry are based on an assess-
ment of additional manpower requirements and are fully justified. The FDP
proposes a study of manpower needs and cooperative training possibly leading
to an extension of the Cooperative College. The FDP also stresses the need for
better coordination of training activities at the national level, to avoid
duplication and waste. To this end it proposes the establishment of a
coordinating unit in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
(MEPD), and the setting up of a related Policy Steering Committee.
37.       School Management.  A major constraint to the efficient organization
and administration of primary, secondary, and teacher training institutions
has been the lack of training of key administrative staff in management skills.
The rapid expansion of educational institutions at primary and secondary



- 11 -
levels has led to the appointment of headmasters and deputies who possess only
limited experience as teachers and have no training in school organization and
administration. These appointees are charged with the management of institu-
tions which grow in complexity as new curricula are developed, as the increas-
ing demand for scarce physical facilities calls for new organizational tech-
niques, and in particular, as they assume ever-increasing responsibilities for
a complicated and all-embracing accounting system of receipts and expenditures.
The Government has, therefore, given high priority to the training of school
managers.
38.       Costs of Education and the Need for Control of Expenditures.  A
thorough revision of plans and policies in education has been rendered neces-
sary by the deterioration of the Kenyan economy since the preparation of
the FDP and the bleaker prospects for the future. Budgetary stringency would
mean that the Government is likely to be able to implement only the highest
priority programs, and even these may take longer in implementation than
originally projected. An indication of the financial difficulties that can
be foreseen is given by the fact that the FDP projected recurrent: expenditures
in education to grow at approximately the same rate as total recurrent expendi-
tures during the FDP period, while in FY79/80 they had already grown over 50%
faster than the total. The revision of education plans will also have to take
into account that the latest estimate of school age population growth places
it at about 4% per annum as compared with previous estimates of 3.5% per
annum, and that the recent division of the former Ministry of Education into
two separate ministries has brought about an expenditure increase in the
general administration of education.
Previous Bank Group Lending for Education
39.       Since 1966 the Bank Group has assipted Kenya with four education
projects, totalling US$46.1 million equivalent (US$3.30 per capita) for a
total investment of US$67.8 million (US$4.90 per capita).
40.       The First Education Project (Credit 93-KE), approved in 1966 in the
amount of US$7.0 million, financed a major expansion program involving the
construction and equipping of forty-two general secondary schools, nine
technical schools, and eleven primary teacher training colleges, including
boarding facilities and staff housing. The Second Education Project (Credit
185-KE), approved in 1970 in the amount of US$6.1 million, was designed to
expand training for agriculture staff and farmers, secondary and technical
education, and primary teacher training: It financed a program involving the
Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Nairobi, three Agricultural
Institutes, five Farmer Training Centers, six secondary schools, a Secondary
Teacher Training College, a Technical Institute, and helped to create the
Planning Unit in the Ministry of Education which prepared the baickground work
of the NCEOP. The Third Education Project (Loan 1184-KE), approved in 1976,
in the amount of US$10.0 million, focused on the expansion and improvement of
primary teacher training and on the distribution and storage of school
equipment, and also provided assistance for (i) the development of curricula
and educational media and (ii) the NCEOP, which issued its report in January



- 12 -
1977. The Fourth Education Project (Credit 797-KE), signed in June 1979 in
the amount of US$23.0 million, included an expansion of agricultural training
capacity at degree and certificate levels, the development of project manage-
ment training, assistance to primary education in disadvantaged areas and to
post-primary craft training, and support for educational services, including
curriculum development, examination research, and planning.
41.       The First Education Project was reviewed by the Operations Evalua-
tion Department in 1974. The audit indicated some shortcomings in the
attainment of the qualitative objectives and in the use of the equipment and
facilities provided; however, the overall project objectives were met
and the project was physically completed within the anticipated time period.
The Second Education Project was audited in 1979 with the following conclu-
sions: a) The quantitative targets had been met or exceeded and the project
facilities were basically fully utilized. The project appraisal had, however,
probably not paid enough attention to the training of the staff of the
certificate level institutions; and their quality was not up to standard;
b) Where the Ministry of Works (MOW) had commissioned private architectural
firms, physical implementation had made good progress, but the limited MOW
manpower devoted to the project had hindered design work and site supervision
for components entirely under its own responsibility. There was also a lack
of cooperation between the Ministry of Education's Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) and the MOW education team. In the Second Education Project,
substitution of a new secondary technical school for expansion of an existing
school, at the Government-s request, contributed to a two-year postponement
of the Closing Date. The Third Education Project had been about two years
behind the appraisal schedule as a major part of the design work on the
project was entrusted to the MOW, and delays occurred, which reflect MOW's
inability to carry out its work in a timely manner. However, some lost time
has been made up through assigning work to private architectural firms,
and the project is now expected to be completed by December 1982, six months
behind schedule. The Fourth Education Project is expected to be completed on
schedule, and satisfactory progress has been made in the design work as a
result of MOW's decision to employ private consulting firms. However, there
is a need to review the machinery for coordination and the respective roles
of the PIU and the MOW. The capacity of the PIU to handle procurement should
also be strengthened. The recent division of the Ministry of Education into
two ministries has added to the problems of coordination. The lessons
learned from these experiences are being addressed in the proposed project,
since it has been designed to overcome the major constraints identified
above (see para. 70).
Bank Group Strategy in the Education Sector
42.       Bank Group strategy in the Education Sector is to support priority
projects in Government development plans, and would include further assistance
in training or education components in future industrial and agricultural
projects. With regard to general education, the Bank Group should not play a
major role in school construction, since at the primary level, this area is



- 13 -
largely the responsibility of individual communities, while at the secondary
level expansion is taking place rapidly without further Bank Group assistance.
Therefore, the Bank Group would focus on further actions to improve the
quality and efficiency of general education, and to expand education on the
basis of identified manpower needs and the financial capacity of the Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       Appraisal of the project took place during May 1980.  The appraisal
mission was preceded by a Bank/UNESCO identification mission in April 1979 and
a UNESCO preparation mission in September/October 1979. Negotiations were held
in Nairobi, in January 1981, and the Z.enyan delegation was led by Mr. J. T.
arap Leting, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education. A Credit and
Project Summary is at the beginning of this report, and a Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3167-KE of February 12, 1981 is being distributed separately. A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is provided as Annex III.
Project Objectives
44.       The proposed Fifth Education project is aimed at assisting Kenya,
in particular its public sector, in the training of the middle- and higher-
level technical manpower required to carry out specific programs and projects
in various fields. More precisely, the proposed project would help in the
training of: a) primary and secondary schools management staff; b) high-and
middle-level technicians in agriculture; c) high-and middle-level technicians
entrusted with the implementation of water development schemes; and d)
skilled workers for the industrial sector. The project would also assist in
the identification of the need for and availability of business educa-
tion and training in the country.
Project Components
Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI)
45.       This component would provide institutionalized in-service training
in school management and administration to some 10,000 headmasters, deputy
headmasters, bursars/accounts clerks, ancillary school staff and provincial
district education officers, and the inspectorate. The component, would
comprise the construction, furnishing and equipping of a modest Mlanagement
Center for the Kenya Education Staff Institute (KESI); two man-years of
fellowship study abroad in school administration to the professional staff
of the Center; one year of technical assistance for the development and
planning of training courses for course tutors and for project target ben-
eficiaries; and the actual training of school staff during a five year
period. Training courses of two weeks each, in the school vacations, utiliz-
ing existing residential accomodation, would cover school organization



- 14 -
and administration. It is anticipated that about 10,000 of the estimated
12,000 personnel requiring training could be accommodated over the five-year
term of the project. The school staff training would be the most important
single item to be financed under this project component, which would include
modest facilities for the Management Center, the operational costs of planning,
executing, supervising, and evaluating the training programs, including the
initial cost of the KESI staff participating in the project, and transporta-
tion and subsistence expenditure of the KESI personnel and course participants.
A satisfactory organization scheme and timetable for carrying out the in-
service training program has been reviewed by IDA. The Government would
provide, through the PIU, annual progress reports on the in-service training
program of KESI (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Faculty of Agriculture
46.       The project includes the establishment of a new Department of Range
Management and facilities for the recently-established Department of Forestry
at the University of Nairobi. The two new departments would add about 165
student places to the Faculty in three-year bachelor's level degree courses.
This expansion is justified on manpower grounds. Range areas, which comprise
about two-thirds of the Kenyan landmass, support both livestock and wildlife;
there is an urgent need for range science graduates. In the field of forestry,
the need has been realized for an immediate, aggressive policy of afforesta-
tion in marginal and semi-arid lands, and great emphasis has been placed on
rural afforestation and forest extension services throughout the country.
All these programs require highly qualified personnel with training relevant
to conditions in Kenya.
47.       The proposed component includes teaching and boarding facilities,
and a limited number of staff houses, as well as some transport facilities and
technical assistance. In view of the importance of field training, a limited
number of boarding, teaching, and transportation facilities at the field
station would also be provided. In order to ensure high teaching standards
for the new Departments and to allow them to develop their own teaching and
research expertise, also included would be technical assistance of 18 man-
years for specialists and 28 man-years for fellowships. A satisfactory staff
development plan for both departments has been reviewed by IDA. The Govern-
ment would ensure that the University of Nairobi submits through the PIU
annual progress reports on staff training programs (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Coast Agricultural Institute
48.       A critical shortage of trained field extension officers exists in
the country, which constrains the implementation of development projects in
the agricultural sector, particularly in the Integrated Agricultural Develop-
ment Program (IADP), and in the staffing of most agricultural/veterinary
services. In order to meet the demand for field extension officers, and to
fill a critical training gap in one of the major agro-ecological regions of
Kenya, the proposed project includes the establishment of the Coast Agricul-
tural Institute (certificate level) to be located at Kilifi, 50 km north of
Mombasa. The Institute would have teaching and boarding facilities for



- 15 -
about 400 students, as well as transportation facilities, mainly for field
work. Staff housing facilities are also included. One-fourth of the student
places would be reserved for women. When the Institute is in full operation,
the total output of certificate level training institutions would be consistent
with the numbers required to fill the 9,400 certificate level positions
projected to be available in 1988.
49.       The project would include a technical assistance component of
28 man-years for specialist teachers and 20 man-years of fellowships, to
enable the new Institute to start operations efficiently. The Gcovernment
would provide, by December 31, 1981, a satisfactory program for the technical
assistance (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). While
the Institute would provide well-rounded training, its curriculum would be
geared to training dealing with the different crops, ecological conditions,
and agricultural production systems of the coastal areas. The location at
Kilifi combines ideal conditions for field training and practica:L extension
work among neighboring farmers. A student exchange program between the three
Agricultural Institutes in Kenya (at Embu, Bukura, and Kilifi) would enable
students to familiarize themselves with the agricultural conditions of the
three different ecological areas in the country. The Government would submit,
through the PIU annual progress reports on staff training programs (Section
4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Kenya Water Resources Training Institute (KWRTI)
50.       In the FDP, the water development program is the third largest
single item in the Government's development budget. In 1970 the Government
initiated a series of rural water supply programs with the ultimate objective
of providing the entire rural population with safe water by the year 2000.
By 1988, the number of rural and urban water supply schemes operated by the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD) is likely to be more than doubled from
the present figure. In addition to the training required for the projected
increment of new staff, the MWD needs continuous in-service and refresher
training for its staff, and a number of water-supply and sewerage systems
operated by municipal councils also have substantial unmet training needs.
The existing Water Department Training School cannot expand its capacity at
its present location, to meet its needs for carrying out the present and
planned water development program. The proposed project therefore includes
the establishment of a new school with a capacity more consistent with train-
ing demands. Training would be instituted at two levels: sub-professional
and skilled workers' cadres would be trained in the new, centraL KWRTI, while
lower grades would be trained at the provincial level in instituations such as
the Harambee Institutes, Craft Training Centers or Industrial Training
Centers, and at the existing water school, when the KWRTI becomes fully
operational in 1984/85.
51.       The KWRTI would be established for about 400 trainee places.  The
main components of the training program would be: a) a common pre-selection
introductory course of five months' duration; b) an Ordinary Diploma Course in
Water Engineering of two and a half years' duration; c) job-related short
courses; and d) in-service training. A suitable site for the KWRTI has been
selected at Kajiado, about 70 km from Nairobi. The project would provide



- 16 -
classrooms, laboratories, and workshop facilities, including machinery and
equipment for the training courses, boarding and catering facilities for the
trainees, and, because of local shortages, housing for the staff.
52.       A staff development program has been prepared, consisting of a
phased program of technical and instructor training for fifty teaching
staff beginning in 1981 and ending mid-1987. Each trainee would receive
technical training locally and abroad, and the instructor training would
be arranged in cooperation with the Kenya Technical Teachers College in
Nairobi. Altogether, 17 man-years of specialist services would be provided
under the project. The Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA),
would provide 25 man-years of fellowships for training abroad and 15 man-years
of specialist services as part of their on-going technical assistance program
for the Ministry of Water Development. The Government would provide by
December 31, 1981, a satisfactory program for the technical assistance
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and would ensure
that the KWRTI would submit through the PIU annual progress reports on staff
training programs. (Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement.)
Industrial Training Centers (ITCs)
53.       The three ITCs in Nairobi, Kisumu, and Mombasa, under the Directorate
of Industrial Training (DIT) of the Ministry of Labor, train skilled craftsmen.
The growth of the labor force in the industrial sector, the high number of
applicants for the trade tests, and industry's request for specific apprentice-
ship training, indicate that the craft training facilities at the ITCs are
insufficient to meet expected training demands. With the introduction of the
industrial training levy in the early 1970s, the proceeds of which are used
to reimburse employers for training expenses, the Government is committed to
meet the training needs of those industries contributing to the levy. Mainly
because of the limitation of the ITCs training facilities, an important share
of the levy proceeds remain undisbursed.
54.       While the ITC in Nairobi is assisted by various donor agencies,
both the Kisumu and Mombasa Centers have been established with assistance
from the Danish Government through its aid agency, DANIDA, which continues
to provide technical assistance to both Centers. DANIDA has been asked by the
Government of Kenya to provide all technical assistance and equipment needed
in connection with the projected expansion of facilities for the two Centers.
The construction and furnishing of this expansion is included in the proposed
project. The appraisal of this component was carried out jointly with DANIDA.
55.       The Kisumu Industrial Training Center (KITC) would be expanded to
include additional classrooms and a new workshop for the construction trades,
increasing the overall educational capacity of the Center from 226 to 324
trainee places. Because the shortage of boarding places is a serious con-
straint to the effective utilization of the Center, the provision of 180
additional places has been included in the project. With the more efficient
use of instructors, only five additional instructors would be required.
Instructors would be trained in the Technological Institute and the Kenya
Technical Teachers Training College under a program agreed between the College
and the DIT.



- 17 -
56.       The proposed project would provide the Mombasa Industrial Training
Center (MITC) with two workshops for the introduction of new training courses:
one for electrical trades and one for construction/carpentry trades, which
would increase the overall capacity of the Center to 288 trainee places
from the present level of 156. The project would also include classrooms,
an electrical laboratory, hostels, and six staff houses. The number of
instructors would be increased from the present sixteen to twentynine when the
expanded Center is in full operation. These instructors would also be trained
in the Technological Institute and in the Kenya Technical Teachers Training
College.
57.       DANIDA has an on-going program assisting these Centers, and as its
participation would be part of the agency's broader, on-going program, its
cost has not been included in the proposed project. The contribution is
tentatively estimated at about US$1.6 million equivalent, with about US$0.6
million expected to finance equipment and about US$1.0 million expected to
finance twenty-one man-years of technical assistance (nine man-years of expert
assistance for each of the two Centers and three man-years to assist the DIT
in planning and coordinating technical training programs). The Government
has reached agreement with DANIDA on the provision of the necessary equipment
and technical assistance to the Industrial Training Centers. The Government
would also, through the DIT, carry out programs, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, for the training of the instructors required by the expansion of the
Industrial Training Centers (Section 4.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Pre-Investment Study on Business Education
58.       While there are indications that qualified manpower in the business
field is in short supply in Kenya, there is no precise informaticn on the
magnitude of the shortages, or on the available capacity to provide business
education and training. Therefore, the proposed project includes a pre-
investment study on development of business education and trainin,g. The
purpose of the study is: a) to identify the manpower needs for qualified
personnel in the business field at various levels, for both the public and
private sectors; b) to identify the availability of facilities fc,r business
education and training; and c) if justified, to propose fully costed concrete
projects for improving and/or expanding business education and training
programs. The study would cover both qualitative and quantitative aspects,
with emphasis on the assessment of curricula and teachers  and trainers
qualifications and performance. The study would be coordinated by the
Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE), with Terms of Reference prepared by a
Steering Committee including representatives of the Ministries of Higher
Education, Commerce, Industry, and Economic Planning and Development, and the
Federation of Kenya Employers. The project would finance the services of
experts and consultants, transport and travel, secretarial assistance and
other costs related to the study. The Government would by September 30, 1981
establish the Steering Committee to prepare the Terms of Reference for carry-
ing out the study. The Government would employ the consultants and experts
required for carrying out the study, with qualifications and experience and



- 18 -
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and submit to the
Association for comments, the conclusions of the study by June 30, 1983.
(Section 3.02(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at US$55.0 million equivalent;
the net cost excluding taxes (US$1.8 million) would be US$53.2 million equiva-
lent. The foreign exchange component would be about US$25.1 million, or 46%
of the total. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 31.4 million (US$40.0 million)
equivalent would finance the entire foreign exchange component and contribute
53% of local costs. The resource constraints operating within Kenya and the
importance attached to the implementation of this project justify the financing
of a substantial portion of its local costs (cf. para. 22 above). The Govern-
ment would provide the balance of local costs of US$15.0 million equivalent.
Both the project capital costs and the incremental recurrent costs would be
borne by the Ministries under which the new institutions will operate. The
annual average capital expenditure required by the project would account for
less than 4% of the projected development budget of the five Ministries
concerned, while incremental recurrent expenditures required by the full
operation of the project are estimated at less than 1% of the combined
recurrent budget of these Ministries. Thus, the components of the proposed
project, which are consistent with the country's development priorities,
would also be consistent with the projected financing capacity of the Central
Government.
60.       Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment, and vehicles
are based on a review of data provided by the Ministry of Works, the PIU, and
the private sector. Base unit construction costs (January 1981) vary from
US$330 to US$400 per square meter, depending on the location, type of build-
ing, and educational level for which the building is intended. Although
direct comparison is not possible due to the specialized nature of the train-
ing facilities in the project, these estimates are reasonable in the light of
experience with post-secondary institutions in neighboring African countries.
Schedules of accommodation are economical and appropriate to accomplish the
educational objectives of the project. The average cost per man-year of
technical assistance specialists is estimated at US$90,000, and for fellow-
ships at US$15,000. The price and physical contingencies are adequate.
Project Preparation Facility
61.       In October 1980, IDA approved an advance of US$370,000 from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), to be refinanced under the proposed Credit
when it becomes effective. The provision of these funds has facilitated an
early start in the recruitment of staff and training abroad for the KESI and
also the appointment of consultant architects and engineers for the prepara-
tion of designs for the new institutions and facilities included in the
project.



- 19 -
Project Implementation
62.       The project would be completed in a period of about five years.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry of Basi'c Education,
which is implementing the Third and Fourth Education Projects, would be
responsible for the implementation of the proposed Project. The project would
finance the continuing services of an architect for the PIU for four years
and also incremental operating expenditures of the PIU, including salaries,
utilities, vehicles, fuel, and maintenance. The PIU would also be strengthened
by the appointment of an assistant project director (educator), an accountant,
a procurement officer, and a quantity surveyor, all provided by t:he Government
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). To ensure smooth
cooperation between the PIU and the several ministries involved -in the project,
all concerned ministries would appoint representatives to coordinate with the
PIU, not later than June 30, 1981 (Section 3.01(c) of the draft D)evelopment
Credit Agreement).
Reporting
63.       Progress reports on implementation would be submitted on a regular
basis (normally semi-annually) by the PIU to the Association.
Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering)
64.       For the design, preparation and supervision of construction, con-
sultants would be selected and appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credlit Agreement).
Site Selection
65.       For the expansion of the ITC's of Mombasa and Kisumu and the Faculty
of Agriculture, sufficient land adjacent to the existing premises is available.
For the KWRTI, KESI and the Coast Agricultural Institute satisfaztory sites
have been selected and acquired.
Procurement
66.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for procurement, except as follows: (a) civil
works contracts of less than US$500,000 each, (estimated to total US$0.6 mil-
lion), and (b) furniture and equipment and vehicles contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent (estimated to total US$0.8 million). Contracts for
(a) and (b) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists of con-
struction materials, furniture, equipment, and vehicles (including proposed



- 20 -
grouping) would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to
the extent possible to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation
documents prior to award would not be required for (a) and (b). Domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15%
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the CIF price
of competing foreign suppliers.
Disbursement
67.      Disbursement would be on the basis of:  (a) 70% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported furniture,
equipment, and vehicles, 100% of ex-factory expenditures when manufactured
locally, or 70% of local expenditures when procured locally; (c) 70% of local
expenditures for training costs and for incremental operational costs of
project administration; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 70% of local
expenditures for technical assistance and professional services. Disburse-
ments under (a), (b), and (d) would be fully documented. Disbursements for
(c), estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent, would be under statements of
expenditure. Based upon experience in previous education projects, the PIU
has satisfactory institutional capacity to use the statement of expenditure
procedure.
Auditing
68.       Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under this project including those expenditures reimbursed against statements
of expenditure. Auditing would be performed by auditors acceptable to the
Association, applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Audit reports would
be submitted to the Association within six months following the end of each of
the Borrower's fiscal years (Section 4.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
69.     The proposed project would provide assistance in the training of
middle- and higher-level technical manpower required to carry out specific
programs and projects in various fields. Thus, it would assist in imple-
menting the NCEOP recommendations on improving quality and efficiency in
the general education system by providing in-service training for staff
responsible for school administration and management. Secondly, in agricul-
ture, trained manpower is lacking for the control of soil erosion in grazing
areas, to implement livestock programs being assisted by various agencies
including the Bank Group, and to carry out forestry sector development plans.
The proposed project would provide qualified personnel (who had to be trained
abroad in the past), with skills specifically suited to the rangeland and
forestry requirements of Kenya. The project would also provide training to
meet the demand for field extension officers necessary for the implementation
of the Government's rural development programs. In the FDP, the water devel-
opment program is the third largest single item in the Government's budget.



- 21 -
However, since the existing training capacity is well below that required to
meet the needs of the present and planned water development programs, the
proposed project would provide additional facilities for the training of the
middle- and higher-level technicians required for the effective implementa-
tion of the water development programs. Craft training facilities at the
existing industrial training centers are insufficient to meet the existing
training demands for skilled craftsmen. The proposed project would provide
for the training of industrial workers in electrical and construction/carpentry
trades mainly for the enterprises contributing to the industrial training
levy.  Finally, the proposed pre-investment study would assist in the identi-
fication of business education needs and develop programs to meet such needs.
70.      No major risks are envisaged.  However, certain lessons learned
from past experience are being addressed in this project. Thus, to avoid
a shortage of qualified teaching staff for the project institutions, the
necessary specialist services and fellowships are either included in the
project, or provided by other bilateral agencies. Also, to minimize
implementation delays, the PIU is being strengthened through additional staff,
and to ensure appropriate cooperation between the PIU and the ministries
involved in the project, each ministry would have to appoint a representative
to coordinate with the PIU.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are referred to in Annex III of this report.
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART Vl - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
February 18, 1981



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
PaRte I
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEOGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            582.6
AGRICULTURAL      60.4                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 fb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  110.0       170.0     380.0                260.0                    868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0      139.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      8.0         11.3      14.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4         10.2      13.3                 17.3                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        109.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2140
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0         19.0      25.0                 27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. KK. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0        191.0     243.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.5        45.8       49.5                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 Yas.                         50.0        51.6      48.0                  52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5         2.6        2.5                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2          3.4       3.3                  2.7                      2. 7
URBAN                              5.8          6.6       6.9                  6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0       51.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0         15.0      14.0                 19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          3.4       3.8                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         30.9      71.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         2. 2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          99.0        102.0      87.0                 91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   99. 0       99.0       88.0                 90.2                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          70.0         68.0      52.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       29.0        28.0       20.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     25.0         18.0      14.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0        52.0       53.0                 45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/c      119.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         15.0      17.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                               ..          2.0       4.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0       55.0                 28.9
URBAN                               ..         85.0      98.0                 67.0
RURAL                               ..        45.0       48.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10560.0       7839.0/d 11954.0/d            30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2230.0bcd  1476.0/d  1116.01k               5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            807.01c      775.0     629.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          4.7
URBAN                               ..          4.7
RURAL                               ..         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.5/         ..
RURAL                               ..          .-         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWTELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



-23 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 51iEET
KENYA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (hEIGHTEn AVE5ACES
- MOST RECENT FSTIMATE)
M4OST RECENT           LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 L  ESTTIATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         64.0     104.0                   57.7                     61.7
MALE                  64.0         74.0      110.0                  74.2                      69.2
EMAL E               30.0         53.0      98.0                   54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   IOTAL                   2.0          9.0      17.0                   10.0                     20.6
MALE                   3. 0        12.0      21.0                   13.7                      29.2
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0      13.0                    7. 1                     14. 7
VOCATIONAI ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       2.0                    6.8                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0         34.0      33.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           15.0         21.0      24.0                   25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PEPCENT)         20. Oc       30.0      40.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           8. 0         9.0       7. 8                   3.6                     38. 8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7. 0       45.0       38.0                   31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 3         1. 4      3.7                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAiLY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   13.0         14.0      10.0                    4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0             ..       0.4                     ..                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3230.3      4324.4    5437.9
fEIALE (PERCENT)                    34.8        33.6       34.0                  33.5                      38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               85.8         82.1      79.0                   80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5. 1         7. 1      8.0                    8. 1                    17. 8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 4i.2         40.6      39.2                   42.2                      38.8
MALE                                  54. 5        53.8      52.3                   55.1                      48.4
FEHALE                                28.2         27.4      26.1                   29.5                     29.4
ECONCMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 2         1. 3       1. 4                  1. 2                      1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.2/e
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.          ....
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          3.e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         11.71*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     150.0                  183.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     112.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      179.0                  107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOWI ABSOLUTE
POVERTY lNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      10. 0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       55.0                   66.9
NoE availN ble
Not appl c able.
NOTES
/a   The group averoges for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among Lhe indicaetors depends oni availability of data and is not uniform.
L    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1l60 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estl-ste, between 1974 and 1978.
L    1962;  L  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;  /e Urban only.
Moat rtcent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24 -                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3
tEFtPIitIOti OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
therfsesgop   ra1)cnea    ert   etup  of uhe sobles u-                              e   aed(2) a  ause .gop ulsh somehat higher averge  tlce-  th-~ she c--tiYgep
soce-ul url  O fue is). toshereererscrep   .at .te        ..erg. .ee pap.isti_selhs   arssttcen                   e   ah cod eet-  andsee  oul
dens ah   s  o  uior,ctineathecacaa1C   aleig   ntee o-n  ondtIee  t  stoierl.   hesehrardge  ar  onecofl    onprocbes
edeeidlacrsaiesnttreeortIadrletss    rops
2.030 afa  uboate   aqa.                                          oeuatin Pt Srsiiat     'ouasoe   eniea   y nmne  ospnatieuageny
ori - toa    sun fac   a      .s.omrIIn  lar  araadiln    sesdiie    oifa   fo        eis    tola   na                                                     ylni
ouiaisdby sameonresen kr nsrod an go,rlo  tsd-Aia t19 -Ot          Se is)1   lAte,           setlhi -     n f ohiio  as.d. prt ss   generl en  spmi_ ied  hsh              a
GNP pl,  .pi, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ pa   ime   i   hsca.t-slstet    rodn   pene. li   nsoda
':. ~ ~ 1 -79 b..i.); 196           asia inlcb de i 550  ppbisei.dpsi-tses w        hpcalnd   o pital.l ad tota
atali   )i  kpltiu,AI-near -ailIta   -              -c  o  Juy; 1960, 19701..ad 1978            AdisoscrSissiSd-crl_pute  elaasis    o  rdsbr
des                                                                                            free heisais.  -inde   by the nmbe to _bads                            I   l-d
ditfarwn1dolnirfoaiof uban aeas maiuffir comprabiliy  u- ata                                  onteisi
amengnounrties c 1960. 1000, and ChOStdare.                           Asarag. time  f dosahod gfrrs.r  nt.  dous ili  d toa..pirhee. asd t al1
ewnulanon tremr 2Y1-    -Ture          ouAtion rrrl soror  are0 197.  d on978n              ent:d eer   as    Iea       :haIero   eow    ayi   aynthe5nodd5
Ttotl   pouaionbd          g  stdll cease   nbipeynityad   ariin-ats                             tinhsom-h-orasnatcl  uyo
in    ieeponnya    ithb-esooihtuny 5 par  a pin h-co1                                            her-f pareuc pe  seeid.d by. cli  nh- . a- dr.crleope    onn  n
fdill.. it dccord1iog. to  ..em   level medpet damly biseitg pdpteran                       HOAccSsIoN       etiny(ansto    ell.u       uol.ubn   n    ut
an tetiity  trends  for0 -rjens   puep8 ses. tf total.   ura,i                                                 n  rural-ded  cnd         opaiely.
mat  tota     E Oi  h   cdea   onlhiare   ferstltyrsa   dec:'.d   -   t line hoA-sedtrlt-arto
of tomarapanm   hIth   mea -1lly   h  stat u.o..sriy  fotolatiwo   siea                      e.o.m..ofal.age            .r.h yt_-ay          e  us..  penatd eso  reprt1
astlifre   onP  -thebai ot rithei      . iejene   oharauststyom Pf thepepola:tlo                  rmr    roiaepyinoa  nral   tldsotde    gdhl
co she yer..      .ed  seel if   rata ..  dbclre  of      11. fes -ltoo t   em.Place-            yate ht  djutedfo  diiferawnimorc   iprsar   duain    o
neat stat teyare nulani-  -is rachdd           t fhe. ea. we - rairary. pf uato                     ic ... m..   po isoe   ao    e  bn h           of ts        h          eg ...tg
sit  ha  beenI reachd. fIe-cto '" .ftdar1r arbuwi -d r-nel  malelsl fml  -lmurdeheasedr
only..              ..at.slsowiIntfrreh                                                                                            o hredry       uoaino   isittd              s
lerten; 19Sf, 1900, std  egos fans.                                           ycrol-naecbar ratie - cr.P.ry. andItacyndhry-turaPdet1eore.e- roiled1i
latt   o    90-Sb d190-T, ad 17008.esmercrrar    f tna  adfl  pup la Io   egd  I  ersan  oe
Crde-ir  rate (rrhuad)-Ana  le    iepe   huPd fmdya
pnuebn;1f.19-                n  190  dana. - ThNSO9tPTIOyS,,.
erdei-n  rats b   er...       nd       uul  esa~t  buado  aid-peardPas-essrars (ear  thousand- realrdr f-1  Csa p-da car  ubmr-a  n-
populeis    91L 17,ad108dt,ue  sea sing las  thndgiprsn;enoeswblra.era   n
P-er     k. s - a    Mprdocn..in.. period  Of t qhsnatankila   presse    ag- -pi f   fer        ai   taor   Inst. g..   -1 oan   onl_lc   - A ll  y             f  eartafrrd
nliyrtss;                                                                                                   12al   ieyeraeae   sdu    s16.  dl   n   97.bodan    to genera   pubicprhomd of..puur--;eo tlda  usi.a-1
Puie  Itannika  ltinen1- eriena   of mareid soto b-  Ierrtg   ofatIad                              ruanre d by      iba Idesig
enmat ofoVdhsigaefIu    mr)  h   s    it-otn    a                              et                ... muiesre(re  thu        pndre-itdin   -..d.ty recet Jo fu   hestci- i..
PoAPI blITtiTIACilS                                                                                 Neesratarig.9   (5-i-.d Ch inlthn   rrtcoen luaiu   -toeti   veaecrua
Inde  offo-     routo   rrerh   11d n-...            lf- Ide  of pr ipinw- ui                      nin o  "doily gaserlinreto.tpp",dfeda petfela
prnurioo; 19f all0 fod cotumdinm.   Pcusuacumaadedfe   n                                         P.,niw   dente    pr        ti  te recodin   gerdrey  urns,  Indis consildered
rational sner.g Ipr1d50r 60  196ce0i70ra   idhi9 -h,178        ,adm.                                n  septtldoire I-
arms t.. ears 0ear 970d by Potg esd  o  pysolgha  omftfo  trml  on-                               97Od
ettd.   and health _irnth...dderino-h entomra   ePeratore...d bodyn ythra  agCaml                          fecth) -I. fsol  laErd     o         rresg   ofunllao                 iur.t
itubol  level; 1970-5,   190, 197      197  dsa.                                              iting as peren-         of turalp-.. lao   .lure;A6T.      17  and...  1h7  den...
GPer~ cr PI -oac          Ai r 'tI  brass l on   dar)   - Pr   .i  rone. .il    pet caits        isdsr   reit       )-Lmo           rat    Iig.        stun  o,mnuatrn
nssu ply rf fon   ypr da.   ifan supplyo  fo   s   einda .... ...      .ne... t-           edeertuy             oa  andoaes   erRng.of.rti    lbohfure   1960,,
qucrmanss fo  all  rornois euraliaha   by USA pronda fo 97 nImu                  197  ad   97  dt
-ua  !poeso, of..b...asioldb   ralprst.Teaead                                               orrr   a         arm  coaured a  rural hmal , adfml  labo    ferr
adisit ore. lowe     it.. tham  of.7pigr.m  of tnonal protiny sad23  grm   ofgI                      -d m, d, 
aniy  l. prtin  am  an. ate-g  Lfo  ehe-       id, pr..i.   by fa inth Tird                       peirnau bages hof  tora    ... malegn   earpplto    f  lsgsaptte
Mmarn   refo   tart'horal soitits..
oldd(ae   1-kd Mttal2r  lan   frIee  uuad   -            d annaldetb     -pertheussad         srsesrliao    es
age Areap i-I reara, ru children  in thiiaii..age group; for imoattdavegl...e-1onus-
rris dnadrtee   fy-  b   oi a   -dlis.16.  19-r    andt 1907dens.g.0510...                    5t1b O dtiSlyt ifITOtI..   fu
hd..th                                                                                            Per--ueneh-ags of' il   Pr..   Airted't  Poos  ibrith  R.u oah.nd.,   -  hcmcdhythf
Lifein o     dhane o   c th (vest  P- u-ei-g   rushere - tysrrirl  remainingd                    percent  rtrc 2i         prcur  poorest 20-peroev d.'     cd yei-atil   pere-
enbrh    96,bysdd-   ptit data.;  916,17,d    98dt.
of. age per  Ihradi lout  ftrrhd                                                              Esti'  11   I1   Iim (atdAsltPortIneo evlc)cacpi)_-uhendrrl-
A P.,sc  bde lacerK Interest o   -ooltlo) - . to1tal, urban  anIuad-_ bolt   earyItn (i.lanaid is-tha  -uooy   lee-                                             aose ba-iia
number  l ceopl hnia.   rbw.   an prusl)eut  ramoaisaoeraem                                      nsi lnly"eqasde  pu    aati onfedrqie_nei   o
Oats, acpyiy  fiunludas eyew.ed surf are eansta or uncrasted buronoeduI.amAddn...mflordableP
res-ibe.,oes  o ld  unlUhttehueieo   ebr   ftehueod                                   tti-1tned  (pr -lasosise   Absolut  povrt  Inrbe  enlt              Iraod rnI-u
doto  hed to1 spatd        65 a 1d97rroou-at   part dOn    a   rlrtagteadrrl-fros   fplltr    cra   n   ua'ib  ae'beuape'
dipsa   m   erafge    f  Ol.np     dru       ro eice. t-res  dim-                                                                                                         960,o   e   o icTi  nneo
p   -sa  ma  IttluI ve...estt  odotpoty otSorsibdr r...etl                                                                         .om . ......h end Pr)etin   laparte-at
ofhmaTIrrf   and ta ie-_re   b  usst-brni              sen or Ethee f olt
pi "rIcs  n  aintad n9elieod



- 25 -
AM~R
Ronsi  DVlOfe,et Data Sh-et
Actua.l                   Preli.easy                         Proljected                                         Aort!Ae. disl Rate of Groth                                   1978
1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981           1989          1990          1972-76           1976-fl          0981-85           1980-90           Shar  of
(86110  25 $ ass1976 price.
GDP02                                           3474.1        3 767.0       40 77.8        4176.0        4282.6        4427 .5       5332.3        7094.5            3.,2              3 .0              4.68             5.8              10.0,
2.   lairs fro   7T                                     -        o344.5         o26.3          -17.6         -62.2        -106.1        -158.2        -188.6                                                                                    0.6
I l GD                                          3474.1        4111.1        4104.1        4158.6        4220.3         4321.4        5174.2        6905.9            1.9               4.5               4.6             5.9               100.6
4.   ImPort                                        1003.2        1301.3        1621.4         1344.1        1413.0        1360.5        1585.7        1881.3           -3.2               4.3               2.6             4.6                39.8
5.   Erpomts      010                              1127.4        1094.4        1104.2        1041.4         1083. 5       1152.6        1464.8        1991.8            5.8               1.0               6. 1            6.3                27.i
6.   topo-to  -  T ad/noted                        1127.4        1438.9        1130.5         10277.8       1021.3        1046.4        1306.6        1803.3           -0.8              -1.5              3. 7             6. 7               2 7. 7
7.   fReort. -SoP - TT odjoeted                     -24.2        -138.6         490.9         316.3          391.7         314.1         199.1          78.73                                                                                  12.7
9.   Total CooeomPtioo                             7746.7        3021.1        3426.0        3610.1         3750.4        3735.9        4212.9        5419.3            0.2               6.3               3.0             5.2                84.5
9.loI-et  ..                                        703.3         9051.0       1168.2          864.6         861.8         889.6        1160.4        1364.9           -3.2               5.1              6.5              6.1                79.6
to.  Ncaton   S-000108                               604.6         906.8         660.1          528.0         462.7         165.5         931.0        1491.1           -0.4             -1.4              13.3              9.9                16.3
11.   D-stlr Sa-iogs                                 727.4        1090.4         677.3          548.3         420.1         585.5         961.3        1486.6            4.6             -4.3              13.2              9.1                16.6
12.   GOP scoorret US $                             3474.1        4493.5        5324.1        6037.3        6946.1         7099.3       12352.9       20975.6           13.0              17.8             11.8             11.2
o!h--~ f GSP at 1976 pi.
1.   M-oof-torlg lodostry                            16.2          17.0          17.9           18.7          18.6          18.6          19.4          22.4            2.4              8.1               5.9              9.0
2. 4oti-l-r                                       37.9           38.3          37.3          36.0          33.3          33.0          33.5          31.0            2.3               3.1               3.6             4.2
3.   Other                                           45.9          44.6          44.0           45.3          46.0          46.3          47.1          46.5            3.3              5.2               3.2              5-6
1.   toport Prtts Ideo                              100.0         143.5         132.6         145.3         162.7          172.2         237.2         332.9          17.1              11.4               8.3              7.3
0.   loport PrI-e Stdor                             107.0         109.2         127.9         149.3         170.1         200.0          283.6         394.8          25.0              14.9               9.1             6.0
3.   Tort  of Trade                                 100.0         131.4         103.7           97.1         91.3          86.1           83.6          85.6
4.   GDP Defloto  (TAS2                             100.0         119.3         130.6         144.6         162.2         170.4          231.7         295.7          13.9              12.23              6.8              5.0
5.   hosrge Eorhsoge Oat
(IT  0th                                         2.39)0        2.416         2.598         2.675         2.667
1972-76          1976-80            1980-85            1906-90
D.   Selsotd Irdi--tor
1.  11206                                                          9.2               6.0                4.7                3.8
2.  Ioport tl-ittoty                                              -1.4               0.4                0.3               0.8
3.  Ansra. g  Doocetl   Sarioge R.te                              00.0              16.3               16.3              20.6
4.   oea ..ge NatIonal brings Rate                                17.0              10.3               16.2              21.0
5.  Mar0lial Natio-l S-i~8' Rat                                    2.41             -1.53               3.62               0.33
6.  Imports/SOP                                                   37.9              35.4               29.1              27.2
7.  1-veebeestGDY                                                 23.9              22.8              21.6               22.3
S.  Resoor-   Gap/GIT                                              3.21              6.6                5.3               2.2
t.   E-olo--mt                                                           1975              1976               1977              1970               1970
1.  Labor Port  Tota                                         6,400,000
2.  Wags Foployrs..r                                            819,105          007,000            902,900            911,600            972,300
P.   Poblit Fi-cor                                                    1972173          1973174            1974/75            1975(76            1976/77            1977/78            1978/79                1979/80
(T ol.ililor)7
1.  Retorts. Reoroo.                                              149.0             190.4              226.3              069.2             314.1              471.4              490.5                   590.5
2.  R- -rr ,c Eop-odttor                                          039.6             062.7              207.4             046.8              200.1              400.1              467.3                   527.2
3.  Re---eo  S.p.                                                  .9.4             .27.7              o18.9             s22.4              o290.              o71.3              o22.8                   +68.5
Ohe        II_s-cooo  Raripte                               0.6               0.3                -                  -                  6.4               0.0                0.5                     0.3
5.  F-rsg,  GIrc-                                                   0.5               3.2                8.0                7.0              10.1                9.0               13.3                    18.1
6.  Sorploc Avalblah     for FI-,oiog
Deso .cttpe-dlr-r                                    10.0              31.5               27.4               29.4               45.9              01.1               36.6                    96.9
7.  D--elpost topesdit-r                                           61.8              67.4               94.0             126.3              124.7              190.2              220.3                   236.9
0.  Oversl Reirlr                                                 -51.3             -35.9              -66.8              -96.9             -70.7             -139.1             -183.7                  -150.0
9. Fiocottg or the Dsfoiuft
Eoter-I 1,oco                                               24.7              14.5               20.1               43.7               29.8              43.2               91.0                    96.6
Lbo8-rr  borrootg                                          21.7              10.0               15.5               52.0              25.0               66.9               80.6                    36.6
Shor-t-te   horrooto                                        6.0               2.9               12.7              32.5               29.7              -29.3               60.5                    16.8
Soate                                                       0.02              -                  -                   
Chcogse to Icoh lalcot                                       +.5              o5.6              o18.4              .32.0               oO.8             -28.3               55.3-
J-ioaY 28, 1981



- 26 -
I C bl 61 0 n 80  <  bI Vl      0 @ O   O o > O O OAONEX   
o          000 0S                000     04        00'0'0000  Nv XR°    ,,      o  
S 4  000 N      0'0'            .00       00. s'                        N    N ri'3     ooor    
0N     0'0 '3          0'0 270 _''0 0                                   '  43_       00N
0HN00   _00   '3  .04         0).0   0  N OC o                 '      0'*N
-.           00N '3'73. O                    N     ''             0              N    N
0o 0_    0    0        N'O       0)       40 o   1--I@r  l qwox  1ooo  s
O       04    00        07      0        ..0'      .00 _,  0o                        N  ,n  
O                                   A000 0  No0.       '300004              o 000
2'               00'.7    00        0000    00'o 0                 00 0                     ON
0         2       .0       0000          0       .o  0AU0'° R000 e.0      o             0  <
0                 0 '333 0'03     r    0.0                   00 00.                       000DS °= lr<ooo  oov
o           0                0000 00 o              000    .700 v0 0 0                               000   t=~ < $           =v
_                               0    0    0    0 '0'            0        30            3             - 
O  .401)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00       '3 0 0 0               00        00         0.40          0s       o         _         oo_0< 
'30'~~~~ 0000000000                           00I0_      000000I
0 ~ ~ ~~       ~       ~~~__. .0  00 0 0  0     0    I     0         0 0 0
~~~~~~~~~~>O            00.00100r            sqDC        0.)  01.001-            0E      aoZu 
0t         40.4             -.0 *1 0)) -    0i 0                 1*             0   0
0  00-0001)0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0'  0O.IOO~~04O4  0-   000    0-.-100) 000.0
-  .-I~~~~  Wit  e0-   000    0                                N   0~~~~~~~~~
00'-    F                                  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  0-0.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0oo  C  0000  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o    22it'~~~~~~~~-~~'0'2Ft0  70    00000~~~~~~~~'
0 0 0   . C0 0 o                I-    _0 0 0



- 27 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt 1/ and Creditworthiness
Actual
1976           1977           1978           1979
A.   Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ million)
1.   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD:  End of Period)                           100.5           917.1          1290.7         1616.7
2.   Including Undisbursed                                                  1331.2         1700.4          2343.7         2841.9
3.   Public Debt Service                                                    -49.4            57-3          -121.9         -118.2
3.1  Interest                                                               -23.9           -32.4           -52.6          -68.2
4.   Other M & LT Debt Service
B.   Debt Burden
1.   Debt Service Ratio                                                       4.4             3.6             7.8            8.4
2.   Debt Service/GDP                                                          1.4            1.3             2.3            2.0
3.   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                                   6.6             6.1            10.5            8.4
C.   Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                          3.4             3.5             4.1            4.2
2.   Total Debt Service/Tatal DOD                                              7.1            6.2             9.4            7.3
D.   Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                                 15.9            16.1            17.5           23.3
2.   Net Transfer/Imports (incl. EFS)                                        11.6            12.1            14.2           19.6
3.   Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                        72.6           75.2             81.0           84.3
E.   Exposure
1.   IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                            37.0           44.5             14.6           10.7
2.   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                      15.0           22.6             20.1           16.4
3.   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                      24.2           37.7             25.2           22.2
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                                22.0            34.2            35.1           31 4
5.   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                    29.7           31.3             21.0           28.6
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                              31.5           33.2             22.1           29.9
v   Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
EAN CPIA
January 26, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of November 30, 1980
US$ Million
Loan or                                                            A'I?unt (Less Ctycellations)
Credit #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                              Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Twelve (12)Loans and sixteen (16) Credits fully disbursed   207.30              124.72
932       1974  Kenya        Highways                          29.00                        .04
477       1974  Kenya        Livestock                                         21.50      14.35
993       1974  Kenya        Tea Factories                     10.40                       1.01
(1093      (1975 (Kenya       (Group Farm Rehabilitation           7.50                    ( 7.50
( 537      (1975 (Kenya       (Group Farm Rehabilitation                          7.50    ( 3.71
1105       1975  Kenya        Sites and Services                 8.00                       5.21
1133       1975  Kenya        Transportation - Pipeline         20.00                        .26
1167       1976  Kenya        Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                         8.33
1184       1976  Kenya        Third Education                   10.00                      8.67
( 650      (1977 (Kenya        (Integrated Agri. Development                     10.00    ( 4.33
(1303-T    (1977 (Kenya        (Integrated Agri. Development            10.00             (10.00
1304-T     1977  Kenya        Wildlife and Tourism                     17.00              12.41
( 651      (1977 (Kenya        (Rural Access Roads                                4.00    (  .87
(1305      (1977 (Kenya        (Rural Access Roads                4.00                    ( 4.00
1389       1977  Kenya        South Nyanza Sugar                25.00                     10.04
( 692      (1977 (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                                 20.00      3.10
(1390-T     1977 (Kenya       (Third Agriculture                         5.00             ( 5.00
1438       1977  IDB          Third Industrial
Development Bank                20.00                     11.34
( 722      (1977 (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.00    ( 2.70
(1449      (1977 (Kenya       (Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                    (34.00
750       1978  Kenya        Small Scale Industry                             10.00       9.57
1520       1978  NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.00                     25.83
( 791      (1978 (Kenya       (Second Urban                                     25.00    (23.88
(1550      (1978 (Kenya       (Second Urban                      25.00                    (25.00
797       1978  Kenya        Fourth Education                                 23.00      21.56
1636       1979  Kenya        Sugar Rehabilitation              72.00                     69.65
1637       1979  Kenya        Rural Water Supply                20.00                     19.89
858       1979  Kenya        Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00      13.00
1680       1979  Kenya        Telecommunications                20.00                     18.47
1684       1979  Kenya        Highway Sector                    90.00                     89.97
914       1979  Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00      27.00
959       1980  Kenya        Second Integrated Agri. Dev.                     46.00      46.00
962       1980  Kenya        Baringo Pilot                                      6.50      6.43
1799       1980  KPC          Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00                       33.36
1817       1980  IDB          Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank       30.00                     30.00
999       1980  Kenya        Structural Adjustment Credit                     55.00      13.82
1045       1980  Kenya        Export Promotion                                  4.50       4.50
1051       1980  Kenya        Fisheries                                        10.00      10.00
Total                             737.20 32.00  413.72    634.81
of which has been repaid          33.70   -       1.90
Total now outstanding             703.50 32.00  411.82
Amount sold                 11.81
of which has been repaid 11.64    .17
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/           703.33 32.00  411.82
TOTAL undisbursed                           402.57 27.41  204.83    634.81
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of November 30, 1980
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                    Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                            93.40
638-EA   1969   EAHC       Harbours                 35.00          0.52
674-EA   1970   EARC       Railways                 42.40          0.03
865-EA   1972   EAHC       Harbours                 26.50          0.35
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications         32.50          0.61
1204-EA   1976   EADB       Development Finance    15.00            4.87
Total                                          244.80           6.38
of which has been repaid                      60.16
Total now outstanding                          184.64
Amount sold                       24.36
of which has been repaid    24.36            0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                      184.64
Total undisbursed                                6.38          6.38
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of November 30, 1980)
There are currently 34 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories Project: US$10.4 million Loan of
June 5, 1974; Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project. The standard of Kenya Tea Development
Authority's management continues to be high, and institutional improvements
together with strengthened staffing should further improve performance. An
economic analysis of the project indicates that despite substantial cost
increases the economic rate of return on investments in new tea factories is
over 40%. The Closing Date was postponed by one year to allow time for
completion of the twelve Bank-financed factories.
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$21.5 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing a serious constraint
to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues to be
very slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pas-
toral areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project continues to be kept under close review, and possible modifica-
tions in project design, in order to improve prospects for achieving objec-
tives for the sub-sector, are being discussed with the Government.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have ccome under
rehabilitation in the past several years for a variety of reasons: legal,
social, political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participat-
ing mixed farms and coffee estates is generally satisfactory. Coffee estates
are achieving recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding
areas cropped and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory
rate of financial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recom-
mendations of the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have
prompted Government to make a major review of its policies, and although
reaching a consensus has proved difficult, Government expects to take a
position on the large farm sector in the near future.  The Bank and the
Government are jointly reviewing the original project objectives to determine
whether they can still be attained. In the interim, no further recruitment of
mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's target long-term afforesta-
tion program of 130,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood plantations by
1980. The planting program is proceeding steadily; the cumulative total to
date is 37% below target, due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
conditions and poor and deteriorating management.  The building and labor
housing programs are both considerably behind schedule. There has been little
progress in the implementation of most of the covenants of the Credit Agree-
ment, particularly regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use
study, the gazetting of nature reserves, the study of stumpage ra,tes for saw-
logs, and the timely submission of audited statements of accounts. Government
is now providing adequate budgetary allocations. Procurement is proceed-
ing normally. Disbursements and total Project expenditure are both ahead of
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on July
20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
schedule. The Credit and the Loan are now fully disbursed. A Phase III
project has been appraised, with the emphasis moving to fuelwood plantations.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well and nucleus estate
development is 98% of target. Yields from outgrowers cane have been higher
than anticipated probably because of excellent and well distributed rainfall
and heavy fertilizer applications. About 20% of the drainage component has
been completed, and the benefits can already be seen. Although several
components are slightly behind schedule, progress is generally satisfactory.
Now that sugar production has started, certain weaknesses in project manage-
ment are apparent, particularly cane handling and transport. Consultants are
being employed to rectify this problem. Improvement is also expected once the
General Manager takes up residence at the mill site.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15, 1977;
Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC-s lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlemient
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No supple-
mentary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Some progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection
and appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drain-
age and irrigation. Coordination of project activities has improved consider-
ably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw execu-
tive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect. Negotiations are underway
between the Government and two of the four participating sugar companies to
resolve outstanding legal and financial issues related to their participation
in the Project. If these issues are not resolved in a mutually satisfactory
way, Project implementation may also be adversely affected.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date:  June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants have been
selected for the roads component.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1L980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal Project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However,
most Project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed by the end of 1980. Training has made good progress, but
training programs need to be expanded and accelerated. But whetlher Project
infrastructure, equipment and personnel wil be utilized in an optimal fashion
will depend on future Government funding of the Project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1980. Project implementa-
tion has begun satisfactorily, with staffing at more than 50% of the final
objective. Despite some problems with lack of water and housing (at Marigat)
and of vehicles, a number of research/demonstration sites have already been
established.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986.
This Credit became effective on July 2, 1980. IADP-II has inherited
the problems associated with the crop/credit component that have plagued
IADP-I. Part of the solution to these problems lies in upgrading the Ministry
of Cooperative Development by implementing the reorganization proposals for
MOCD. This has been delayed pending the outcome of the Governmental Commission
to review the Civil Service. IADP-II provides significantly more support than
IADP-I for infrastructure, including rural access roads, rural water supplies,
small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conservation. Most infrastructure
components are in the planning stage with construction due to start in 1981/82.
Progress is satisfactory though implementation of some components has been
constrained by budgetary cuts to the Work Plan imposed by the Treasury.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about two years behind
schedule and is now expected to be completed by about December 1982, six
months behind the Closing Date. Government is taking measures to counter
possible cost overruns and difficulties in making available their financial
contributions by, inter alia, phasing activities in the project implementation
period. Achievements of educational project objectives continue to be satis-
factory, especially in the field of curriculum development for basic education.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: US$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Physical implementation of the project is basically satisfactory
and is expected to be completed as scheduled. Revised total project cost
increased to about KShs 300 million representing approximately 17% cost
overrun in terms of local currency, which is manageable. The Technical
Assistance program as well as the pursuance of educational objectives under
the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0 mil-
lion Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Substantial project completion is now forecast about February 1981,
26 months behind schedule. Moreover, some lesser project elements will not be
completed before September 1981. Although there is a substantial cost overrun,
this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully committed to
earliest project completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local
currency, as needed. Regarding key personnel vacancies requiring the Ministry
of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation
and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Closing Date
has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
The loan became effective on January 24, 1980, nine months later
than expected, after new tariffs for rural water supply had been implemented
and key staff appointed or identified. The status of project components is as
follows: the construction of the Pproject's 30 water supply schemes has been
delayed a year; the bidding documents for strengthening the Ministry of Water
Development-s (MWD) construction capacity and the provision of transport are
being prepared; studies for expansion of MWD-s training facility have been
completed; construction is expected to be financed under the Fifth Education
Project (appraised in May 1980); management consultants assisted in the first
phase of MWD's reorganization and full implementation of the proposals is
expected by June 1981.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes
in design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints.
Construction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road (55 km) is about 70% finished with completion expected by mid-1981.
In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were
delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km)
road from the project. The construction of the remaining Kisii-Mogonga road
(27 km) is progressing satisfactorily and completion is expected in September
1980 or about four months ahead of contract schedule.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in Januarv 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow time
for completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the
pipeline. The project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
1US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review
meeting held in June 1979. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped and are now operational. By March 15, 1980, 481 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 71 km were gravelled. Annual output
averages 30 km per annum for all units, about 15 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District. Laborers have
been reluctant to work on RARP roads because the minimum daily wage paid is
well below that in the agricultural sector. To resolve these problems, the
Ministry of Works has considered increasing the minimum wage for RARP, and
has assigned a Swiss-financed engineer to supervise works in the Nakuru area.



- 37 -
A_NEX II
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Datet:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government s Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds haLs caused
a reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected
the project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The detailed engineering for the
subprojects originally scheduled to start in 1980 and 1981 are completed or
under preparation. The contract for the construction of Uplands-Limmuru (11
km) road was signed recently and the contracts for the Naivasha-Lanet (57 km)
and Mau-Summit-Kisumu (133 km) roads are expected to be signed shortly. The
road maintenance program for FY81 is about 12% below appraisal estimates due
to the financial constraints. The resealing of paved roads is now well
behind schedule due to the lack of bitumen. However, the Ministry of Transport
and Communications recently got permission for importation of bitumen, and
delivery is now in progress. In addition, MOTC is now in the process of
establishing four resealing units in order to catch up with the resealing
backlog.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980, Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This Loan became effective on November 18, 1980. This includes the
US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan (S-12-KE) which was refinanced under
this loan.     Progress under the Engineering Loan has been satisfactory.
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new drill rig and
accessories has been completed, and erection of the rig at the site is
expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous supplies and
equipment have been purchased under International Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Seventeen sub-
projects have been approved. As at November 30, 1980, US$19.9 million
had been committed and US$8.7 million had been disbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its slow
implementation rate and high arrears of clients. IDA is seeking Government
assistance to correct two deficiencies in KIE's finances subsequent to the
transfer of a loan portfolio from another DFC: (i) the lack of compensation
for the doubtful debts in the portfolio, and (ii) a debt/equity ratio much
in excess of the agreed ceiling since 1979. As of November 30, 1980, US$1.7
million was committed for subloans and some technical assistance (none for
estate construction), but only US$430,000, had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Loan became effective on August 21, 1980. No subprojects have
been approved under the Loan to date. As at November 30, 1980, no disburse-
ments had been made.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LENDING
Credit No. 999-KE/EEC Special Action Credit No. 56-KE - Structural
Adjustment Credits: US$55.0 million Credit and US$15.0 million EEC
Credit of April 10, 1980; Effective Date: June 9, 1980; Closing Date:
December 30, 1980
These Credits became effective on June 9, 1980 and the Closing Date
was postponed by three months to allow time for the full disbursement of the
Credits.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980, Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Bid award recommendations for all Bank-financed goods have been
approved. Initial delays in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a
year-s delay in project completion.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due primarily
to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000
plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastruc-
ture for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and construction of
infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin soon. Cost
recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now operational, but
designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule. One health center
is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against
its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank.
The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and
disbursements under the loan have started. Although loan disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly now that the construction activities are pro-
gressing satisfactorily, the Closing Date has been extended one year.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: I)S$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet app-;oval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study



- 40 -
ANNEX II
and the very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife (Con-
servation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.2 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is
given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA             (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                        0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                            1.7
Tanzania                        0.3
Total                       2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
Kenya                2.0
Tanzania             3.8
Uganda               1.9
Total                7.7
This Loan is now fully disbursed except for US$27,000 of the aLmount allocated
to Kenya; this amount is expected to be disbursed shortly.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$31.8 million of the loan has now been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1980. Some US$10.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$1.9 million. The closing date has been postponed to March 31, 1981 to
allow completion of the project.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
November 1980
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2         6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4       -       2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0      -       2.0
1980            Development Finance       Development           -      1.4      1.4
Company of Kenya Ltd.      Finance
Total Gross Commitments                   33.1    11.2    44.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    11.6      1.8    13.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC         21.5      9.4    30.9



- 44 -                      ANNEX III
KENYA - FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                     7 months
(b)  Prepared by Government/UNESCO
(c)  Date of first major presentation
to the Association:                       October, 1979
Identification Mission:                    April, 1979
UNESCO Preparation Mission:                September/October, 1979
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                         May, 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                              January 1981
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             July 1981
II. Special Association Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a)       The Borrower shall provide, through the PIU, annual
progress reports on the in-service training program of KESI
and the staff training programs for the University of Nairobi,
the Coast Agricultural Institute, and the KWRTI (paras. 45, 47,
49 and 52).
(b)       The Borrower shall also, through the DIT, carry out programs,
satisfactory to the Association, for the training of the instructors
required by the expansion of the Industrial Training Centers (para.
57).
(c)       The Borrower shall by September 30, 1981 provide a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for the establishment of a Steering
Committee, to prepare the Terms of Reference, and a timetable for
carrying out the Pre-investment Study on Business Education and
employ such experts and consultants necessary for carrying out the
study. The conclusions of the study would be submitted to the
Association for comments by June 30, 1983 (para. 58).
(d)       The Borrower shall appoint coordinating representatives to
the PIU from the Ministries responsible for the various components
of the Project not later than June 30, 1981 (para. 62).



