Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16009
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PATSEP)
(Credit 2398-GUI)
June 23, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACGP         Adnministration et Contr6le des Grands Projets
AGRIMA        Entreprise Nationale d 'Inportation de Materiel Agricole
BCRG         Banque Centrale de la Republiquie de Guinie
BONAGUI    Societe Anonyme de Production de Boissons Non-Alcoolisees de Guinie
CCEF          Cotoite de Coordination Economiquie et Financiere
CP            Comite de Privatisation
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DNMPPE       Direction Nationale des AMIarchis Publics et du Portefeujille de I 'Etaf
ENELGUI    Entreprise Nationale d'Electricite de Guiin~e
EPIC         Etablissenient public a caractere indcuistriel et commercial
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GHI           Grand Hf6tel de V'Independance
GHU           Grand H6tel de I 'Union
'DA           International Development Association
GOG           Government of Guinea
MF            Ministry of Finance
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
OBK           Office des Bauxites de Kiindia
OFAB          Office d 'anmenagenient des bauxites de Boke
OPG           Office de la Poste Guineneie
PE            Public Enterprise
PATSEP        Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
PREF          Economic and Financial Reform Program
PROSECO    SociJtJ des Procduits Secs el Oleagineux
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SAvIMCO      Societe d4Aninogemnent et de Construction
SAPP         Societe Aionyine ci Participation Publiqute
SBK          SociLUI des Bauxites de Kindia
SOGETRAG   Soci½te de Gestion cdes Transports de Guin,e
SOGUIPLAST SociJtj GuinJenne de Plastiques
SOGUITRO   Societe Guineenne de Travaux Routiers
SOMCAG       SocictW Mixte de nanutention de carburant aviation Guin~e
SONAFIC      Sociele Nationale de Fabrication de Filets de Peche et de Cordage de Guinie
SOPEC        Societe de Produits Explosifs el Chimziques
SOTELGUI   Societe des Tkl&comnnunications de Guiinme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PATSEP)
(Credit 2398-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- i
Evaluation  Summary -------------------------------------------------                                                                 ii
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background------------------------------------------                                                                               I
B.  Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives-------------------------------------------------------------- 2
C. Achievement of Objectives ----------------------------------------------------------------------- 3
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ------------------------------------------------------------- 6
E.  Project Sustainability------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7
F.  Bank Performance----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  7
G.  Borrower Performance ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8
H. Assessment of Outcome--------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
1.  Key Lessons Learned  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 9
PART II-- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  I        Summary of Assessments----------------------------------------------------------------10
Table 2         Related  Bank  Loans/Credits-------------------------------------------------------------12
Table 3         Project Timetable ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13
Table 4         Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated  and Actual -------------------------13
Table 5         Key Activities for Project Implementation  --------------------------------------------14
Table 6         Studies Included  in Project --------------------------------------------------------------17
Table 7A:  Project Costs------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18
Table 7B:  Project Financing-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 18
Table 8         Status of Legal Covenants --------------------------------------------------------------- 19
Table 9         Bank Resources   Staff Inputs-----------------------------------------------------------26
Table  1 0    Bank Resources   Staff Missions--------------------------------------------------------26
APPENDICES  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------27
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
C. Map IBRD 27383
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PATSEP)
(Credit 2398-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise Sector
Rationalization and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PATSEP) in Guinea for which Credit
2398-GUI, in the amount of SDR 5.4 million, was approved on June 2, 1992 and became effective on
September 15, 1993. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1995, the originally established closing
date. The Special Account was refunded on August 23, 1996, following which an amount of SDR
2,849,193.18 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mrs. Sherri Archondo and Mr. Pierre Monrn, Industry and Energy
Division, Western Africa Department, Africa Region. It was reviewed by Mrs. Silvia B. Sagari,
Division Chief, Messrs. H. Harald Burmeister, Portfolio Manager, and Emmenrch M. Schebeck,
Operations Adviser.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission of
September 11 to 17, 1995. A follow-up mission took place from March 12 to 15, 1996 to supplement
and clarify previously received information. The ICR is based on material in the Project file, including
the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision
reports, progress reviews and monitoring reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to its
preparation by participating in the ICR mission. The Borrower prepared its comment on the draft ICR
which is attached as Appendix B.






11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PATSEP)
(Credit 2398-GUI)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                             Cr. 2398-GUI
Credit Amount:                             SDR 5.4 million (US$ 7.3 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                             Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF), Ministry of
Justice (MOJ), Office des Bauxites de Kindia
(OBK), Office de la Poste Guineenne (OPG),
Socite des Telecommunications de Guin~e
(SOTELGUI), and Entreprise Nationale
d Electriciie de Guinee (ENELGUI).
Date effective:                            September 15, 1993
Date closed:                               December 31, 1995
Background
i.     Towards the end of 1985, the Government of Guinea (GOG) launched an ambitious Program
of Economic and Financial Reforms (PREF) supported by two IDA-assisted Structural Adjustment
Credits (SAC I and SAC 11). The PREF aimed to introduce the principles of a market economy in
Guinea. Under SAC 1, the GOG made significant progress towards this objective: it removed major
price distortions; improved the incentive framework; privatized or liquidated a large number of
public enterprises (PEs), and reduced the size of the civil service. During implementation of SAC 11,
a significant increase in non-mining revenues was achieved and the GOG improved the quality of its
administrative personnel, and removed economically unsound projects from its Public Investment
Program. Although the GOG divested 86 PEs (under SAC I and 11), further reforms were urgently
needed as many of the remaining "strategic" PEs continued to perform poorly and drained scarce
public resources. In 1990, subsidies for operations and equipment to the PE sector amounted to
US$9.4 million and US$7.3 million equivalent, respectively. In addition, indirect subsidies to the
non-mining PE sector were estimated at US$19.8 million equivalent . The GOG realized that
additional reforms were needed. The IDA-supported Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PATSEP) was prepared to assist the Government to
formulate and implement the second phase of its divestiture program and to rationalize the PE sector.
This is a conservative estimate which does not include pensions, severance pay, or additional costs to the
economy.



Project Objectives
ii.    The main objectives of the PATSEP were to support the GOG in the preparation and
execution of its PE reform program, which gave special emphasis to privatization and to
strengthening key institutions involved in program implementation. PATSEP was a technical
assistance (TA) project comprising two primary components: a divestiture component designed to
help the GOG formulate and implement the second phase of its divestiture program covering 46 PEs;
a capacity improvement component aimed to reinforce GOG's capacity to manage a streamlined PE
sector and, in particular, to apply more rigorous financial control and discipline.
iii.    Project objectives were clearly defined and were consistent with the Bank's strategy in
Guinea and with the needs expressed by the GOG. However, PATSEP's scope was overly ambitious
and unrealistic given past experience of the first phase of the divestiture program and the GOG's
limited technical capacity to implement reforms. Its institutional arrangements were complex and
demanding since the Project was to be implemented by two agencies which had no distinctive
advantages or proven expertise.
iv.    Main risks associated with the Project were three: (a) uncertainty of continued political
support for difficult reforms which included price increases and reductions in employment in some
PEs and reductions in the influence of some line ministries; (b) inability or unwillingness of Guinean
institutions to adapt to the necessary reforms; and (c) unavailability of counterpart funds. Although
the counterpart funds were made available in due course, PATSEP lacked the political support that
was essential for implementing difficult measures. Consequently, essential measures were often
delayed or were implemented in a half-hearted manner.
Implementation Experience and Results
v.     The achievement of PATSEP's objectives was negligible. Divestiture: Only six of the 46
PEs originally planned for divestiture were actually divested. (Seven additional PEs included in the
group were privatized without PATSEP assistance). Other enterprises were converted into national
companies, which are not divestitures. The sustainability of the PATSEP's modest accomplishments
is unlikely. Based on experiences of SAC I and II and the absence of a divestiture action plan, it is
uncertain whether implementation of the divestiture program will proceed, or that it will proceed
with high standards of transparency and competition. Capacity improvement: Without key sector
policy reforms, the modest improvements in PE sector management capacity may not last beyond the
Project. Minor achievements in the areas of restoration of financial discipline in the PE sector
(cross-debts settlement) will be difficult to sustain without the necessary support and commitment of
the GOG. The development and adoption of a set of legal reforms related to private sector
development under PATSEP was a substantial accomplishment; but the reforms will be sustainable
only if they are implemented and enforced.
vi.    The most significant factors that negatively affected the achievement of objectives were : (i)
weak commitment of the GOG to carry out its PE reform program; (ii) the lack of a comprehensive
execution plan for PATSEP, the divestiture program in particular; and (iii) weaknesses in the
institutional arrangements for implementing the PE divestiture component. The impact of these
factors was substantial and led to the Project's failure.
vii.    Bank performance during project identification and preparation was unsatisfactory. The
design of PATSEP was not optimal; no overall execution plan was prepared; neither was a



iv
divestiture plan nor a specific plan to support the capacity-building components prepared. Originally
designed to ensure transparency, the institutional arrangement for divestitures assumed that GOG
officials would give carte blanche to an independent entity, the Comite de Privatisation (CP -- a
majority of whose members were from the private sector) charged with executing the divestiture
program. It was overly optimistic to assume that the private sector members would devote their time
and effort to execute a Government project. The CP's contribution to the process was minimal.
viii.   The performance of the Bank at appraisal was unsatisfactory. To minimize the impact of
GOG's weak commitment and deficient capacity, the Bank set conditionalities for credit
effectiveness and a list of measures to be taken. The Bank should have followed up on its own
assessment of the first phase of the divestiture program and helped the GOG to understand that
technical assistance would not be sufficient to fully address the problems in the PE sector and that
the Project needed to include the adoption of substantial policy reforms. Bank performance during
supervision was initially unsatisfactory, but improved thereafter. The Bank tried to modify the
project implementation schedule to take account of the delay in the Project becoming effective. It
did not recognize, however, that the Borrower's lack of commitment as well as its limited capacity to
implement PATSEP were major issues that needed to be addressed. Until November 1994, the
project was rated "satisfactory" even though no significant progress was being made in
implementation.
ix.    The performance of the GOG during preparation was unsatisfactory.  First, it did not
comprehend fully the problems that plagued the PE sector, i.e., weaknesses in its management and in
the management of the PEs themselves, often the result of political interference, and that a drastic
change in Government policy toward the PE sector was required. Second, it did not realize that
implementation of such a change would require adopting a well-defined and timebound action plan,
supported by a strong political commitment. Only after these were in place, could the technical
assistance issues be addressed. The performance of the GOG in fulfilling the conditionalities for
Credit effectiveness was unsatisfactory; PATSEP was extremely slow in starting and faced major up-
front difficulties. The GOG's performance in Project implementation was also unsatisfactory.
Commitment to divest itself of the public enterprises stagnated as the Government continued to
maintain a portion of the ownership in most of the enterprises it divested. Some of the divestitures
were no more than accounting engineering; they accomplished only a change in legal status without
any real change in ownership or management.  In some cases, the divestiture strategies were
inappropriate. The GOG acknowledged that the Project was facing implementation problems, but it
failed to take appropriate actions to alleviate the problems.
x.     Project outcome is unsatisfactory. PATSEP failed to restructure the PE sector and did not
develop sector management capacity. Only some of the minor project activities were carried out and
these had no meaningful impact on PE sector rationalization and privatization.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xi.    For projects of this type the Bank should ensure that a solid action plan covering all the key
project activities, from the Project launch through implementation, be prepared by the Government
and be agreed upon with the Bank. Such a plan would define the sequence, priorities, modalities,
and time-frame of the planned activities. Issues should be discussed and resolved between the Bank
and the Borrower and no major activity should be left undefined or vaguely defined.



v
xii.   Two important lessons were learned from PATSEP:
(a)    The first lesson is that the Bank should carefully assess the Government's commitment to the
operation, and if this is found to be lacking, take the time and provide the resources to help
strengthen (nurture) it, even if this means delaying the operation. If this had been done, the Bank
would have realized that the GOG was not fully committed to PATSEP and it could have redeployed
its resources to another project elsewhere.
(b)    The second lesson is that, the Bank should improve its supervision capacity and strictly
apply the standardized performance criteria. Procedures should be in place to ensure consistency of
project supervision from one task manager to another and a smooth transition between task managers
before re-assignment, i.e., a joint mission to ensure a frank and full discussion and that all the actors
have at least one opportunity to meet and take accurate note of the project status and history as of the
time of change of task managers. Staff turnover and poorly managed transitional arrangements lead
to inconsistencies in assessing Borrower's performance and to mixed messages that could ultimately
be detrimental to the success of the project and the Bank's relationship with the Government.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (PATSEP)
(Credit 2398-GUI)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    In 1985, the GOG  launched an ambitious Economic and Financial Reform  Program  (PREF)
supported by two IDA Structural Adjustment Credits (SAC I and SAC 11). The PREF aimed to introduce the
principles of a market economy in Guinea. Under SAC 1, the GOG made significant progress towards this
objective: it removed major price distortions; improved the incentive framework; privatized or liquidated a
large number of public enterprises (PEs); and reduced the size of the civil service. During implementation of
SAC 11, a significant increase in non-mining revenues was achieved and the GOG made a concerted effort to
improve the quality of its administrative personnel and remove economically unsound projects from the
Public Investment Program. Substantial progress was achieved in the privatization and rehabilitation of the
power and oil-distribution sectors.  In addition, the GOG implemented judicial reforms to update the
commercial legislation to serve the needs of a market economy.
2.     Before the start of the PREF, the PE sector played a dominant role in Guinea. There were over 200
PEs, accounting for about 75% of modern sector employment (excluding the civil service), 92% of the total
domestic credit, and 38% of the gross domestic product (GDP). Most of the PEs were performing poorly and
imposed a financial burden on the national budget. Under SACs I and II, the GOG undertook the first phase
of its divestiture program covering 86 PEs in the commercial and productive sectors. The program reduced
the size of the sector, the financial burden on the budget, and share of PEs in the economy (PE work force
was reduced by 50% and PEs' share of GDP declined from 38% in 1985 to 20% in 1990). Although results
appeared impressive, an internal World  Bank Report2  revealed that the GOG did not have a clear
privatization strategy that was consistent with the macroeconomic policy adopted under the SACs. In the
absence of an appropriate legal and institutional framework, the privatization program was implemented on
an ad hoc basis without adequate procedures to ensure transparency. The GOG retained shares in many of
the privatized enterprises and some of them were granted monopoly rights and other privileges.
3.     Further reforms were urgently needed as many of the remaining "strategic" PEs continued to perform
poorly, and the PE sector continued to drain scarce resources and impede private sector development. The
amounts of operational and equipment subsidies to PEs such as: Socie;d dle Gestion des Transports de
Guinde, SOGETRAG  (urban transport company); Air Guinde (airline); and Entreprise Nationale
d'Electricitcd de Guinde (ENELGUI), remained high. In 1990, these subsidies amounted to US$9.4 million
and US$7.3 million equivalent, respectively. A conservative estimate of indirect subsidies to the non-mining
2 World Bank, "Lessons Learned from the Guinean Privatization Program," October 1991.



2
PE sector was about US$19.8 million equivalent. The IDA-supported Projet dAssistance Technique au
Secteur des Entreprises Publiques et Privatisation (PATSEP) was prepared to assist the GOG to carry on its
PE reform program.
B.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
4.     The main objectives of PATSEP were to help the GOG formulate and implement the second phase of
its Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization and Privatization Program which gave special emphasis to PE
privatization and strengthening key institutions involved in program implementation. The Project was to be
implemented over a period of three years.
5.     The PATSEP was a technical assistance (TA) project and it comprised two components:
(a) The divestiture component was designed to help the GOG formulate and implement the second phase
of its divestiture program covering 46 PEs. Assistance included: (i) services of a privatization
expert to help elaborate and implement the next phase of the divestiture program; (ii) short-term
consultant services for the privatization or liquidation of specific PEs; (iii) services of a legal advisor
to help the Ministry of Justice design and formulate a comprehensive program of reforms in the legal
system to foster private sector development; (iv) consulting services for the privatization or
restructuring of the Office des Bauxites de Kindia (OBK), Office de la Poste Guineenne (OPG),
Socidtd des Thldconrinunications de Guinee (SOTELGUI), and ENELGUI; and (v) services of
foreign and local experts to help the GOG and targeted PEs develop the reorientation programs for
redundant PE employees.
(b) The capacity improvement component aimed at reinforcing the GOG's capacity to manage a
streamlined PE sector and helping it to develop a sound regulatory framework for the privatized
public utilities. Assistance included: (i) services of technical experts in various fields: PE reform,
legal and judiciary, finance, management information systems (MIS), and regulations; (ii) studies for
additional reform measures; (iii) training staff of key Government agencies; (iv) purchase of
equipment and vehicles; and (v) financing of some implementation costs.
6.     Project objectives were clearly defined, consistent with the Bank's strategy in Guinea, and were not
modified during implementation. They were also well-adapted to the GOG's program which aimed to:
reduce the size of the PE sector; improve sector management through legal and institutional reforms;
restructure the finances of the principal PEs; and implement measures to mitigate the social impact of the
reform program.
7.     The project scope was overly ambitious. The divestiture component was not realistic since it did not
take into account the Bank's assessment (para.2) of the first phase of the GOG's PE reform program, which
was that GOG should adopt a sector development policy before undertaking the second phase of the
privatization program. While this component was not inherently complex, the institutional arrangements for
its implementation were complicated and demanding and proved ineffective. The divestiture component
required an enduring commitment of the GOG to implement measures that were unpopular with unions and
other groups with vested interests. It faced two majors risks: that the GOG's commitment to divestiture may
not be strong enough to overcome popular opposition and that no investors would want to buy the assets to
be divested.
8.     The capacity improvement component was not realistic eitlher; it recognized that the GOG had
limited managerial capacity but it was overly optimistic to assume that three years would suffice to



3
significantly improve GOG's management capacity. It relied overwhelmingly on expatriate TA (70% of total
cost), while resources allocated to direct training accounted for only 5% of the total project cost. The
substance of the formal and on-the-job training programs was vaguely defined or left to be defined as the
project was implemented. Like the divestiture component, this component was demanding on the GOG since
it required a major cultural change on the part of line ministries and in PEs as well. It faced the risk that the
TA would not succeed in transferring skills to the civil servants and PE managers or that they would not take
advantage of the technical assistance. The second risk was that opposition from the unions and other
pressure group would make improvement of the PE sector and its management impossible.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.     The overall achievement of objectives is judged negligible. Following is an assessment of the
achievements under each of PATSEP's two components and their specific undertakings.
1. Assistance in Development and Implementation of the Divestiture Program
(a) Legal and Institutional Framework
10.   The GOG was to: (1) prepare and adopt a new law on privatization and its application decree; (2)
create a Technical Privatization Unit in the Direction Nationale des Marches Publics el du Portefeuille de
l'Etat (DNMPPE) in the Ministry of Finance (MF); and (3) create the Comniir de Privatization (CP) to direct
the divestiture program. The GOG adopted new legislation on privatization almost a year behind schedule;
Law 93-037 promulgated on August 20, 1993 was acceptable to IDA. The application Decree followed in
October 1993. The Technical Privatization Unit was created in November 1994, and members of the CP
were appointed only in July 1995 just six months before the Project closed.
11.   The measures listed above were completed, more than two years behind the schedule agreed upon
during negotiations. Furthermore, the GOG did not enforce the new privatization legislation. It preferred to
empower various ad hoc commissions rather than give full authority to the CP as the law stipulated. In fact,
the CP, which became effective late in the Project and was not empowered to provide institutional
leadership, met infrequently, contrary to the Law on Privatization, that stipulated that it meet at least once a
month.  The institutional framework for divestiture became more complex with the creation of the
Addministration et Contrdle des Grands Projets (ACGP) in 1994 because of the overlapping responsibilities
of different Government agencies. The Project made a negligible contribution to the development of an
appropriate legal and institutional framework, and the few modest steps taken were belated.
(b) Preparation and Implementation
12.   The GOG was to prepare and adopt a detailed divestiture program, one that would provide a "road
map" for the second phase of the program to prevent the errors and shortcomings of the previous divestiture
program which had been carried out in a haphazard manner and lacked transparency. Although the Council
of Ministers adopted the list of 46 PEs to be divested in March 1992, the GOG did not follow through with
the preparation of the action plan that was originally due on December 31, 1992. The action plan was
prepared only in July 1995 and was never adopted by the GOG.



4
13.    Divestitures were carried out by technical ministries or ad hoc structures and were often
implemented without transparency and competition, contrary to the law3. This state of affairs continued to
the end of the Project. The PATSEP contributed directly to the divestiture of six enterprises of the 46
originally envisioned.4 Seven additional PEs included in the list were also privatized without the assistance
of the Project.  Other enterprises were converted into national companies, which are not divestitures.6
PATSEP's contribution to the preparation and implementation of the divestiture program was therefore
negligible.
(c) Legal Reforms Related to Private Sector Development
14.   Activities carried out under this subcomponent included: (I) a workshop to identify needed reforms;
(2) preparation of a detailed reform program; and (3) a training program for legal professionals. The Project
financed consultants to prepare and implement a detailed reform program aimed to strengthen the legal
system and train members of the legal profession. The program implemented by consultants included:
establishment of a training center that became operational in January 1995, modification of the Law on
Magistrates, and the creation of a Council of Magistrates. Reforms pertaining directly to enterprises
included a review of the structure of the Ministry of Justice, reorganization of the Tribunals, and
modifications of the Economic Code. The Project contributed szubstantially to the development of legal
reforms related to private sector development.
(d) Corporatization of OBK with a View to its Eventual Privatization
15.   The GOG was to: (1) create an inter-ministerial committee to oversee the corporatization of Office
des Bauxites de Kindia (OBK); (2) negotiate commercial contracts and undertake marketing research on
commercial diversification; (3) prepare and sign a performance contract; and (4) reorganize the company.
The Project effectively supported the corporatization of OBK into the Soci0te; des Bauxites de Kindia (SBK).
SBK financed a study on its reorganization and on market diversification. SBK management proposed a list
of rehabilitation measures to be carried out but the GOG never responded to these proposals. As a result, no
managerial changes or reorganization measures were effected. No performance contract was prepared nor
were negotiations for the commercial contract conducted. Implementation of this project activity was
negligible.
(e) Restructuring and Privatization of OPG and SOTELGUI
16.   This subcomponent was a complement to the Post and Telecommunications Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 2444-GUI), which provided resources and the framework for the restructuring of the sector.
PATSEP was to finance: (I) preparation of the Office de la Poste Guineenne (OPG) performance contract;
(2) SOTELGUI's privatization study; and a utility agreement. The preparation of the draft performance
contract for OPG; and a privatization study and the preparation of the cahier des charges for SOTELGUI
3 Societe Guin&enne de TravauLx Routiers (SOGUITRO), Soci&ei de Gestion des Transports de Guinee
(SOGETRAG), and Soci&td des Til&corn,nunications de Guinee SOTELGUI.
4 SAMCO; SOMCAG; ENELGUI; GHI; SOTELGUI; movie theaters
5 SONAFIC; AGRIMA; PROSECO; GHU; BONAGUI; SOPEC; and SOGUIPLAST
6 OFAB and PHARMAGUINEE.



5
were carried out under PATSEP and their corporate management systems and procedures established.
However, OPG's performance contract was not implemented and its financial condition has remained
worrisome; FY94 operating losses exceeded GNF 431 million. Further efforts are needed to improve OPG's
operations and management. Privatization of SOTELGUI was conducted by an ad hoc committee.
Moreover, the privatization joint-venture agreement was signed with an investor who did not participate in
the bidding process and the terrns of the agreement were different from the bidding documents.
Achievement of this key activity was partial.
(f) Reorientation Program of Redundant PE Employees
17.    Over 2,500 employees were likely to be declared redundant as a result of the PE sector reforms. The
Project was to support: (1) creation of the Reorientation Program Unit in the DNMPPE; (2) preparation of a
detailed action plan; and (3) development of the reorientation program. La Section Appui de la Division
Disengagement de l'Etat was created in the DNMPPE with the mandate to formulate redeployment
programs. But no such program was developed before the closing of PATSEP. The Project financed a
human resource assessment study of five PEs, including SOTELGUI, Air Guinete, SOGETRAG,
SOGUITRO, and OBK. The assessment was to lead to the preparation of a broad analytical framework that
could be tailored to the needs of each PE. Since none of the targeted PEs decided to reduce their work force
no detailed action plan or reorientation program  was developed  The Project's contribution to the
reorientation program was negligible.
2. PE Sector Management Capacity Improvement
(a) Capacity Development of DNMPPE
18.    This component was to support: (1) reorganization of the MF, reinforcement of the DNMPPE, and
appointments of the Director of the DNMPPE and the Chief of the Portfolio Division; (2) adoption of a
Decree defining the structure and responsibilities of the DNMPPE; and (3) preparation of a training program
for DNMPPE staff. In November 1994, the MF was reorganized; the structure and responsibilities of
DNMPPE were redefined. DNMPPE Director was appointed in September 1994 but no one has been
appointed to head the Portfolio Division. No training program for DNMPPE staff was prepared but the
PATSEP financed consultants who provided training to the DNMPPE staff in project management and
enterprise diagnosis and valuation. Implementation of this key activity was onlypartial.
(b) Legal Reform
19.    The Project was to support adoption of: (I) the Application Decree of the Law on PEs; (2) the
classification of PEs according to the new law: (3) the standard Statutes for Etablissements publics a
caractere industriel et commercial (EPIC) and Societes anonymes a participation publiquie (SAAP); and (4)
the new statutes for the PEs. The PATSEP financed consultants who successfully formulated the Decree and
the Statutes (para. 14). Achievement of this component was substantial.
(c) Restoration of Financial Discipline in the PE Sector
20.    PATSEP was to support: (1) updating of the status of the cross-debts as of December 31, 1992,
between the GOG and PEs and between PEs; (2) adoption of a cross-debts settlement program; (3)
compensation of the cross-debts; (4) settlement of the remaining cross-debts; (5) adoption of the GOG's
Policy on the rationalization of financial relations between the State and PEs and its implementation; and (6)



6
development of a management information system (MIS) for the PE sector. It was only in late 1994 that the
DNMPPE began to tackle the problem of the cross-debts in the water, power, and transport sectors. The
GOG and the PEs in these sectors settled some of the cross-debts in February 1995 and agreed on a timetable
for the settlement of the balance. They also agreed to pay their bills in due course. However, no program or
policy was implemented to ensure that these modest achievements would be sustained. No MIS was
developed that would allow monitoring of the financial situation and performance of the PE sector, although
DNMPPE staff collected some financial information for selected PEs. The contribution of the PATSEP to
the restoration of financial discipline in the PE sector was negligible.
(d) Regulatory Framework for Public Utilities
21.    The Project was to support the formulation and implementation of a policy framework on the
regulation of public utilities. This was not carried out.
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Subject to Governmental Control
22.   The most significant factors that affected PATSEP's outcome were under GOG control. The lack of
Government commitment and the absence of an execution plan for PATSEP and particularly the divestiture
program, were detrimental to project implementation This led to inadequate focus and direction for the GOG
to carry out all of the project activities.
23.    First, in the absence of GOG's strong commitment to the project objectives, credit effectiveness was
delayed and some key project activities were never implemented. For example, the transparency in the
divestiture process was absent because the CP was not operational; divestiture operations were carried out
instead by ad hoc commissions. The privatization of SOTELGUI is a case in point. Second, the divestiture
action plan which, according to the Implementation Program (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit
Agreement-DCA), should have been prepared and adopted by the GOG and approved by IDA by December
31, 1992, was drafted only in July 1995 and never finalized. Third, the institutional framework for
divestiture was needlessly complex and hampered by unclear responsibilities among different agencies;
project implementation was assigned two agencies, i.e., the CP established as an independent entity (with
the majority of its members from the private sector who had no incentive to direct a Government-sponsored
program) and the DNMPPE in the MF. Fourth, less than optimal divestiture strategies were implemented
outside the legal framework. For instance, SOGUITRO was sold to its employees by a presidential decree,
without proper evaluation, pricing analysis, and competitive bidding procedures required by law. Air Guinge
was liquidated, although it resurfaced almost untouched and its operating losses continue to drain public
finances; the GOG still opposes undertaking a study to analyze its viability. The impact of these factors on
the failure of the Project was substantial.
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
24.    The inadequate quality of the Bank's work in the preparation, appraisal, and supervision of PATSEP
affected project outcome substantially. During project preparation (financed under a Japanese grant of about
US$1.5 million equivalent), the Bank did not provide the intellectual leadership or the guidance needed by
the GOG to understand fully the nature of its PE sector problems that in turn led to a faulty project design. If
the Bank had performed its role properly, the project would have gone no further until the problems were
well understood. Since the GOG was late in fulfilling agreed upon conditionalities, Credit effectiveness was
delayed by nearly a year. This should have prompted the Bank to question GOG's commitment and its



7
ability to carry out the Project. But the Bank did not. Instead, the Bank declared the Credit effective even
though no PE divestiture plan had been prepared by the GOG. The need for a divestiture action plan was
raised only in November 1994. The Bank also overlooked the fact that the training program on which the
capacity building component was based, was never elaborated and remained vaguely defined. The Bank
acknowledged this as an issue to be resolved as late as November 1994, when the DNMPPE requested the
Bank's non-objection to its operating budget that included training abroad and study tours.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.    The sustainability of the PATSEP's modest achievements is unlikely. In the absence of a divestiture
action plan, it is uncertain whether implementation of the divestiture program will proceed, or that it will
proceed with high standards of transparency and competition. It is also unlikely that the existing institutional
arrangement for divestiture is sustainable. Management of the PE sector is entrusted to DNMPPE, but it has
no special expertise and no distinct advantage in the areas of divestiture and portfolio management. Without
defined PE sector policies, the modest improvements in the PE sector management capacity may not last
beyond the Project. The adoption of a set of legal reforms for the development of the private sector may be
sustainable, only if the legal reforms are implemented, the laws enforced, and the courts allocated adequate
resources for their enforcement. Minor achievements in the restoration of financial discipline in the PE
sector (cross-debts settlements) will be difficult to sustain without the necessary support and commitment of
the GOG. As for the measures that were not carried out during project implementation: development of a
reorientation program and the elaboration and implementation of a policy framework on the regulation of
public utilities, it is unlikely that they will be carried out.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
26.    Bank performance during identification and preparation was unsatisfactory. The Bank overestimated
the GOG's willingness to carry out the needed reforms even though the GOG provided no sign that a sector
development policy was under preparation. Although the Bank had carried out its own assessment of tlhe
first phase of the PE divestiture program, it failed to follow up on its own judgments. It could have provided
assistance to the Borrower to address the issue of industrial policy and could also have assisted in developing
a detailed execution plan for the divestiture program, that would list and spell out the tasks, responsibilities,
timetables, performance indicators, and costs of the training and capacity-building components. This could
have provided the GOG with the essential support to improve its management capacity and with the
objective tools to monitor progress during PATSEP's implementation. The performance of the Bank during
appraisal was unsatisfactory. It implicitly acknowledged that GOG's commitment was weak and, instead of
proposing specific steps to achieve stronger commitment, it proposed a list of "dos and don'ts". The Bank's
appraisal did not focus on the institutional arrangements; the capacity of the DNMPPE and the CP to carry
out their responsibilities; or the selection of PEs slated for privatization. Finally, the Bank should have
assisted the GOG to understand better the nature of the PE sector problems and should have proposed a
program of substantial policy reforms.
27.    Bank performance during supervision was initially unsatisfactory, but improved thereafter. After a
long-awaited Credit effectiveness, the Bank and the GOG met in November 1993 to discuss the weaknesses
of the institutional framework, review the activities to be financed under the Project, and prepare a new time
frame for implementation. Agreement was reached to shift the emphasis and priority from the divestiture to
the capacity-building component and to rely on short-term consultants (rather than on long-term consultants
as originally planned) for training and coaching. A revised program was prepared for the remainder of the
project implementation and a one-day launch seminar was held in April 1994; it received extensive media



8
coverage and was attended by Bank staff and about 90 Guineans. Clear project performance indicators were
still not defined.
28.   Project implementation was rated "satisfactory" for nearly a year (until November 1994), despite the
absence of a divestiture plan and significant delays in beginning key Project activities. By September 1994,
most of the activities of the revised program schedule were either delayed, not being implemented
(settlement of cross-debts, implementation of an MIS), or being implemented in contravention of the law
(divestiture program). A November 1994 Bank supervision mission found serious divergence between the
situation "on the ground" and the agreements contained in the Project documents. It downgraded Project
ratings to "unsatisfactory" and indicated to the GOG that there were grounds for suspension of
disbursements. Another Bank mission attempted to resolve these major implementation problems. Although
the GOG was encouraged to propose changes to the Project scope, it felt that none was required and agreed
to start implementing the key project activities as originally planned. The Bank in turn, agreed to give the
GOG its full support and provided it with advice on immediate actions which ought to be taken, including the
selection of a consultant to prepare the divestiture plan. On-going support continued through September
1995, at which time it became clear that the GOG would not be able to fulfill its commitments. After serious
consideration, the Bank decided not to extend the Project closing date as requested by the GOG. Therefore,
the Project closed as planned on December 31, 1995.
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   The performance of the GOG in the project preparation was unsatisfactory. Despite a massive dose
of TA largely financed by a PPF (SDR540,000) and a grant from the Government of Japan, the GOG did not
recognize the basic problems that plagued the PE sector, i.e., weaknesses in its management and in the
management of the PEs themselves, and that a drastic change in Government policy toward the PE sector
was required. The adoption of a comprehensive action plan, supported by a strong political commitment were
essential for PATSEP to succeed. Only after these were in place, should the TA issues have been addressed.
30.   Performance of the GOG in implementation was unsatisfactory. The GOG did not have the
commitment needed to carry out a difficult set of measures; it had no strategy and no action plan for either
the divestiture or the capacity-building components. Commitment to PE divestiture stagnated as the GOG
continued to maintain a portion of the ownership in most of the divested enterprises. Some of the operations
were no more than accounting engineering, privatizations which changed the legal status without any real
change in ownership or management. In some cases, the divestiture strategies were not appropriate.
SOGETRAG and Air Guinee, which were completely bankrupt and should have been liquidated, continued to
operate (at a substantial drain on the budget) while being tendered for sale, with no prospect of attracting any
credible buyer. GOG did not prepare a detailed plan for the capacity-building component and even though
acknowledging that the Project was facing implementation problems, it did not take appropriate remedial
actions. These factors led to the failure of the Project.



9
H.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.    Project outcome is unsatisfactory and not sustainable. PATSEP was poorly prepared and it failed to
achieve its major objectives; it did not yield nor is it expected to yield substantial development results. Its
implementation had significant shortcomings. Only some of the minor project activities were carried out and
they had no meaningful impact on PE sector rationalisation and privatization. In 1995, substantial efforts
were made to empower the GOG and to provide support and assistance to ward project implementation.
Expectations were not realized, project implementation showed no signs of progress and PATSEP was closed
on December 31, 1995.
I.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.    Two important lessons were learned from PATSEP:
(a)    The first lesson is that the Bank should carefully assess the Government's commitment to the
operation, and if this is found to be lacking, take the time and provide the resources to help strengthen
(nurture) it, even if this means delaying the operation. If this had been done, the Bank would have realized
that the GOG was not fully committed to PATSEP and it could have redeployed its resources to another
project elsewhere.
(b)    The second lesson is that, the Bank should improve its supervision capacity and strictly apply the
standardized performance criteria.  Procedures should be in place to ensure consistency of project
supervision from one task manager to another and a smooth transition between task managers before re-
assignment, i.e., a joint mission to ensure a frank and full discussion and that all the actors have at least one
opportunity to meet and take accurate note of the project status and history as of the time of change of task
managers. Staff turnover and poorly managed transitional arrangements lead to inconsistencies in assessing
Borrower's performance and to mixed messages that could ultimately be detrimental to the success of the
project and the Bank's relationship with the Government.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR RATIONALIZATION AND
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2398-GUI)
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
11            11               i     Not
A. Achievement of objectives I Substantial         Partial       Negligible    applicable
l                   I  (i)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I (% I  () 1 
Macroeconomic policies                                               ii 
Sector policies                !      o                       I o_
Financial objectives
Institutional development      I                              I                      0
Physical objectives                   E                       I      E               0
Poverty reduction              I              I               I
Gender concerns                !      o          !   oo
Other social objectives        I              I               I      0               D
Environmental objectives                                             E l             0
Public sector management       !      o                              0
Private sector development         !  o       !               ! 
Other (specify)                               I °
I   I                     r-w~~~~~~



I1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (cont'd)
B. Project sustainability       Likely      i      Unlikely             Uncertain
I    Ol                     0   _X             _EO
Highly
C. Bank performance      '   satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                             0 
Preparation assistance   !        o                   o!
Appraisal                         El                  El                   0
Supervision                        l °°                                   0.
D. Borrower performance         Highly
satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                       E                   El                   0
Implementation                                                  I          0
Covenant compliance               El                  El                   0
Operation (if applicable)
1    Highly                  I                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
El         El0   I7E



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                         Purpose                           Year of    Status
approval
Preceding operations:
Cr. 1234 Industrial   This Project was the first IDA operation in the industrial  1982   {Completed
Rehabilitation and    sector in Guinea. The objectives of the project were to:
Promotion            i create within the Ministry of Industry a capacity for  l
industrial sector policy formulation and planning; support the
Government's efforts in transferring some of its
l  responsibilities for national production; import substitution   l
land employment creation from the public sector to the
private sector; and improve the performance of state-owned
l  industrial enterprises through selective rehabilitation  l
l  programs and relaxation of Government controls, thereby    l
increasing foreign exchange earnings, employment creation
and regional development.                             l
Cr. 1559 Technical    Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Planning and       1985   !Completed
Assistance             International Cooperation to conduct a program designed to  l
improve macro-economic planning and collection of basic   l
Ieconomic data, training, and technical assistance.    I           l
Cr. 1659 SAC I        To support the adjustment program.                         1986    Completed
Cr. 1926 SAC II       To support the second phase of the Government's reform     1988    Completed
program.                                              l           l
Cr. 1963 Second       To support long-term institution building while providing  1989   !Completed
Economic             I short-term responses to current weaknesses in economic
Management            management.                                            l
Cr. 2148 Private      To improve business environment in Guinea, eliminate   i  1990   [Completed
Sector Promotion     I constraints to business and promote new investments.  I          I
Following operations  l
Cr. 2653 Financial    To strengthen monetary, regulatory, supervisory and judicial  1995   Active
Sector               I environment; develop a bridge between informal and formal
l  sectors to increase the scope of the financial sector, and to   l  I
build upon the human resource base and improve
institutional capacity.



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Planned date          Date actuaViatest
,  ,    estimate
Preparation                                   February 1991           February 1991
Appraisal                                      March 1992              March 1992
Negotiations                                    May 1992                May 1992
Board presentation                                                    June 23, 1992
Signing                                                               August 6, 1992
Effectiveness                                September 1992         September 15, 1993
Loan closing                           :    December 31, 1995       December 31, 1995
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
__________________________________ [FY93         FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate                                3.84       6.56      7.30      7.30
Actual                                             0.00       1.17     2.79
Actual Cumulative                                  0.00       1.17     3.96
Actual as % of estimate                           00.0%      17.8%    38.2%      *
Date of final disbursement



14
Tables 5: Key Activities for Project Implementation
Project Components &   I         Key Activities          Time  I      Technical       I          Expected Results
Objectives                                      i Table         Assistance      i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       I
Assistance in                                                  I
development &           I                                      I
implementation of the                                I         I
divestiture program     I                            I         I                     I
Development of Legal   I >  Preparation &               3/92 -   Privatization Expert  Installation of the Legal &
and Institutional        i Adoption of the Law on the    9/92    (6/92-5/94)         i Institutional Framework Defining the
Framework for the         Divestiture Program                                          Procedures & Methods of the
Divestiture Program     I                                        Legal Advisor       iDivestiture Program
(6/92-5/94)         I Developed but not implemented
=> Preparation &              3/92 -
i Adoption of the Application i  9/92  i
Decree of the Divestiture    1       1                     1
>   Creation of the           6/92                          Development of the Technical
I Technical Privatization Unit I                            I Capacity for the Implementation of the
in DNMPPE                            I                     I Divestiture Program
Creation of the           9/92                          Creation of the Independent Executive
Privatization Committee    I         I                      Agency for the Divestiture Program
composed ofthe             I         I
I Representatives of the     I        I                     I DNMPPE and CP were created but
Private Sector and the                                      never played their role
Government
Preparation &           I >  Preparation of the       I 3/92 -   Privatization Expert  A Detailed Divestiture Program
Implementation of the    I Detailed Divestiture         12/92   (6/92-5/94)          i Defining the Sequence of the
Divestiture Program       Program and its Adoption                                     Implementation Pro-ram with the List
I                 I         I ~~~~~~~Legal Advisr   IpeettoPrgawihheLt
i by the Govemment          I                               i o  Showing the Priorities, Modalities &
(6/92.5/94)          Timetable
I  Short-term Studies  i Not finalizedl
I        I l   | (92-95)
l  Approval of the Detailed     1/93-
I  Divestiture Program by IDA I  3/93   1
I   Implementation of the     92/95                         Privatization & Liquidation of the PEs
i Divestiture Program                                       I I  I according to the Detailed Divestiture
I  l  l   |          | Program
Monitoring &              92/95                          Implementation Program &
Adjustment                 I         I                     I Adjustment
Legal Reform Related to      Workshop                I 11/92   Legal Advisor         I Development ofthe Legal system
private sector           I                           V           l1/92-9               required for private sector
development                                                       1 9 2( 9/93)         development, particularly thejudicial
I                    I |  s system



15
Tables 5: Key Activities for Project Implementation (cont'd)
I        II
Project Components &   I       Key Activities        Time        Technical                Expected Results
Objectives        I                          a Table i    Assistance      I
> Training program of the                               Activities related to the legal
I Legal Professional       I                            I rerorms have been succesfully
I |  j              | implemented
Incorporation of OBK    I > Creation of an Inter-    I 6/92  I Management Expert  Creation of the New Company
with a View to its     aMinisterial Committee in           '99                    endowed with full autonomy
eventual Privatization  charge of the incorporation          (92/93)             Done
i of OBK                   I        I                   I
=' Negotiation on           6/92     Marketing Expert    Normalization of the Commercial
i Commercial Contract and   i       i (6/92)            i Relations with the Client and
Marketing Research on               Financial Expert    Diversification of the Export Market
I Commercial Diversification I      I (6/92)            I
=' Preparation ofa draft    3/93    Management Expert  Reorganization & Installation of the
performance contract     e         I (92/93)           i Management System required for the
new company
|   Conclusion of the       5/93    Accountants
performance contract     I         i (92/93)           I
X Reorganization            92/93   Information Expert   Not done
I        I g (92/93)
Restructuring and       => OPG                    I  3/93  ' Mgt.                Restructuring of OPG
Privatization of OPG and
SOTELGUI                Preparation of a draft              (10/92-12/92)        Prepared but not implemented
performance contract     l         I
Conclusion of the           4/93
performance contract     l
|   SOTELGUI                9/93-   Privatization       Restructuring and Privatization of
12/93  1 Consultants      I SOTELGUI
Privatization study                                     Done
Preparation of a draft      9/92    Mgt. Consultant
"cahier des charges"     I         I (10/92-12/92)
Conclusion of the "cahier   4/93
i des charges"             l        l
Reorientation Program    I > Creation of the Re-     6/92  I Expert in Re-     I Development of the Reorientation
for the Redundant PE    i orientation Program Unit in      i Orientation Program   Program mitigating the Social Impact
Employees              I DNMPPE                   I        I (                   of the Divestiture Program
I   (9/92-5/95)
'Local Expert
(9/92-5/92)       1Notdone
l> Preparation of the       10/92
I Detailed Action Program    I      l
=> Development of the Re-    92/95
l  orientation Program     l        l



16
Tables 5: Key Activities for Project Implementation (cont'd
I                   ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I
Project Components &   I         Key Activities         Time         Technical                  Expected Results
Objectives                                     i j Table  i    Assistance
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. PE Sector Management I                                        I
Capacity Improvement
Capacity development of |   Decree on the            I  6/92    Principal Consultant  Integration of the Responsibilities for
DNMPPE                  iReorganization of MPF,    I            (the PE Sector Management Split
Reinforcing DNMPPE and               i (     -              Between the former MPCI and the
nominations of the Director                               I I  I Former MEF into the New MPF
of DNMPPE and the chief                                   I D                                   I
of the division of the                                      Done but never implemented to b
; Portfolio  j       ' operational
PortfolioI
=> Ministerial Decree         6/92                          Definition of the Structure and the
Defining the Structure and                                I Responsibilities of DNMPPE
the Responsibilities of   :
' DNMPPE                                                                                          I
=' Training Program for the    6/92    Training Program     Development of DNMPPE Staff
iDNMPPE Staff               I         i(92/95)             i capacity to Implement
Legal Reform              => Adoption of the         I 4/92    Legal Advisor        I Application of the PE Law Defining-
Application Decree of the                                  the relations between the State and the
Law 025                    I                   :           PEs, giving the PEs Financial &
I                              I |   |  " Managerial Autonomy
!> Adoption of the List of    7/92  :                       Effective application of the PE Law to
the PEs according to the PE                               i I the PEs
Law                        I         I
>  Adoption of the standard          I
Statute for EPIC and SAAP  '                                                                    I
=> Adoption of the new         10-                         Legal reforms were prepared and
Statutes for the PEs       I 12/92  I                      implemented by consultants
Restoration of the      : => Updating the cross-debts   3/93   I Financial Expert     Settlement of the cross-debts
Financial Discipline in   i of the PEs as of December          I
the PE Sector           :31, 1992
I                    I |   s  | Done on an ad hoc basis
=> Adoption of the cross-     5/93
debts settlement program   I         I
- Compensation of the        93/95
i cross-debts               I         I
> Settlement of the          93/95
remaining cross-debts                                                                           I
> Adoption of the Policy     11/92                         Reduction & rationalization of the
ion Rationalization of the    I       I                    i direct and indirect subsidies
financial relations between         I
the State & PEs and its    '         '                     Not done
Implementation Program              I



17
Tables 5: Key Activities for Project Implementation (cont'd
I  I       - I                I
Project Components &           Key Activities      : Time  :       Technical                 Expected Results
Objectives                                    i i Table  i    Assistance    I
|Imrplementation of the     92/95                         Installation of PE Sector Management
Program                            I I                  I System for the Monitoring of PE
I        I |                  | Sector Performance
|> Development of the       92/95   MIS Expert            Not done
a Mgt. Infornation System of I       a (10/92-5/94)       I
the PE Sector
Regulatory Framework   '=> Elaboration of the Policy I 92/95   Regulation Expert    Development of the Regulatory
for the Public Utilities    i Framework of the               I 10/92-9/94          Framework for the Public Utilities
Regulation                           (        4)          Ensuring efficient operation of the
I        I                    i | Public Utilities in the context of their
iPrivatization
=> Application of the Policy   92/95                      Not done
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined            Status             Impact of study
at
I appraisaUredefined  t
Divestiture Action Plan    provide guidance to    draft report was       Never finalized and
carry out the         I issued in July 1995  I will not be
divestiture programs  i                      i implemented
Audits of Project                                  completed             non-qualified
Account and Special                              l
Account for 1994



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USSM)  Actual/latest estimate (US=M
Item
Local   Foreign             Local  Foreign
costs     costs    Total    costs    costs! Total
Support to the Divestiture Program     0.52       2.59      3.11
PE Sector Management Capacity          1.27       2.59      3.86          I
Improvement                        !                    I        I
PPF Refinancing                        0.05       0.30      0.35          I
Base Cost                              1.84       5.48      7.32
Physical Contingencies                 0.09       0.24      0.33
Price Contingencies                    0.26       0.22      0.48 !        !
Total Contingencies                    0.35       0.46      0.81 !                 !
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)      2.19       5.94      8.13           !
Table 7B: Project Financing
Item                 Appraisal estimate (USSM)  Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
costs     costs    Total    costs    costs    Total
I    ,         ,     .           ,         ,     .. I~~~~~I 
Government                            0.60      0.23     0.83            I
IDA                                   1.59      5.71     7.30
Total                                 2.19      5.94     8.13            I        I



19
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Coven:nt Present              Description of Covenant                          Comments
Agreement     Type    Status
Section    l        I       I
I       e        I-- 
3.01. (a)         5       NC    The Borrower to carry out the Project with      Project implementation began 15
I        I        I |due diligence and efficiency and in conformity I months later than agreed, due to the
I E      W        Wwith appropriate administrative, financial,  i fact that the GOG was late in
divestiture and public utility practices, and  fulfilling conditionalities for
shall provide, as needed, funds, facilities,  effectiveness. In addition, many
I X      a          :services and other resources required.      components of the project wvere not
I       I                                             i W  :carried out.
3.02             10        C     Ensure that procurement of the goods and
I        I        I 0consultants' services required for the Project   I
aand to be financed out of the proceeds of the   i
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
I |      [        ]Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.03              I        C     Open and maintain, until the completion of the
I       I |  :Project, a Project Account in a commercial
ibank and on terms and conditions acceptable   i
I |      0        eto IDA. Deposit into the Project Account an
initial amount equivalent to $200,000 and
l       l          | thereafter at annual intervals, an amount
I        I E      |equivalent to the Initial Deposit ensuring that  I
the deposited amounts are in accordance with
I  this Section and utilized exclusively to finance I
its counterpart contributions costs.
4.01(b)           1        C     Furnish to the Association, as soon as
I        I        i :available, but in any case not later than four
Emonths after the end of each such year, a
I :      |        :certified copy of the records and accounts
I :   :  |audited by independent auditors, including
I       I :  |those for the Special Account, of such scope   I
and in such detail as the Association shall have i
reasonably requested.
4.01(c)(i)        1        C     Maintain or cause to be maintained records
I       I :  :and accounts reflecting all expenditures with   I
respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statement
of expenditure.



20
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit   :Covenant, Present 1           Description of Covenant                        Comments
Agreement  I Type  I Status I
I                 I
Section    I
4.01(c)(ii)       I 1      C     Retain, until at least one year after IDA has
l        l        l received the audit report for the fiscal year in
l        l        l which the last withdrawal from the Credit  I
Account or payment out of the Special
l        l        l Account was made, all records (contracts,
l        l        l orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
i documents) evidencing such expenditures.    I
I        I                    
4.01(c)(iii)     1        C      Enable the Association's representatives to
l        l        l examine such records.
4.01(c)(iv)      1        C      Ensure that all records and accounts with
respect to statement of expenditures are
l        l        l included in the annual audit and that such  I
audit contains a separate opinion as to whether
I        :        : the SOEs submitted during such fiscal year
I        I l        : can be relied upon to support the related
:  withdrawals.
Schedule 4  l  10   1 NC    PC is responsible for the implementation and    Members of the PC were appointed
I.1         I l       :        : management of Part A of the Project. Part A.3  in July 1995. The PC was never
i  l     l        l of the Project shall be implemented in     ioperational and the few operations
conjunction with the Ministry of Justice.    carried out under the Project were
l  l     l        l DNMPPE, within MPF, is responsible for the   managed by ad hoc committees.
:  l     l        l implementation and management of Part B of l SOTELGUI is a case in point.
l        l          the Project.
I        I        I 
Schedule 4       I10      C      The Borrower shall maintain DNMPPE, PC,
1.2                              and CCEF (including a Technical Unit)'
l        l        l throughout the implementation of the Project
l        l          : in a form and composition acceptable to the
Association and shall ensure that they carry
out the responsibilities allocated to them under'
l  the Project.
I        I        I 
Schedule 4       I10     NC    The Borrower shall submit to the Association    A budget was submitted in
I.3                             for approval by November 30 of each year    l November 1994 for CY95, but not
l        l        I DNMPPE's program and budget for the        l supported by a business plan.
following year.



21
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit   :Covenant :Present :           Description of Covenant          i             Comments
Agreement  IType  I Status I
Section    l
Schedule 4       10        C    DNMPPE shall, for the duration of the Project,
I.4                             recruit an independent accountant who will
I        a       i maintain the Project's records and accounts.   i
I        I       I
Schedule4         9        C    DNMPPE shall be responsible for Project
11.1                   I       I monitoring and review.
Schedule 4        9       NC    DNMPPE shall submit semi-annual progress    Only one status report was provided
II.2                            reports in a format approved by the           in August 1994.
I Association within eight weeks of the end of
each semester.
Schedule 4        9       NC    The semi-annual progress reports shall be the
II.3                            subject of a joint review meeting between the
Borrower and the Association.
Schedule 4        9       NC    The Borrower and the Association shall carry-   There was no need for a mid-term
II.4                            out a mid-term review of the Project not later   review in Dec. 1993, three months
l        l       I than December 31, 1993. The Borrower shall  I after effectiveness. However, a
I      X prepare the inputs required for this review.  review of the project, its objectives
scope and organization was carried
out in Feb. 1995 to ensure that the
GOG still wanted to carry out the
project and to fully empower the new
I        I       I                                             g management.
Schedule 4       10       NC    The Borrower shall, no later than December    No divestiture program was
111.1.       |         :       1 31, 1992, submit to IDA for approval a       submitted on Dec. 31, 1992. A first
l        l       I detailed divestiture program (DP). This DP    i draft of the program was submitted in
I        ,       , shall target at least those public enterprises  July 1995. It was never adopted by
I        |       : subject of the decision of the Council of   1the GOG.
'        '         ' Ministers of March 24, 1992 that have not yet
I        I       a been completely privatized or liquidated. The  I
a        :       | DP shall also include a specific action plan and:
I  a detailed timetable with monitorable actions
I        I       I that can be modified every six months subject
a        |       : to the prior IDA's approval.



22
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
|   Credit   1Covenant 1Present:        Description of Covenant                        Comments
Agreement  I Type  I Status I
Section    l
Schedule 4      1  0      NC    The Divestiture Program shall be drafted and    As there was no program, it could not
III.2(a)               I       ' t carried out in accordance with the following    i be drafted and carried out in
principles:                                 i accordance with the established
|        I       I |                                           | principles. If we do not take into
I        I       I                                             | account the absence of a program, the
operations themselves were not
X carried out according to the
principles.
I   I            I                                          .
Schedule 4        10     NC    The assets or shares of the enterprises to be  Assets/shares were not sold on the
111.2(b)                        privatized or liquidated shall be sold on the  basis of tender procedures, objectives
ibasis of tender procedures that are both    i and transparency:
gobjective and competitive as well as          SOGUITRO: a presidential decree to
l      ' |  | transparent.                            transfer assets to the employees;
I         I      I                                             I AIR GUINEE: liquidated and
l         I      I :                                           | resumed business soon after.
Schedule 4        10      NC    For every privatization or liquidation, a     The PC was not operational.
111.2(c)                         recommendation of PC regarding the strategy    Therefore, it never presented any
I |    | and modalities of divestiture be applied, based  i recommendations to the CCEF.
on a file prepared by DNMPPE, shall be       Even in the case of SOTELGUI it
submitted to CCEF for decision by the Council was not involved.
|         I      I | of Ministers. The PC, with the assistance of                                   l
,  a      |      | DNMPPE, shall implement the decision taken  l
by the Council of Ministers.
Schedule 4   1   10   I NC    Buyers of assets or shares of the enterprises to   Employees of SOGUITRO were
I11.2(d)                        be privatized or liquidated will not be given  given special privileges: assets were
special privileges (like subsidies, credits,  i given to them under a presidential
market protection etc.) under the Divestiture    decree which did not contain any
I      f Program, other than those defined in the 1987   provisions regarding the price or
I      I : Investment Code or in the 1986 Mining Code, I terms of payment (in other words,
I      i a unless otherwise agreed to by the Association. i assets were gifted to employees).
I      I :                                           * SOTELGUI was privatized in such a
I         I      i                                             X way that the public monopoly
I         I      i                                             | became a private monopoly.



23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit      ovenant; Present            Description of Covenant                        Comments
Agreement  I Type  I Status l
Section            I         I
Schedule 4       10      NC      With the exception of normal maintenance     SOGETRAG, the bus company,
III.2(e)                         and repair works, the Borrower shall refrain    continued to receive subsidies and the
X   s    | from granting subsidies to or investing    iGovernment wanted to keep it alive
i(including rehabilitation) in public enterprises 8 even though it was bankrupt.
that have been targeted for privatization in the
I       I         I Divestiture Program, unless otherwise agreed
I z      | to by the Association.
I       I         I 
Schedule 4       10      NC      Shares in a public enterprise cannot be sold to  OFAB was merged into a new public
111.2(f)                         another public enterprise, unless otherwise  enterprise (ANAIM).
I                 ' s agreed to by IDA.
Schedule 4       9        C      At the Association's request, tender
111.2(g)              I         I documents, bid evaluation reports as well as
I final privatization agreements for the sale of  I
public enterprises shall be submitted to the
I       g         g Association for information.
Schedule 4       10      NC      Privatization of a public utility has to be  The regulatory framework for
111.2(h)                         preceded by the entry into force of a sound    I telecoms was not in place when
I                 I : regulatory framework for the relevant sector   SOTELGUI was privatized.
that is acceptable to the Association.
Schedule 4       10   I NC    The Borrower shall ensure that DNMPPE, the  No performance contract was
111.2(i)     1        :        [ Ministry of Communications and OPG shall,   prepared.
no later than March 31, 1993, prepare a    I
performance contract acceptable to IDA that
I       |         : defines the respective responsibilities of the
I       X         : Borrower and OPG, including the primary    I
performance indicators for OPG. The        l
Borrower and OPG shall enter into this
performance contract no later than April 30,
'1993.
Schedule 4       10      NC    The Borrower shall ensure that DNMPPE, the  The regulatory framework was not in
111.2(j)              '        I & Ministry of Communications and SOTELGUI  place for the privatization of
i shall, no later than September 30, 1992,  i SOTELGUI (see 111 2(h) above)
prepare a schedule of conditions acceptable to
I       I         I IDA that defines the regulatory framework of
l       l         E SOTELGUI's activities. The Borrower and    l
I       I         I SOTELGUI shall agree upon this schedule of
|       I         I | conditions no later than April 30, 1993.



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit   ICovenantl Present               Description of Covenant           C             Comments
Agreement  I Type  X Status  l
I         
Section    I                  l
Schedule 4   :  10   : NC         The Borrower shall ensure that DNMPPE, the   No performance contract was
III.2(k)                         I Ministry of Natural Resources Energy and      prepared for SBK. Therefore it never
I        i : Environment and the Societe Anonyme that    ibecame effective.
will replace OBK shall, no later than March
3 1, 1993, prepare a performance contract
l  acceptable to IDA that defines responsibilities
I  of the Borrower and aforementioned Societe,  l
including the primary performance indicators
for aforementioned Societe Anonyme. The                                            |
l                  i Borrower and aforementioned Sociezt         l
Anonyme shall enter into this performance    l
contract no later than May 31, 1993.
Schedule 4       10        C      The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Part
i111.3        I        I          A.3 of the Project, submit to IDA for its
approval no later than December 31, 1992: (i) a
I        :         | a detailed legal reform program; and (ii) the
I        :         : names and qualifications of trainees from the
l  l     l         | legal profession selected for training.     l
Schedule 4        10    NC        The Borrower shall not establish new public    See 111.2(f) above. A new PE was
IV. I                            I enterprises without the prior approval of the   I created (ANAIM) without Bank's
I        I         I Association.                                I approval. Air Guinee, resumed
flying without Bank's approval, soon
_after it was liquidated



25
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant  Present                  Description of Covenant                              Comments
Agreement       Type  IStatus
Section    l          l
_~~~~~                                                                              I
Schedule 4         10        CP      The Borrower shall ensure that DNMPPE               Cross-debt problem was tackled only
IV.2                                  prepares an update to December 31, 1992 of   'in late 1994.
the situation of existing cross-debts between
the Borrower and public enterprises and
between public enterprises as identified in the
Coopers & Lybrand study of December 6,           I
i 1991, prior to March 31, 1993. On the basis of i
that update, the Borrower shall, no later than
I |       } May 31, 1993, adopt a program to be prepared:
I by DNMPPE for the liquidation of these cross- I
debts including a mechanism and time
schedule for compensation and settlement
'thereof. Cross-debt that can be compensated
I |i and will have to be liquidated no later than             I
December31, 1993.
Present Status:                      Conant Type
I Accounts/audit
C  = covenant complied with         2. Financial performance/generate revenue from benericiaries
CD = complied with afler delay      3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
CP = complied with partially        4. Counterpart funding
NC = not complied with              5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
I1. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/fnstitutional action
13. Other



26
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle                     Weeks    US$ (000)
Through appraisal                                      37.5             79.40
Appraisal-Board                                        18.9      :      40.02
Supervision                                           49.1              103.97
Completion                                             10.5             22.23
Total          116.    :       245.62
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
I         I |         I         X                    U     Performance rating
Stage of Project Cycle:   Nionth/ :Number of Days in    Specialized staff  Implementation   Development              Types of problems
year   I Persons  Ifield   I skills represented  I    status         objectives
I         I           I                                           .    . I._ 
Supervision l     I        11/92       I          5    ! PE specialist      !                !                 Conditionalities for effcctivencss were
IIIIII                                                                                 not mct
Supervision 1I             7/93  !    2       !  14   ! Operations Officer          3               3          Conditionalitics for effcctivencss were
2/9            2          8      Lawyer                                                not met
SupervisionIII         I  2/94  I    2        I   8      Operations Officer,        I                I
I         I           I         | Financial Analyst
Supervision IV             4/94  !    2       !   6    IOperations Officer
Division Chief     ,
Supervision V              9/94        5 5        2    I Division Chief                              I I   I I
Operations Officer
I Financial Analysts  I
I           I |      I Consultant         I                I
Supervision VI             11/94  I    2      I  10    I PE specialist,             U               U          Managemcnt performance and
I           I        I | Economist                         I                 compliance with legal covenants
Supervision VIl            2/95        3      1   7      Division Chief             U               U        I Problems identified in Nov. 94 are not
I        I |   g  Ponfolio Manager                              addrcssed. No action plan. no progrcss
I     I               I         I PE specialist                                        made, non compliance with legal
I         IIl                   I                   i                I               Icovenants
Supervision VIII /      I  9/95        1      1   6    I PE specialist              U        I      U          The Divestiture action plan is not
Completion                                                                                                     rinalizcd, no progrcss madc in project
I         I           I        I                                     I               I g implementation.
Follow..Up                 3/96        I      1   3       Portfolio Manager                                   ICR preparation



27
APPENDIX A
Pagel of2
ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
La mission de preparation du Rapport de Fin d'Execution (RFE) du PATSEP conduite
par M. H. Harald Burmeister a visite Conakry du 12 au 15 mars 1996. Messieurs Burmeister et
Locatelli, Representant Resident en Guinee, ont rencontre S.E. Monsieur le Ministre du Plan, le
Directeur National des Marches Publics et du Portefeuille (DNMPPE) et autres Officiels afin de
recueillir les vues du Gouvernement de Guinee (GDG) concernant la mise en oeuvre du
PATSEP. La mission a aussi discute de la contribution du GDG au RFE et lui a fourni les avis et
conseils necessaires A sa preparation. La mission d6sire remercier le GDG pour la facon amicale
et constructive dont les reunions ont et menees.
Cet aide-memoire fournit un bref resum des conclusions de la mission et des accords
avec le GDG.
a)    La mission a obtenu la plupart des informations demandees afin de permettre la redaction
du RFE. En plus, le Directeur de la DNMPPE a convenu de foumir A la Banque au plus tard le
22 mars 1996 les renseignements suivants:
i) les documents concemant la privatisation de neuf entreprises (GHU, H6tel Gbessia,
autres hotels, SONAFIC, SOGUIPLAST, BONAGUI, SOPEC, AGRIMA, PROSECO
(recu);
ii) une analyse du cofit actuel du projet par categorie de decaissements et leur
financement (pas requ); et
iii) une estimation des decaissements A effectuer avant la date de cl6ture du PATSEP, le
30 avril 1996 (pas re,u).
b)    Se referant A la lettre de la Banque du 30 aouit 1995, la mission a explique les proceddures
concernant la preparation du RFE, et particulierement l'obligation du GDG de preparer sa propre
evaluation du PATSEP et de foumir ses commentaires sur le projet de RFE prepare par la
Banque qui lui sera transmis sous peu. Le Directeur de la DNMPPE a convenu de fournir les
rapport et commentaires du GDG au plus tard le 15 juin 1996.
c)    Le Directeur de la DNMPPE a convenu d'envoyer A la Banque, avant le 15 avril 1996, la
documentation concernant les depenses payees sur le Compte Special (CS) en meme temps que
le remboursement du solde du CS.
d)    La mission a ete informee que l'Audit des Comptes du Projet pour 1995 est actuellement
en cours et que les rapports d'audit seront transmis A la Banque dans les delais impartis. Puisque



28
APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 2
la Banque a informe le GDG que I'audit des comptes du PATSEP ne pourrait etre finance sous
ce credit, le GDG a demande a la Banque d'examiner les possibilites de financer cette activite
sous un autre projet finance par la Banque. La mission a promis d'examiner la question et de
fournir la reponse de la Banque le plus tot possible.
e)    Les discussions ont port6 sur les etapes d'identification, de preparation, d'evaluation et de
supervision du PATSEP dont on peut tirer un bon nombre d'enseignements pour le futur. La
mission a confirme que I'evaluation A posteriori de la Banque est critique, en estimant que le
PATSEP n'a pas atteint ses objectifs. La mission a invite le GDG A refleter ses propres vues
d'une fa,on egalement ouverte et franche.
Washington, le 10 avril 1996.



29                           APPENDIX B.
Page 1 of 12
Government's Contribution to ICR
RESUME
Une evaluation objective du Projet PATSEP necessite un rappel de son
evolution historique depuis sa preparation jusqu'a sa cl6ture.
1-9) LE Pro,jct a tLe mal con,u dbs le d6pail. Ld palidi, atiun des cadres locaux
a cette conception a ete minimale. L'idee d'en faire un PESECAL (Projet de
reforme du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques) a ete rejetee par les services de
la Banque, en raison du derapage de la FAS-Renforcee conclue avec le Fonds
Monetaire International et la Banque Mondiale; et precipitamment est monte
un Projet d'Assistance Technique avec un nombre eleve d'experts residents,
alors qu'en meme temps la Banque etait en train de repenser sa politique en
matibre d'assistance technique. Le manque de coordination entre le service de
la Banque charge de la conception de ce projet et le reste de la Banque, tout
comme l'inexperience du premier TASK Manager expliquent en partie ce
probl6me conceptuel.
20) L'assistance technique residente dont le coOt representait plus de 70% du
credit a ete supprimee pour des raisons propres a la Banque aprbs qu'elle ait
change de politique. Or cette assistance technique comblait un vide et etait
donc indispensable pour la realisation complbte des objectifs du Projet:
preparer et mettre en oeuvre un programme de desengagement et renforcer
les capacites de la structure chargee de la gestion du portefeuille de l'Etat.
30) Le Projet a servi a creer le cadre reglementaire et institutionnel du
desengagement de l'Etat du secteur des Entreprises Publiques, a etablir un
inventaire des Entreprises du Portefeuille, a realiser quelques actions de
formation et a privatiser 26 des 46 Entreprises ciblees. Mais il ne pouvait aller
au dela, sans l'assistance technique prevue et pendant la trbs courte duree de
sa mise en oeuvre. En effet, la mise en vigueur de I'accord de credit a pris un
an et demi de retard, n'ayant demarre effectivement qu'en Avril 1994, et aussi,
le dernier TASK  Manager a empeche toute depense en dehors du
fonctionnement (loyer, fournitures de bureau, etc...) pendant l'annee 1995 en
subordonnant I'adoption du budget a la production d'un plan precis de
desengagement. Ce qui n'etait ni une condition de mise en vigueur, ni
absolument necessaire.
40) Le Projet a ete serieusement affecte par les divergences de vues entre les
differents TASK Managers qui se sont succedes durant son execution et a
chacun de ces changements le departement de tutelle ou la division
responsable au sein de la Banque changeait egalement. II en a resulte une
supervision, c6te Banque Mondiale, non satisfaisante du Projet.



30
APPENDIX B.
Page 2 of 12
1. HISTORIQUE
Une evaluation objective du PATSEP, en vue d'en tirer des lecons pour le futur,
ne saurait etre faite sans un rappel de l'evolution historique de ce projet depuis
sa preparation jusqu'a sa cl6ture:
1. De 1986 a 1990, la majorite des entreprises publiques cre6es sous la
premiere Republique, avait ete soit privatisee, liquidee ou ferm6e. En 1992, 178
entreprises publiques avaient subi un tel sort sur les 234 qui couvraient tous les
secteurs de I'economie (agriculture, commerce, industrie, banques, transports
etc...), le mod&ee socialiste etant fortement implant6.
2. Cette premiere phase de desengagement avait ete realisee pour la majeure
partie en dehors de tout cadre institutionnel et juridique. II n'existait aucun texte
sur les modes de privatisation et celles-ci avaient ete conduites par les
Ministeres de tutelle et non par un organisme institutionnel unique, bien que le
Comit6 de Coordination Economique et Financier, charge du suivi du PAS, ait
ete avec sa cellule technique, a une certaine epoque, competente.
3. Les entreprises publiques restant dans le portefeuille (56) etaient encore
g6r&es par les Ministeres techniques de tutelle, sans autonomie reelle de
gestion. La gestion tres defectueuse de ces entreprises pesait lourdement sur
les finances publiques, notamment par I'accumulation d'importants arrieres au
titre des prets retroc6des; en meme temps ces entreprises percevaient plus de
7 milliards de subvention directe.
4. Les relations financieres Etat/Entreprises publiques etaient mal maitris6es.
Le Ministere des Finances n'avait pas d'informations financieres fiables sur les
entreprises. Ainsi la masse des dettes et creances reciproques etant mal
connue. La capacite de gestion et de suivi du secteur parapublic etait encore
tres faible, malgre la creation recente en Mars 1991 de la Direction Nationale
des March6s Publics et Portefeuille (DNMPP) au sein du Ministere des
Finances. Mal equipee, disposant de peu de competences, cette nouvelle
structure n'etait pas capable d'instaurer: la discipline financiere dans le secteur
des entreprises publiques; d'elaborer une solide politique financiere de l'Etat
(reduction des subventions directes et indirectes par exemple); et enfin de
concevoir et d'executer un programme de desengagement de l'Etat du secteur.
5. Le programme de la FAS-R, conclu avec la Banque Mondiale et le Fonds
Monetaire  International en 1991 rencontrait de s6rieuses difficultes dans
1'execution du volet r6forme des entreprises publiques en particulier. D'ou le
besoin d'un projet sectoriel de reforme dans ce domaine pour soutenir le
programme macro-economique.
C'est dans ce contexte que fut prepare le projet PATSEP sous la
responsabilite, c6te IDA, de Monsieur Suzuki et grace a un don du
Gouvernement japonais.
6. Pour pallier sa faible connaissance des entreprises publiques en Afrique et
de la langue fran9aise, Monsieur Suzuki confia les travaux preparatoires et
d'identification des actions a entreprendre par le projet a Monsieur Tu Son, du



31                            APPENDIX B.
Page 3 of 12
Cabinet Euro-Africaine de Conseil. Celui-ci etait deja intervenu en Guinee et
avait deja r6dig6, dans le cadre des audits de certaines entreprises dont le
Grand H6tel de l'Independance, un rapport critique sur la privatisation en
Guinee. Monsieur Tu Son a voulu des le depart (( diriger )> le projet avec des
idees tres precises, optant pour un transfert de l'agence d'execution du projet
du Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale, lequel avait ete en
charge de la premiXere phase des privatisations, a la DNMPP du Ministere des
Finances, qui a l'epoque, etait dirigee par un cadre guineen qui fut son
collaborateur en Cote d'lvoire.
Ce probleme du choix de la structure chargee de la coordination   du
programme de r6forme cr6a un conflit institutionnel entre le Ministere des
Finances et celui du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale qui ne se resorba
qu'avec leur fusion lors du remaniement ministeriel de fevrier 1992.
7. Negoci6 en Mai 1992, presente au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque fin
Juin, le credit PATSEP sera signe en aout 1992, mais ne put demarrer
effectivement qu'en Avril 1994 en raison de la nature et des nombreuses
conditionnalites de mise en vigueur. Parmi ces conditionnalit6s figuraient
notamment:
- la reorganisation de la DNMPP avec nomination du Directeur National et
du Chef de projet.
8. Mais la plus importante concernait l'adoption de la legislation sur le
desengagement. Sa redaction et son adoption poserent de serieux problemes
car, sans I'accord prealable des autorites guineennes, un avocat d'Abidjan fut
recrute par le TASK Manager et depeche a Conakry pour rediger le dit-projet
de loi sur le d6sengagement. Cet avocat n'avait aucune connaissance de la
legislation Guineenne. De surcroit, son mode de designation constituait une
violation flagrante par le TASK Manager des dispositions relatives a la
passation des marches finances par l'IDA. Les autorit6s firent part a la Banque,
par 6crit, de leur mecontentement sur cette maniere de proceder. Le projet de
loi dOt etre profondement amende par une autre assistance pour etre en
harmonie avec les regles juridiques en vigueur en Guinee. Cette situation fut en
partie a l'origine du retard accuse dans la mise en vigueur de I'accord de credit.
9. A cela il convient d'ajouter la lenteur manifestee par le Ministere des
Finances dans la reorganisation de la DNMPP et la nomination des cadres
responsables.
Le projet ne connaitra finalement son demarrage effectif qu'en Avril 1994.
A noter qu'au depart, les etudes et travaux preparatoires visaient un projet de
reforme du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques (PRESEP ou PESECAL)
conformement   'aide memoire de la mission de fin Octobre 1991. Ce projet
devait financer:
a). Une operation de soutien a la balance des paiements en facilitant
l'importation de biens au profit d'entreprises a reformer dans le cadre du projet,
comme SOTELGUI, ENELGUI, SBK, Air Guinee., SOGETRAG, et une
assistance technique pour soutenir la realisation du projet.



32
APPENDIX B.
Page 4 of 12
b). Cette conception fut modifiee parce que le programme de la FAS-R ayant
connu des derapages a fin 1991, un projet du type PESECAL ne pouvait pas
etre approuve par le Conseil d'Administration de la Banque, au terme de
1'exercice budg6taire de cette institution, le 30/06/92. Les Services de la
Banque ont dO donc limiter le projet a son volet assistance technique.
10. A.nsi I'appellation  PRESEP  se transforma en  PATSEP  (Projet de
rationaiisation et d'assis1tance au Secteur des Entreprises Publiques). Ce
nouveau projet comportait une assistance technique residente d'au moins 4
experts pour renforcer les capacites a la DNMPP, et le financement permettant
de mener les audits ainsi que la formation du personnel.
L'accord de cr6dit en matiere de desengagement n'etait precis que pour 4
entreprises: OPG, Sotelgui, Enelgui et OBK. Des donnees financieres n'6taient
pas disponibles pour les autres entreprises de la liste des 46 objet de la
decision du Conseil des Ministres du 24/03/1996. Cette liste avait ete;
hativement etablie par la mission d'evaluation du projet en mars 1992 pour
servir de condition de negociation. Comme on le decouvrira plus tard 4 de ces
46 entreprises n'etaient pas des entreprises mais des projets dont l'UPSU
finance par l'IDA, et 7 etaient fermees ou a l'arret.
11. Par ailleurs, l'annexe IV de l'accord de credit prevoyait la soumission avant
fin 1992 d'un programme detaille de desengagement par le Gouvernement a la
Banque pour approbation. Ce programme devait cibler les 46 entreprises
publiques objet de la decision du conseil des Ministres du 24/3/92, avec une
description detaillee de la maniere dont la privatisation ou la liquidation serait
executee ainsi que les differentes formes et les procedures applicables a
chaque Entreprise. Mais, il ne s'agissait pas d'une condition de mise en
vigueur.
12. En Juillet 1992, il a ete procede au recrutement des experts residents par
appel d'offres. Leur selection eut lieu a Paris sous la responsabilite du TASK
manager et le Chef du Projet. Cependant, l'utilisation de ces experts ne pouvait
pas intervenir avant 1'entr6e en vigueur de I'accord de credit.
13. Apres une breve supervision de Mme Magda KHOUZIAM suite au depart
inattendu de Mr SUZUKI, le projet fut a nouveau place debut 1993 sous la
responsabilite d'un 3eme TASK Manager, Mr Demba BA qui donna une reelle
impulsion au demarrage effectif du projet.
Au cours d'une mission effectuee par ce dernier en Juin 1993, la conception
originelle du projet fut remise en cause, principalement au niveau de l'ordre des
priorites. En se fondant sur la nouvelle politique de la Banque en matiere
d'assistance technique, il fut propose de recentrer le projet en supprimant
l'assistance residente au profit d'une assistance ponctuelle. Le recrutement des
experts selectionnes a Paris fut donc definitivement stopp&.
Le recentrage sera effectu6 a Washington en Novembre 1993 par les services
de la Banque et une mission guineenne qui s'y etait rendue a cet effet. Le plan
detailIe d'execution du projet etabli a cette occasion precisait les conditions
prealables a l'eaboration d'un plan de desengagement: recruter et former le
personnel de la DNMPP; collecter les etats financiers des entreprises



33
APPENDIX B.
Page 5 of 12
proceder a des audits comptables; instituer un systeme informatise de gestion
du portefeuille; et realiser des etudes de reinsertion/reconversion pour les
effectifs a compresser.
Sous l'impulsion de Mr BA, le projet connut son demarrage effectif avec:
- l'organisation d'un seminaire de demarrage pour sensibiliser les entreprises,
!es Minist&ies techniques de tutelie et les administrations
- I'achat d'equipements de bureau;
- le demarrage de la collec.e des informations sur chacune des 46 entreprises
cibl6es en vue de preparer le plan et le programme de d6sengagement;
- le demarrage d'un programme de formation, par le biais d'une assistance
technique ponctuelle, pour renforcer des capacites de la structure de gestion
(DNMPP).
11. La realisation de toutes ces taches etait jug6e necessaire et meme
indispensable pour faire les meilleurs choix en matiere de strategie de
desengagement et pour accroitre les chances de succes du projet.
12. II faut noter au passage que ce projet a fait l'objet de plusieurs
changements de TASK manager, et qu'a chacun de ces changements le
Departement de tutelle ou la Division responsable changeait egalement. En
effet:
- Monsieur Suzuki etait de la Division Entreprises Publiques d'un
D6partement Technique de la Region Afrique;
* Madame Magda KHOUZAIM etait de la Division AF1CO qui gerait
tous les prets accordes a la Guinee.
- Mr Demba BA appartenait a la Division Energie et Industrie du
meme departement que AF1 CO.
- Monsieur Pierre MORIN, qui lui succeda en Novembre 1994
relevait quant a lui d'une Division d'un tout autre departement.
13. Ces divers changements de tutelle et de TASK Manager ont provoque des
divergences d'opinions sur le projet, particulierement en ce qui concerne sa
conception et son execution et le dernier TASK Manager ne put organiser une
mission conjointe de passation de service avec son pred6cesseur.
14. Ainsi, lors de sa derniere mission de supervision effectuee debut Octobre
1994, le <e rating )) du Projet etait juge satisfaisant par Monsieur Demba BA.
15. Un mois plus tard, ce (( rating )) fut juge non satisfaisant par le nouveau
TASK manager, Monsieur MORIN, suite a une mission de supervision
effectuee en cinq jours du 14 au 19 Novembre 1994. Refusant d'assurer
(( I'heritage )) de ses predecesseurs, le nouveau TASK Manager exigea comme
prealabie a l'adoption du budget operationnel du projet, la preparation du
programme detaille de desengagement, tel que defini a l'annexe IV de l'accord



34                          APPEINDIX B.
Page 6 of 12
de credit. II ne s'agissait pas d'une condition de mise en vigueur, mais d'une
tache prevue a fin Decembre 1992 dans le plan d'execution du projet.
16. Cette exigence inversait totalement les conclusions de la r6union de
recentrage de Novembre 1993 qui prescrivait l'execution de taches prealables
a la pr6paration dudit programme. De ce fait, faute de budget approuve elle
entrainait aussi, le blocage de la mise en oeuvre d'importants volets du projet.
Monsieur MORIN proposa alors qu'un Consultant soit recrute pour preparer le
programme de desengagement.
17. En raison du temps mis a preparer et a faire adopter les TDR de cette
etude par la Banque, proc6der a l'appel d'offres restreint, s6lectionner le
Consultant et executer la mission, le rapport du Consultant s&lectionne
(Professeur Elliot BERG),ne sera disponible qu'en Juillet 1995.
18. Fort malheureusement, ce rapport jug6 de bonne qualite par le
Gouvernement sera mal accueilli par le TASK manager pour des raisons qui
restent encore obscures. Toutefois, le rapport du Consultant a servi a produire
un projet final du plan de desengagement qui sera soumis aux services de la
Banque.au debut des assemblees annuelles F.M.l./B M en Octobre 1995.
19. Des reunions techniques organisees avec les services de la Banque
pendant les assemblees permirent d'affiner le programme et de convenir d'un
projet final.
Mais la cloture du PATSEP interviendra le 31/12/1995, deux mois plus tard.
II. EVALUATION GENERALE DU PROJET
20. Le rapport d'evaluation de la Banque date du 10 Avril 1995 a completement
ignore les effets pervers sur l'ex6cution du PATSEP de l'evolution historique du
projet decrite ci-dessus. Ce rapport soutient que les resultats du PATSEP sont
minimes et que ceux-ci n'ont aucune chance de durabilite. Les raisons
principales avancees sont:
- le manque de soutien politique au programme de reforme, meme si les
fonds de contre partie ont ete r6guli6rement decaisses;
- le manque de capacite administrative ou d'internalisation des
r formes;
- 'inexistence d'un programme detail1e de desengagement.
A l'examen, ces affirmations se revelent fort discutables, et pour les deux
premieres, en particulier, aucune evidence n'est fournie pour les soutenir.
21. L'argument portant sur le manque de soutien politique est contredit
par les faits. En effet, depuis l'adoption du programme de r6forme il y a une
dizaine d'annees, la volonte du Gouvernement de se desengager du SEP n'a
pas fait defaut. De 234 entreprises publiques, la taille de ce secteur a 6t-
reduite a mains de 60 entreprises. I'Etat s'est totalement desengage du secteur
bancaire, du commerce et de plusieurs industries. On ne le retrouve comme



35
APPENDIX B.
Page 7 of 12
actionnaire, avec moins de 50 % des actions, dans la plupart des cas que dans
les secteurs miniers et des services, les transports notamment avec Air Guin6e
et Sogetrag.
22. Au d6but du PATSEP, le secteur de la distribution des produits pbtroliers a
ete cede a des operateurs prives comme ELF, 'rOTAL, SHELL. Des cessions
sont egalement intervenues dans les secteurs de 1'eau (Sonea-Seeg), de
l'66ctricitf et (Enelgui-Sogel) et des tei1communications (Sotelgui).
23. Contrairement a l'opinion emise dans le rapport, toutes ces privatisations
ont ete menees selon les regles de transparence et de concurrence. La
privatisation de Sotelgui en particulier a ete menee sous l'egide du Comite de
Privatisation, et c'est seulement apres un appel d'offres infructueux que des
negociations de gre a gre ont ete engagees avec quatre (4) operateurs prives
proposant les meilleures offres et c'est seulement a la suite de cela que la
meilleure offre pour la Guinee a ete retenue.
24. Rares sont les pays africains au Sud du Sahara qui sont alles aussi loin que
la Guinee en matiere de privatisation, meme s'il y a eu quelques imperfections.
L'argument selon lequel le PATSEP n'a << directement o contribue qu'a la
privatisation de 6 entreprises (( seulement b' est une serieuse deformation de la
realite.
Le proces-verbal des reunions techniques tenues lors des assemblees
annuelles 1995 est du reste assez explicite sur les resultats positifs acquis
gr5ce a la mise en oeuvre avec le PATSEP. Meme si les ressources du
PATSEP n'6taient pas disponibles, les autorit6s ont poursuivi les efforts de
desengagement, sans se limiter exclusivement a la liste initiale de 46
entreprises.
Ill. RESULTATS
1. Le projet a permis de soutenir la privatisation de Sotelgui, d'etablir un
inventaire des entreprises en portefeuille et de conduire des actions de
formation. A ce jour, sur les 46 entreprises ciblees 15 ont 6te privatis6es et 3
ont ete restructurees. A noter que 4 n'auraient pas dO figurer sur la liste car
n'etant pas des Entreprises.
2. Le projet a 6gaiement permis, grace aux rckforwes juridiques, a renforcer le
systeme juridique ayant un impact sur le developpement du secteur priv&.
Cependant, la r6alisation complete des objectifs n'6tait pratiquement pas
possible pour les raisons suivantes:
1°). L'assistance technique residente a ete supprimee unilateralement par les
services de la Banque. Or cet appui technique etait absolument indispensable
pour la preparation du programme de desengagement (audits, choix des
stratecies de privatisation, redaction des documents d'appel d'offres) et son
execution (depouillement des offres, negociation, redaction des documents de
cession et de transfert...). Cette assistance aurait ete egalement utile pour le
volet assainissement financier du portefeuille., A noter que plus de 70 % des
ressources du credit 6taient alloues a cette Assistance Technique.



36
APPENDIX B.
Page 8 of 12
20). Le projet n'a effectivement demarre qu'en Avril 1994, soit 1 an 1/2 apres la
date  initialement fixee.  Le  retard  mis  par  le  Gouvernement  pour
l'accomplissement de certaines conditions de mise en vigueur, et le conflit, ne
lors du choix du consultant charge de rediger la legislation par les services de
la Banque en violation de ses propres regles de passation de marches, ont
entrair.& ce retard.
J°). Le Budget operationnel 1995, qui prevoyait plusieurs actions (formation,
etudes de march6s sur SBK; audit d'Air Guinee, de Sogetrag, de Soguipeche
et de Pharma-Guin6e; programme de reconversion/reinsertion des effectifs a
compresser) n'a pas re,u I'approbation du TASK Manager qui exigeait, au
prealable, la preparation du programme detaille de desengagement.
Malheureusement, pour des raisons que seuls les services de la Banque et le
TASK Manager peuvent expliquer, le rapport produit en Juillet 1995 par le
Consultant n'a pas permis de d6bloquer la situation.
3. En somme, le projet n'a connu une execution normale que pendant une
partie de l'ann6e 1994. Une evaluation objective de l'execution dudit projet ne
devrait donc pas masquer cette realite crue qui l'a profondement affectee.
4. Les divergences de vues entre les differents TASK managers qui se sont
succedes expliquent aussi les difficultes rencontrees dans l'execution de ce
projet. La remise en cause du volet de I'assistance technique residente apres la
signature de l'accord etait une violation de cet accord. II en est resulte une
supervision non satisfaisante du projet. Cette contre performance etait
particulierement evidente a partir de Novembre 1994.
5. A partir de cette date, la collecte des donnees financieres sur les entreprises
publiques a ete brutalement interrompue; il en a 6te de meme pour les audits
et les etudes prevues dans le budget 1995 qui a fait l'objet d'un rejet dans les
conditions decrites plus haut.
6. Ainsi des actions qui auraient pu etre utiles au projet et a la Guinee ont ete
freinees, voire decouragees. A titre d'illustration, les services de la Banque ont
refuse de financer les audits des entreprises telles que Air Guinee, Sogetrag,
Soguipeche, Bicigui, Pharmaguinee, bien qu'il existait des fonds prevus a cet
effet dans le PATSEP. Dans le cas d'Air Guinee et Sogetrag, le Gouvernement,
pour demontrer toute sa d6termination et remplir une des conditionnalites de la
FAS-R, finan,a ces audits sur ces propres ressources. Autre illustration: les
services de la Banque n'ont jamais repondu a la requete de recrutement de 2
experts residents dont le TDR avaient ete soumis en Mars 1995.
7. Au total, les modifications inopportunes des objectifs et donc du contenu du
projet ainsi que la lourdeur des proc6dures d'approbation, ont entrain6 des
pertes de temps, d'energie, de ressources et enfin la frustration de
1'emprunteur, lui-meme, frustration d'autant plus profonde qu'il ne dispose
d'aucune voie de recours contre les agissements de TASK managers
beneficiant de moyens de couverture importants au sein de leur institution.



37
APPENDIX B.
Page 9 of 12
MANQUE DE CAPACITE ADMINISTRATIVE
8. Selon le rapport d'evaluation, ce manque expliquerait une des faiblesses de
resultats.
9. Cette argumentation 6tonne, car le projet avait fondamentalement pour objet
le developpement de ces capacites pr#cis6ment. L'assistance technique devait
pallier ces insuffisances tandis que le programme de formation devait, de son
c6te, renforcer ces capacites. Ce volet important n'ayant pas ete ex6cutA,.on
ne saurait s'en servir comme critere d'evaluation.
PERENNITE DU PROJET
10. Toute l'argumentation contenue dans le rapport A ce sujet est injustifiAe car
elle s'appuie de fa,on demesuree sur la these d'une absence d'adhesion et de
volonte du Gouvernement a se desengager et A assainir le secteur des
Entreprises Publiques.
i1. De toute 6vidence, le Gouvernement est alle tres loin en matiere de
d6sengagement et avec ou sans les ressources du PATSEP, son option pour
le desengagement est irreversible.
12. En realite, le probleme qui demeure avec la cl6ture du PATSEP est celui du
rythme ou vitesse d'execution des operations de desengagement. Ce qui est
fonction des moyens disponibles.
PLAN DETAILLE DE DESENGAGEMENT
13. Le plan prepare par le Professeur Elliot BERG existe depuis Juillet 1995. II
a ete amende avec le concours des services de la Banque et est toujours
disponible. II reste simplement A trouver le financement pour sa mise en
oeuvre.
CONCEPTION DU PROJET
Selon le rapport, le PATSEP avait une portee trop ambitieuse et la structure
d'execution trop complexe. En fait, ii s'agissait simplement d'un projet
d'assistance technique pour renforcer les capacites institutionnelles et mener
les etudes et audits dans le but de mieux preparer le PESECAL.
Le choix de l'agence d'execution (la DNMPP) ne pouvait poser de problemes
car la cohabitation des Marches Publics et du Portefeuille n'a cree aucun
probleme de supervision. Cette cohabitation a plutot renforce les services du
portefeuille vis A vis des entreprises publiques, car celle-ci sont soumises au
code des marches publics.
En outre, contrairement A l'opinion exprimee dans le rapport, la presence de
I'ACGP dans le circuit de privatisation ne fragilise pas le dispositif institutionnel
du desengagement. L'exemple de la privatisation de la Sotelgui qui s'est
deroulee dans la transparence, le respect des procedures et sous l'egide du
Comite de Privatisation et du Comite de Coordination Economique et



38
APPENDIX B.
Page 10 of 12
Financiere demontre, s'il en etait besoin, toute l'utilit6 de la participation de
I'ACGP. Comme indique plus haut, ce processus a abouti au choix du meilleur
investisseur priv6.
POINTS DE CLARIFICATION
Quelques informations contenues dans le rapport, meritent d'etre reIevnes car
pouvant etre des sources de confusion. Ce sont:
1. Reorganisation de la DNMPP et creation du Comite de Privatisation au
paragraphe 18, il est affirme que la reorganisation de la DNMPP n'est
intervenue qu'en Novembre 1994, et quant au Comit6 de Privatisation, sa
cr6ation a eu lieu 6 mois avant la cl6ture du projet. II faut pr6ciser a ces sujets,
en se referant aux Aides Memoires produits a l'epoque de la mise en vigueur
du credit, que la DNMPP a ete reorganisee une premiere fois en 1992 et que le
Comit6 de Privatisation a et6 cr6e en 1993 avec une representation paritaire
des secteurs public et priv6. C'est suite aux recommandations du dernier TASK
manager qu'un acte a ete pris en 1995 pour recomposer le Comite de
Privatisation, en vue d'y faire figurer plus de repr6sentants du secteur prive.
2. Transparence des og6rations de orivatisation et respect des procedures
Selon le rapport, les principes de concurrence et de transparence ne sont pas
observes. Les cas de Soguitro, et Sotelgui sont cites en exemple. En
examinant ces cas on se rend compte que les faits contredisent cette
affirmation. Le cas de Sotelgui d6ja decrit plus haut illustre parfaitement ce
constat. Quant au cas de Soguitro, le Decret presidentiel pris en la matiere est
tout a fait conforme a la legislation en vigueur notamment la loi sur la
privatisation qui a re,u l'approbation pr6alable de la Banque avant son
adoption.
3. Au paragraphe 18, il est estime qu'aucune des entreprises ciblees en 1992
n'a reduit ses effectifs. Cette affirmation n'est pas applicable aux cas de
Sogetrag, Pharma-Guinee, Sotelgui, UMC, H6tel Gbessia, Proseco, Soguiplast,
Samco, pour ne citer que ccs cas caracteristiques qui sont largement connus.
4. Au paragraphe 18, toujours, il est fait mention du manque de proaramme de
formation pour les employes de la DNMPP. A ce sujet, il faut rappeler que les
cadres ont re,u une formation en analyse financiere et en evaluation des
entreprises sur les logiciels EXCEL et EVAL en 1994, de meme ils ont suivi un
seminaire juridique sur l'eaboration dLes statuts types des entreprises
publiques. En Mars 1995, 5 autres ont suivi le seminaire organis6 par
INTRADOS a Washington sur les privatisations. Le budget 1995, non approuve
par les services de la Banque, comportait enfin un important programme de
formation.
LEQONS TIREES
De la preparation, de 1'execution et de la supervision du projet, l'emprunteur a
eu une interessante experience qui lui permet de faire les observations
suivantes



39
APPENDIX B.
Page 11 of 12
10) La transformation du PESECAL en PATSEP s'est faite dans la precipitation.
Ce qui a conduit a l'eimination d'activites indispensables a la poursuite
harmonieuse et au succes du programme de desengagement. Aucun
financement n'6tait plus disponible pour I'appui a la gestion des entreprises
visees par le biais de l'assistance technique et la modernisation des
equipements et des methodes de travail, comme ce fut le cas de Sotelgui et
Enelgui avant leur privatisation et faire face aux indemnites de licenciement et
aux d&Jts des plans sociaux de reconversion/insertion.
20) 11 y a eu un manque de continuit6 dans la politique de la Banque,
notamment celle relative a l'assistance technique r6sidente. Tout d'abord, on
reduit un PESECAL en un projet d'assistance technique pour ensuite, quelques
mois plus tard, changer d'approche.
Ce manque de continuite s'est traduit aussi dans la succession de nombreux
TASK Managers ayant des points de vue divergents sur le meme projet. Et il se
trouve que ceux-ci changent les objectifs, les strategies d'execution et les
crit6res d'evaluation sans se ref6rer a une politique constante definie par leurs
hi6rarchies sup6rieures. Sans une r6vision profonde au sein de la Banque des
methodes de supervision de ces TASK Managers, I'emprunteur restera toujours
sans voie de recours devant ce manque de continuite et de constance.
30) Le choix des conditionnalites doit se faire de maniere realiste et dans le but
d'accroitre les chances de succes du projet. Dans le cas de ce projet, les
conditions de mise en vigueur etaient nombreuses et parfois pas n6cessaires
ou indispensables a la realisation du projet. Ce qu'il aurait fallu afin d'eviter de
raccourcir le delai effectif du projet apres I'approbation du credit.
40) La creation de nouvelles institutions exclusivement chargees de gerer
chaque projet con,u, au lieu d'appuyer et de renforcer celles qui existent, est a
eviter. Non seulement se pose le probleme de la survie de ces institutions a la
fin du projet, mais aussi cette pratique peut avoir pour consequence
d'empecher le developpement institutionnel.
Le Comite de Privatisation est une creation qui illustre bien ce constat. L'id6e
au depart, lors de la pr6paration du projet, etait de confier ce role au Comite de
Coordination Economique et Financiere et a sa cellule technique qui
l'assuraient deja pleinement avec la privatisation du secteur de l'importation et
de la distribution des produits petroliers et ENELGUI. Mais cette id8e a et6
abandonnee sur l'insistance de la Banque de creer un Comit6 de Privatisation
avec une participation majoritaire de representants du secteur prive non
r6muneres. A l'exp6rience on s'est rendu compte que ces repr6sentants du
secteur prive ne portaient pas un grand interet a ce genre d'exercice, les enjeux
etant trop complexes et difficiles a gerer pour eux. D'aucuns ont meme exige
une remuneration, ce a quoi evidemment une fin de non recevoir a et6
reservee.
50) Enfin la chance de succes d'un projet d6pend fondamentalement de l'esprit
de par.enariat base sur un minimum de confiance r6ciproque. Dans le cas de
ce projet, cet esprit a fait defaut. En effet au moment de la conception du projet
Ia Banque a exige la presence d'un grand nombre de priv6s au sein du



40
APPENDIX B.
Page 12 of 12
dispositff institutionnel de desengagement dans le souci de garantir la
concurrence et la transparence, faute d'avoir suffisamment conflance a I'Etat.
Aussi en depit de tous les efforts d6ploy6s et des resultats concrets obtenus
sur 26 des 46 Entreprises ciblees et aftest6es par avis d'expert independant
.(Rapport du Professeur BERG). Ia Banque persiste c douter de la volonte du
gouvemement de se d6sengager. MN1me si les resultats suivant certains
criteres sont estimes insuffisants, il y a la une attitude qui apparait Ltro en
contradiction avec la nouvelle approche pr6nee par la Banque, dont on parle
beaucoup et qui recommande a d'etre A 1'ecoute du client >.



14-                               ~~      ~      ~~~~~~~12  -;                     10                                              8            -
SENEGAL -                         -                       (
Koundara,
GUiNEA                       -- -n    -----e-~----                                                                                                                   
Maliundura.   ?J                                                          0N47  J  zyaga5ssola  M    A    L   I
-12                                                                    S                            Mali                                                                                             12
-                                           ~~~~~~MOYENNE                                                                               -
B I S S A U                           Gic                                                                               D,diENNE                   .81
BISSAU                          *Giul                                                                              Didi                 | 
Koubia
Lab~~~~       *To.g,e*
/        LLelouma            o              Dinguiroye                     Tk,nk'5sa     SiU ri
/                         o Sciqc,red,                  P                                                                                            U I N E E  G  U  IN  EE  Kaeko  Nindakoro 0
G  U I N EE                                                Dabol        ssrima     H A  U  TE
O Komsor                                          Daloba                           aKoousa                                           Mand,ona.
Fa OTonon                       Mansou                                                                                                 ' LKnka
Balfa             MARITIME                                                                                             KankNn,
Kindia®                                                  * Foranah                         GUINEE                        (                          10
Dubreka                  ,                                                                      M   mci
°                             S I E R R A   L E O  N E    \ 
A TL A  N  TI C   C         r       Farecariah       7                                             S -
OCEAN                                   KBeny              GAsid°jgo .
GUINEA ~
14'
MAURITANIA        I                       i)    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          GUINEE                      . Beyla              \
'                       ® /  _  _  g  i)   ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS  G' Guecdou            Macento
THE    SENEGAL                 MALI                           *    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                            ti                 *     FORESTlERE    r .                                   °
GAMBIA-'--         ,                                                PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
GUINEA-, )               8           /         8                 ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOIJNDARIES                                                                                C  C T E      8)
BISSAU.                              B GUINEAKIN Sl    FASO  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                I                                                                        C
Conakry* ,-~v  0           re>n 20ASi                                                                                                    Nzerek                             D'IVOIRE
SIERRA LEONE         >   COTE                                                                                                         o 100 ,00 ,f               ,', ,OI
r   D'IVOIRE   JKILOMETERS                                                                                  / mou
TE  NTIC  IBRI  \Th budaie clos,deomnaiosard nyarie i(OnrrinL I B E R I A                                                  "-
w    A r L A N r i c        LIBERIA a             \ >      sh,-wn ar thIs map do not -ipl, on the p-rt of The Wo-d Eo-k GouP 
0ACEANTI                                     >       0 ay udg~meo on the legal stTsof anY territory, orY an-edore-et                                IN 
o   O C E A N                                       or occeptonce of such boundaries                                                                              'N
-o                                      Gulf of Guinea                                                                          0--                                             8                           oa












