Document of               FIL           ON
The World Bank                               60pp
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2896-PH
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 30, 1980
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oin
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
.              . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit = Pesos (P.)
US$1100        = P 7.40 (January 1980)
P 1.00        = US$o.135
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is indicated
above.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
IMetric                                 British/US equivalent
1 meter (n)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)               = 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)          = 1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
= 0.98 British long tons (Ig ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
AADT       -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB        -  Asian Development Bank
ADT        -  Average Daily Traffic
BBR        -  Bureau of Barangay Roads of the MPH
BOC        -  Bureau of Construction of the MIPH
BON-I      -  Bureau of Maintenance of the MPH
BOT        -  Board of Transportation
B/C        -  Benefit/Cost Ratio
BRDP       -  Barangay Road Development Program of the MLGCD
ENK        -  Equivalent Maintenance Kilometers
ER         -  Economic Return
FYB        -  First Year Benefits
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -  Gross National Product
MIOTC      -  Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MOB        -  Ministry of Budget
MLGCD      -  Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MIPH       -  IMinistry of Public Highways
MPWTC      -  Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
NEDA       -  National Economic and Development Authority
NTSS       -  National Transport Systems Study
PDS        -  Provincial Development Staff
PEO        -  Provincial Engineer's Office
PDAP       -  Provincial Development Assistance Program
PPDO/IiPH   -  Planning and Project Development Office of the 1tPH
PPDO/MPWTC -  Planning and Project Development Office of the MIPWTC
RRP        -  Rural Roads Program of the MLGCD
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development
vpd        -  Vehicles Per Day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
General  . . . . . . .. .  .    .  .  .    . . . . . ...  .   .  1
Geographic and Demographic Setting . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Rural Sector . . . ..                    . . . . . . . . .      4
Transport Sector           .  . . . . . .   . . . .5
Transport Strategies            .. .14
Previous Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector . . . .    16
2.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR  . . ... . . . . . . . .                   19
The Network  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Stategy in the Highway Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Motor Vehicles and Traffic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Highway Expenditures and Revenues  . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Administrative and Institutional Aspects . . . . . . . .   25
Interagency Cooperation          . . . .  . .  . .      .     36
Sector Lending...                                             37
3.  THE PROJECT     .... . . . . . . . .    38
Objectives of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Description of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   38
Estimated Project Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . .   56
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
Procurement, Implementation Schedule and Right-of-Way  .    72
Disbursements ..74
Environmental Aspects.. .74
4.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION    . . . . . . . . ..76
Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . .   76
Traffic Analysis . . . ....................... .   ....  .    79
Construction and Maintenance Costs .  ..        . . . . .    80
Overall Economic Evaluation. . .  .  .       . . . . . . . . . .   80
5.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .  . . . . . .   82
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited the
Philippines in October/November 1979. The mission was composed of
Mr. L. Schiffman (Engineer) and Mrs. I. Bradfield (Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES IN TEXT                                                 Page No.
3.1    Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ANNEXES
1.   MLGCD and Provincial Governments - Action Program for Project
Implementation
2.   Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
3.   Economic Evaluation:  Assumptions and Methodology
4.   Supporting Tables and Charts
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
1.   IBRD 14858      - Location Map
2.   IBRD 14859      - Construction and Improvement of Rural Roads
3.   IBRD 11159R-1  - National Road Construction



PHILIPPINES
Staff Appraisal Report
RURAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. Introduction
A. General
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group assist-
ance in financing a rural-road /1 project. The Bank has previously financed
rural roads in the Philippines as a component of irrigation, multipurpose and
rural development projects. Implementation of the road component of these
projects has been carried out from the center largely thro'ugh the Ministry of
Public Highways (MPH) whose major responsibility is construction and
maintenance of national roads. This approach focused on the immediate need to
improve physical facilities but did not directly address the problem of
strengthening local institutions to implement the Government's
decentralization policy.
1.02      The proposed project represents the first Bank Group effort aimed at
directly assisting the provincial governments in carrying out road improvement
and maintenance programs under the overall guidance of the Ministry of Local
Government and Community Development (MLGCD). This effort would support the
Government's policy of expanding local government responsibility for the
planning, construction and maintenance of all local (rural) roads.
1.03      The Government's strategy to accomplish decentralization is to
greatly expand the ability of provincial governments to plan, construct and
maintain rural roads, and to improve the capability of MLGCD so that it can
effectively direct and train provincial staff and monitor their work. Over
the longer term, trained provincial staff would extend technical assistance to
the barangays (villages) to upgrade their planning and maintenance capability.
1.04      Initially, six provinces, representing a cross section of the
73 provinces in the Philippines, were selected for inclusion in the project.
These six provinces - Iloilo, Cebu, Quezon, Aklan, Camarines Norte and Ilocos
Sur represent differing conditions throughout the country and vary in their
fiscal and implementation capability, with Iloilo and Cebu being relatively
better off and further advanced than Quezon and Aklan, while Ilocos Sur and
Camarines Norte are among the poorest and the least developed provinces. A
project in these provinces would provide useful experience that can be applied
to all types of provinces in future road improvement programs.
1.05      While the project constitutes only a beginning in terms of meeting
the very large physical and institutional needs of the country, it would
provide the foundation for the long-term development of an effective, locally
/1 Refers to provincial, municipal, and barangay (village) roads.



-2-
based program for rural roads. This project is also one of a series of
projects now being developed by the Government and the Bank to increase the
capacity of local governments to provide and maintain the basic infrastructure
needed to encourage rural development in the Philippines. The Project was
prepared by MLGCD assisted by consultants and the Project and Program
Development Office (PPDO) of MPH.
B. Geographic and Demographic Setting
1.06      The Philippines cover some 297,000 sq km scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 45 million
(1978), growing at a rate of about 2.8% annually. Real GNP has recently
been growing 6% annually. Underemployment, unequal income distribution
and high population growth are major economic problems.
C. Rural Sector
1.07      Almost three quarters of the population in the Philippines live in
rural areas, where social services are poor, economic activities limited,
agricultural productivity low and underemployment high. Characteristics of
Philippine agriculture are the dominance of small farms and the widespread
tenancy, particularly among rice and corn farmers. The Government is giving
high priority to the economic development of rural areas and is complement-
ing its economic programs with actions designed to increase the share of
benefits that accrue to the small producer. These actions include agrarian
reform, improved provision for health care, extension and supervised credit
programs geared to the needs of small farmers, and farm-to-market roads.
1.08      Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about 30% of GDP and over-half of total employment. Other
sources of income and employment include forestry, fishing, mining, small-
scale manufacturing and service industries, but small farms provide the main
income for 65% of the rural population. Farming is chiefly oriented towards
food grain production (60% rice and 40% corn) for domestic consumption, while
coconuts and sugar are the main export crops. Beginning in the late sixties,
agricultural growth has been spurred by an increase in land productivity.
Increased agricultural yields were mainly due to double cropping, use of
high-yielding varieties, fertilizers and chemicals, and expanding irrigated
areas.
1.09      Rice, corn and coconut production account for almost 82% of all
farms, and almost 88% of the farm population depend on these crops for their
main source of income. Other important activities include sugar, abaca,
banana farming, livestock production, fishing, and forestry. Rootcrops and
other vegetables are grown widely for subsistence. From 1970 to 1978, value
added in agriculture, fisheries and forestry increased at an annual rate of
4.9%. Palay and corn are by far the two most important crops, accounting for
about 40% of the value of production, 55-60% of area, and about 70% of employ-
ment. Although its relative importance has decreased somewhat in the 1970s,



-3-
palay is still the most important crop in the Philippines; it is grown and
consumed in all regions and under all types of environmental conditions
(irrigated lowland, lowland rainfed and upland areas).
D. Transport Sector
1.10      In the last decade, the Philippines made significant advances in
the transport field, far exceeding any previous decade both in terms of funds
expended and results achieved. Annual public transport infrastructure
expenditures, representing about one-third of total public investment
outlays, increased rapidly from P 282 million in 1968 to P 2.9 billion
in 1978,/i with highways absorbing about 74% of the total. Of the
remainder, airports received about 10%, ports 9% and railways 7%. These
expenditures to improve the hitherto neglected transport system were
necessary to meet the increased demand for movement of goods and passengers
resulting from higher income, population and industrial and agricultural
production. As a result of the increased investment in highways, the road
network expanded rapidly and in 1979 encompassed 152,800 kms. For the first
time, it provided access to many important population centers in the
interior of the two largest islands, Luzon in the north and Mindanao in the
south, which together comprise about 70% of the country's land area /2 and
three-quarters of its population.
1.11      The preliminary 1980-83 projections for commodity flows and pas-
senger traffic indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of freight
and passengers between the food deficit areas of Luzon and the agricultural
surplus areas of Mindanao than for road transport within the major islands.
Accordingly, the Government plans to increase the shale of ports and airports
in the 1980-83 transport infrastructure investment program: 19% for ports,
14% for airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for highways. No significant
public funds are allocated for shipping investment since it is largely
financed by the private sector. During 1980-83, transport's share of public
investment is expected to decrease from the previous level of 30% to about 20%
of the total public infrastructure program because of increasing shares allo-
cated to the power sector to meet the country's energy requirements.
(a) Highways
1.12      Estimates based on preliminary data indicate that road transport
is the dominant mode, accounting for nearly 80% of passenger and more than
half of total freight traffic. Privately operated inter-island shipping,
serving a population scattered over hundreds of islands, appears to account
for nearly all of the remaining freight traffic since relatively short
inland distances and low traffic volumes have limited railways to a small
fraction of total freight traffic. Details of the highway sector are given
in Chapter 2.
/1 About 1.3% of GNP.
/2 300,000 sq km.



-4-
(b) Railways
1.13      The Government owned Philippine National Railways (PNR) has a
network on Luzon totalling 1,060 km, of which 740 km of main line and 80 km of
branch lines and sidings are operating. Most of PNR's track was relaid during
the 1960s with Japanese aid, but the roadbed is in very poor condition and
many bridges are unsafe. Management, maintenance and operations of the
railways have been inadequate. The main line is paralleled by highways for
most of its length and, as haulage distances for most commodities are
relatively short and scheduled services unreliable, the railway is not
presently competitive with trucks and buses. It is unlikely that this
situation will change in the near future.
1.14      The Government's present objective is to improve PNR operations to
permit the railroad to cover at least current operating costs. Programs under
the 1971-76 Rehabilitation Plan have improved services somewhat.  In 1977, PNR
obtained a loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to rehabilitate its
Southern Line (about 450 km), which serves the area between Manila and
Legaspi. A second railway, the privately owned Panay Railway, operates an
antiquated 117 km of track on Panay Island. It is presently unsafe but
scheduled for minimum rehabilitation to permit limited service.
(c) Ports
1.15      There are 18 major and 76 minor national ports, and about 390
municipal ports thri,ughout the Philippine archipelago, plus over 200 private
piers and wharves. Manila, the largest port, accounts for about 43% of the
23 million tons of cargo handled each year by public ports. Most long-
established public ports are located where natural protection is available
but sedimentation problems occur in many newer ports. More modern private
piers and wharves, which handle 80-85% of export shipments, are generally
located to take advantage of naturally deep water. Many public ports suffer
from inadequate work areas and transit sheds, antiquated cargo-handling
facilities, disorganized port operations and poor maintenance. The
cumulative effects of these deficiencies are congestion and confusion, which
unduly restrict the movement of cargo, and slow stevedoring and ship turn
around time.
1.16      In the past few years the Government has received assistance from
ADB for improvement of port facilities at Davao and Cotabato, from the Federal
Republic of Germany for port works at Davao and Iligan, and from the Bank for
the expansion of the Ports of Cagayan de Oro and General Santos under the
Second Port Project (Loan 993-PH)(para. 1.27). As a part of this project, the
Bank supported the establishment of the Philippine Port Authority (PPA).
Since it became operational in 1976, PPA has taken over the management and
operation of all national ports, expanded its technical staff and improved
accounting procedures with the assistance of Bank-financed consultants.
1.17      The Bank's objective in the port sector is to assist the PPA in
developing a national port policy, increasing port capacity to meet industrial



- 5 -
development in secondary urban growth centers, and improving administration,
operations, and planning for all major national ports. PPA's current
Investment Plan (1980-86) not only aims at increasing capacity at major ports,
but also at consolidating ports of various sizes and functions in outlying
areas where improved overland mobility makes economies of scale and effi-
ciency possible. The selection of ports for future improvement is determined
in the context of the traffic patterns of the total transport network, the
development potential of the hinterlands, and the natural conditions of the
harbors.
(d) Inter-Island and Coastal Shipping
1.18      Despite its status as an important transport mode for freight, the
potential of interisland and coastal shipping has not yet been fully realized,
mainly due to inadequate port facilities and the antiquated local shipping
fleet. There are about 480 inter-island vessels of over -100 gross tons, and
many more smaller ships. In 1978, more than 34% of the inter-island fleet
were 25 or more years old. Most smaller ships are converted naval or military
vessels, and overloading and prolonged journeys are characteristic. There are
about 50 Philippine inter-island vessel operators, but the majority of the
fleet is owned by only ten major firms. In addition to the inter-island
fleet, smaller craft provide low-cost, short-haul transport of agricultural
products for local as well as inter-island markets, and barges are used
extensively to move raw and refined sugar, rice, and other produce. Coastal
transport is frequently a logical alternative where cross-island road
construction is made difficult by mountainous terrain, and numerous roadsteads
and shallow water ports have been developed where land access is severely
limited.
1.19      The increasing regional specialization in production patterns and
rural development has given inter-island shipping a new impetus to play a
major role in the Government's plans for increased food production and
regional balance in economic and social development. The growing need for
food in deficit areas has to be met by increased production in surplus areas
such as Mindanao. This in turn requires efficient marine transport of both
agricultural inputs and outputs.
(e) Civil Aviation
1.20      Manila, the only major international airport in the Philippines,
is served by 20 international and regional airlines, including Philippine
Air Lines (PAL). The latter provides international services, and is the
principal carrier for 78 domestic airports operated by the Government.
Domestic passenger traffic has increased by about 12% p.a. over the past six
years, while air freight is still insignificant. With the assistance of a
US$26 million loan from ADB, the Manila International Airport is being
rehabilitated and extended to meet traffic demand expected by 1983.



-6-
(f) Transport Planning and Coordination
1.21      In addition to increased transport expenditures and system expansion
in the 1970s, the Government has taken important steps to improve the organi-
zational structure of the planning and administrative units responsible for
transport. These units have been substantially restructured since the major
Government reorganization initiated in 1972, which has resulted in a strength-
ening of the planning, implementation and operational capabilities of the
various transport agencies and to better coordination of planning
responsibilities.
1.22      Transport planning is now the joint responsibility of the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry of Transportation
and Communications (MOTC). As a central planning agency, NEDA has overall
responsibility for public capital investments through its Infrastructure
Program and Project Office, which reviews and approves investments proposed
by each transport operating agency. MOTC, which became operational in July
1979 with a small staff, is not yet fully equipped to discharge the functions
of intermodal transport planning, coordination and regulation. The Ministry
is still evolving and is in the process of expanding its staff and preparing
to absorb the transport planning functions now discharged largely by NEDA.
To assist MOTC in carrying out its tasks effectively, the project includes
funds to finance advisory services under the overall guidance of NEDA. They
will complement the technical assistance provided under Loan 1282-PH (Manila
Urban Development Project) to assist the Government in undertaking a National
Transport System Study in preparation for a ten-year transport investment
program. The study is scheduled for completion in late 1981.
E. Transport Strategies
1.23      Transport improvement programs are designed to promote the Govern-
ment's objectives of (i) increasing food production and rural incomes;
(ii) promoting regional balance in socio-economic development by establishing
growth poles away from Metropolitan Manila; and (iii) expanding industrial
production for domestic and foreign markets. The Government strategy, aimed
at increasing transport capacity so that it can meet the growing demand, has
both investment and operational dimensions.
(i) Investment strategies
1.24      The Government is in the process of formulating detailed investment
and operational strategies for each mode to provide an analytical framework
for project selection and transport operation. At the center, MOTC/NEDA are
assisted by foreign advisors to undertake review and evaluation of operating
agency proposals for their consistency with: (i) sectoral and overall
development objectives such as agricultural and industrial development;
(ii) financial resource availability; (iii) inter-modal efficiency; and
(iv) agency implementation capabilities.



7-
1.25      To enable MOTC/NEDA to carry out inter-modal planning functions, the
analytical capacity of transport agencies at the regional and provincial
levels must also be greatly strengthened. The Philippine a^-hipelago, with
its chain of over 7,000 islands, provides a strong case for delegating major
planning responsibilities to regions and provinces. The objective is the
assembly of relevant data and information by local planners to identify
specific transport problems, examine alternatives in terms of costs and
benefits and rank priorities on the basis of local knowledge. Effective
transfer and strengthening of local planning responsibilities can be
accomplished only in the long term. However, the Government has clearly
established the direction in which it intends to move.
(ii) Operational Strategies
1.26      In order to reduce the need for capital expenditures or, at least,
make it possible to postpone investment needs, the Government is making an
increasingly greater effort to improve the operational efficiency of exist-
ing facilities and administrative procedures. Plans are currently being
formulated to improve vehicle operations in Metropolitan Manila through a
comprehensive scheme of traffic management. Greater attention is being
focussed on the maintenance of roads and ports, and on a restructuring of
the management staffing and procedures for port operations and transport
regulation. These operational improvements would make existing and future
investments more productive and would yield much higher returns than
investments in new projects.
F. Previous Bank Assistance in the Transport Sector
1.27      The Bank Group's assistance to support the Government's efforts to
modernize and expand the transport sector included the First Port Loan
(290-PH) in 1961 amounting to US$8.5 million which financed procurement of
dredging equipment. In 1973, a Second Port Loan (939-PH) of US$6.2 million
was provided to assist the expansion of two important ports on Mindanao:
Cagayan de Oro in the north and General Santos in the south. The project is
about 98% complete. The Bank's FY80 transport lending program for the
Philippines includes a Third Port Project.
1.28      The Bank's First Shipping project was prepared to help modernize the
old inter-island fleet, provide technical assistance to strengthen planning
and administrative capabilities in the maritime industry sector and formulate
a ten-year investment program for inter-island shipping. Until recently,
implementation of this project has been delayed by institutional problems.
They related to the uncertainty about how various financial institutions would
handle interest rate issues and subloan administration and appraisal,
subborrowers' reluctance to assume foreign exchange risks, and a disagreement
about how ship safety inspection is to be undertaken. Some of these issues
are now being resolved, and accordingly, the rate of commitment has increased
substantially.



-8-
1.29      The highway sector has received the bulk of the Bank's lending for
transport in the Philippines: four loans (Loans 731-PH, 950-PH, 1353-PH and
1661-PH) totalling US$271 million have been made for the improvement of
important sections of national highways and connecting secondary roads, and
for a country-wide maintenance organization for national roads, including
improvement of workshops and procurement of maintenance equipment, spare parts
and workshop machinery (Map 14858). These projects have also helped to
develop the Philippine contracting industry and local consulting firms, which
gained valuable experience through their association with foreign
consultants on the design of the project roads.
1.30      The First Highway Project is fully disbursed although the small
portion deleted from the original construction contract due to civil
disorders in the area has not yet been completed by the Government. The
Second Highway Project is 99% complete. Problems in implementation, largely
due to a shortage of local funds and unsatisfactory performance by some
contractors, were overcome but resulted in a delay of about three years in
project completion. The Third Highway Project is about 30% complete. There
were some initial problems in the implementation of its maintenance compo-
nent but the government is now making satisfactory progress. Delays have
also been experienced in construction of the project roads, mainly due to
the use of unsatisfactory prequalification procedures. To avoid repetition
of this problem, the Government has agreed to adopt improved prequalification
procedures for this project, similar to those being used for the Fourth
Highway Project (para. 3.35). Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project
using improved prequalification procedures, began slowly in the latter half
of 1979 but there are no major problems. The Bank's future lending program
for transport includes a fifth highway loan, the components of which will be
defined on the basis of experience with ongoing projects.
1.31      The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the First Highway
Project concluded that problems during implementation were largely caused
by civil disturbances in the project area. Despite such problems, the
project's re-estimated economic return was satisfactory. The transfer of
responsibility for engineering and construction supervision from expatriate
consultants to local firms and the rapid increase in local staff employed
provided a good example of the possibilities in this field.



- 9 -
2. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01      The public road transport system in the Philippines is made up of
three major interlocking components: (a) national; (b) provincial, municipal
and city; and (c) barangay roads. The total network (Table 2.1) consists of
some 152,800 km of roads (1979I)of which 22,900 km are classified as
national, 29,000 km provincial, 13,400 km city and municipal, and 87,500 km
barangay roads. National roads include about 122 km of toll expressways with
grade separated intersections north and south of Manila. Except for the toll
roads, road classification is often arbitrary as it is not always based on
function. In remote areas such as northeastern Luzon and many parts of
Mindanao, national roads serve as penetration roads providing the only access
to the villages. In many parts of the country, provincial and barangay roads
are indistinguishable: both are characterized by a low volume of traffic and
serve limited influence areas, mainly providing the means for moving
agricultural inputs and outputs and connecting rural communities with
administrative and market centers.
2.02      Despite Government efforts since 1969 to develop a modern highway
network (Table 2.2), the system is still inadequate for the current level of
traffic. Although sufficient in location and extent, for the most part,
condition of the rcds is deplorable, and missing bridges effectively isolate
many rural communilies. Most unimproved roads are in poor condition (Table
3.1) due to: (a) deficient designs resulting in inadequate drainage,
embankment and pavements; (b) lack of proper maintenance; (c) damage from
frequent overloading (many of the trunk roads were built long ago and intended
to carry only a small number of light vehicles); and (d) insufficient funds to
repair flood damage caused during the rainy and typhoon seasons. Moreover,
vehicle operating and travel costs are generally high, as only 41% of the
national highways and 13% of the provincial roads are paved, (compared with
95% and 20% in Thailand); the rest are either gravel or unsurfaced.
B. Strategy in the Highway Sector
2.03    The strategy of Bank lending for highways has been to:  (i) increase
the capacity of the existing infrastructure; (ii) improve project preparation
and implementation capabilities; and (iii) develop an institutional framework
to carry out proper maintenance. Continued assistance in attaining these
objectives will be needed, primarily focusing on maintenance and institutional
development. A further objective of the Bank is to expand its participation
in improving the capability of farm-to-market and feeder roads to accommodate
motorized traffic and to help increase food production. Using rural roads
planning and construction as a vehicle, the Bank will assist the Government
in developing operational capability and improving financial management in
the provinces.



- 10 -
C. Motor Vehicles and Traffic
2.04    Between 1966 and 1978, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
325,000 to about 944,000 vehicles, /1 an average increase of about 10% p.a.
(Table 2.3). There are about 235,000 motorcycles and pedicabs. Composition
of the fleet in 1978 was 52% passenger cars and jeeps, 30% trucks, 8%
jeepneys, 2% buses and 9% other vehicles. About 50% of the total vehicle
fleet is registered in Central and Southern Luzon, and for the entire country,
there is about one vehicle per 60 inhabitants. Comparable figures in Korea
and Thailand are about 75 and 70. About 40% of the total fleet is registered
as commercial./2
2.05      Until recently, data on highway traffic growth were not collected
and analyzed on a regular basis. However, judging from increases in the
motor vehicle fleet and the volume of gasoline consumed by road transport,
traffic growth between 1966 and 1979 was substantial. Fuel consumption
during the period 1966-73 is estimated to have increased by 10% p.a. During
1973-75, traffic growth was slowed by an increase in oil prices. Since
1976, however, despite further increases in fuel prices, traffic has begun to
increase again with the growth of output and income (Table 2.4).
2.06      Under the Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loans 1353 and 1661-PH)
the Government began to implement a system for collecting, processing and
analyzing traffic data. As the Government undertakes traffic analysis
annually, it should be able to obtain reliable estimates of traffic growth.
D. Highway Expenditures and Revenues
2.07      During the 1967-78 period, total highway expenditures, including
administration and maintenance, increased approximately ten times in real
terms. Construction averaged 60-65% of total expenditures, maintenance about
25%, with the remainder being administrative costs (Table 2.5). In 1978 the
Government's total highway expenditures amounted to P2.9 billion, of which
about P 1 billion were for routine and periodic maintenance and
P 1.6 billion for construction, with the balance devoted to administrative
costs. The amount allocated for maintenance would have been adequate if more
efficiently used.
/1 Including motorcycles and pedicabs (motorized three-wheeled vehicles)
which constitute about 12% of all vehicles registered outside Metropolitan
Manila.
/2 The commercial fleet is underestimated because a number of vehicles
classified as cars and motorcycles are actually commercial vans, pickups,
pedicabs and other vehicles (e.g., jeeps) used for commercial purposes.
It is commonly observed, especially in rural areas, that privately-owned
jeeps and pedicabs are multi-purpose vehicles used for both passenger and
freight transportation. Outside of Metropolitan Manila, there is a higher
proportion of vehicles in the commercial category.



- 11 -
2.08       Highway revenues are obtained from specific road user charges which
include fuel oil taxes, motor vehicle fees, licenses, tolls and a common
carrier tax on their gross receipts. Between 1967 and 1978 revenues from
these charges increased tenfold (Table 2.6). A new annual energy tax was
introduced in 1975 to discourage private car ownership, in line with the
recommendations of the technical assistance consultants and the Bank. In 1978
revenues from road user charges (excluding import duties) amounted to
P 2.2 billion. In the same year, revenues from import duties and taxes were
a little over P 1 billion, of which P 136 million should be considered as
road user taxes since this amount represents an import surcharge on motor
vehicles above the normal rate levied on other consumer goods and machinery.
Including this surcharge, revenue from all road user charges fully covered
total maintenance expenditures and 70% of the construction costs (63% without
the surcharge).
2.09      The various road user taxes are collected by different government
agencies: the Bureau of Customs (BOC), Bureau of Indirect Tax (Ministry of
Finance) and Bureau of Land Transport (MOTC), each attempting to optimize its
revenue from these taxes. No reliable data exist on the short-run marginal
cost of highway use or on user charges by vehicle type. Without these data, it
is difficult to determine how various sized vehicles are contributing towards
covering their respective marginal costs through user charges, and thus the
extent of any subsidization or cross-subsidization among different vehicle
types. However, judging from the low level of diesel fuel taxes, it can be
assumed that heavy vehicles (10-12 tons), which normally use diesel fuel, and
which incur relatively more damage to the roads, may not cover their short-run
marginal cost. In order to understand the present situation better, the
Government is assembling relevant data with which to analyze the road user tax
structure and to formulate a comprehensive transport pricing policy.
E. Administrative and Institutional Aspects
2.10       Responsibility for planning, design, construction and maintenance
of the road transport system is divided, with some overlap, among the
National Government agencies and local authorities.
(i) National Roads
2.11       Responsibility for planning, constructing, and maintaining national
roads is vested in MPH, which was created in May 1974 from the former Bureau
of Public Highways. In May 1976, MPH was given the added responsibility of
supervising construction and overseeing maintenance of barangay roads.
Construction and maintenance of provincial, city and municipal roads are in
the hands of local and provincial authorities. However, when local roads are
constructed with funds from the National Treasury,/l MPH is required
/1 Refers to national funds appropriated under the "Aid to Provincial Road
Development Program" administered by MPH.



- 12 -
to provide technical assistance and construction supervision. MPH is headed
by a Minister, assisted by a Deputy Minister and four Assistant Ministers.
Construction and maintenance of national roads are the responsibility of 13
MPH Regional Offices, each headed by a Regional Director (Chart 19727).
2.12      MPH has offices at district and city levels.  The number of offices
within a region varies according to its size. There are a total of 149
districts and cities, each headed by a district or city engineer. The city
engineers function as MPH district engineers for national roads that pass
through city areas. The Bureaus of Construction (BOC) and Maintenance
(BOM), which are responsible for setting construction and maintenance
standards, supervise and monitor the work of the Regions and districts.
2.13      The Bureau of Equipment (BOE) is responsible for the management,
repair and maintenance of MPH's road construction and maintenance equipment.
Equipment is rented to MPH regions and district offices at preset rates which
are comparable to those in the construction industry. BOE has its own
regional equipment service offices, which directly control 12 base work-
shops /1 and a number of area workshops and mobile shops.
2.14      Although design, construction and maintenance of national roads are
in principle the responsibility of MPH's 13 Regional Offices, because of the
lack of capability, the Ministry has created a number of Special Project
Offices /2 (SPO's) to oversee the design and construction of externally funded
projects. These offices are part of the Bureau of Construction (BOC) at MPH
headquarters in Manila (Chart 19727). Under the direction of the
appropriate SPO, the design work is usually carried out by local or foreign
consulting firms, or occasionally through a Regional Office. Construction
work that is performed through contractors is administered and supervised by
the SPOs, generally by using consultants, but sometimes through Regional
Offices.
2.15      Maintenance.  Maintenance funds for national roads are disbursed
by MPH central headquarters to the 13 Regional Offices, after approval of
the annual budget predicated on the length (adjusted for type, condition and
traffic volume) of roads in each region. The Regional Offices, in turn,
allocate the funds to the various districts (and cities) on the same basis,
subject to the rather wide discretion of the Regional Director who also has
/1 There are only 12 workshops for the MPH's 13 regions as two regions (4A
& 4B) share one workshop.
/2 There are presently five SPOs: IBRD, Asian Development Bank (ADB),
Philippine-Japan Highway Loan (PJHL), Philippine-Australian Development
Assistance Program, and the Special Local and Other Foreign Projects
Office.



- 13 -
complete control over the disposition of all MPH road maintenance equipment
in the regional equipment pool. Actual maintenance work is carried out by
the District and City offices almost entirely by force account. A dialogue
is being carried out with the Government on the feasibility of increasing
the use of small contractors to deal with periodic maintenance.
2.16      The greatest weakness in the Philippines highway sector has been
inadequate road maintenance. Since the Bank's involvement in the highway
sector in 1970, it has observed a serious lack of attention to road mainte-
nance in the field. In an attempt to redress this situation, a maintenance
study was carried out, and a five-year maintenance program was formulated.
The Government is currently implementing this program under the Third and
Fourth Highway projects. Satisfactory progress is being made on a detailed
maintenance action program agreed with the Bank under the Fourth Highway
Project (Loan 1661-PH).  However, sustained efforts by MPH will be necessary
over a period of years before substantial physical improvements can be
expected.
(ii) Secondary Roads
2.17      The Provincial Governments of the 73 provinces in the Philippines
are responsible for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of some
29,000 km of provincial roads (1979). The 65 cities and 1,440 municipal /1
governments are similarly responsible for the approximately 13,400 km (1979)
of urban and rural recondary roads in their areas. These three local govern-
ment authorities op, rate under the general direction of the Ministry of Local
Government and Community Development (MLGCD)/2 which provides some funds,
advice and overall supervision.  Each province, city and municipal government
has an engineering office, responsible for all types of construction and
maintenance, including roads.
2.18      Project proposals for provincial, city and municipal roads originate
at the local level, where planning capability barely exists, and are coor-
dinated on a regional basis by the MLGCD (which maintains 13 Regional Offices
throughout the country). Funding is provided either from the budget of the
province, city or municipality or directly in the MPH budget by the National
Government when improvement of certain provincial roads is included in the
National Government's Aid to Provincial Roads Development Program.
2.19      Maintenance.  Maintenance of provincial, city and municipal roads
is the responsibility of the respective local government authority and a main-
tenance equipment pool is generally maintained by the Engineer's Office.
/1 The municipalities cover groups of rural population centers. They are
subunits of provinces. Cities, independent of provinces, deal directly
with the National Government.
/2  Except for Metro Manila.



- 14 -
Funds are provided partly from the local government budget and partly through
grants 11 from the National Government. The maintenance funds from the
National Government, however, are channelled to local governments through MPH,
which has been specifically directed by the President to: (a) set nationwide
maintenance standards; (b) establish planning requirements and control
procedures; (c) release maintenance funds; and (d) monitor the financial and
physical aspects of all road maintenance activities.
2.20      In addition to MPH, MLGCD is also responsible for monitoring the
maintenance activities of the provinces. However, very little monitoring is
actually performed. This is due to the lack of available supervisory staff
and to the ill-defined maintenance operations and practices of the provinces
which MPH and MLGCD are supposed to monitor. Without proper monitoring of
physical work and expenditures, it is often difficult to judge if all the
funds allocated for maintenance are actually expended for the intended
purpose.
2.21      Added difficulties result from the provinces' lack of essential
items of maintenance equipment, hand tools, and workshop facilities to service
and repair equipment. The combined result of these factors is that
maintenance of provincial roads is sadly neglected. To rectify this problem,
the project includes the procurement of maintenance equipment, construction or
improvement of workshops, and technical assistance to strengthen the
managerial capacity of the project provinces and improve the work of
maintenance crews. Moreover, MPH and MLGCD are expected to better define
their responsibilities (para. 2.28) and improve their gu:idance and monitoring
functions with the assistance of advisors financed by the Bank.
(iii) Barangay Roads
2.22      The third and lowest tier in the Philippine road system is made up
of the barangay roads, consisting of about 87,500 km (1979). The barangay is
the smallest political subdivision in the Philippines. Nationwide, there are
about 35,000 barangays, averaging about 20 to each municipality or city.
There are about 20 municipalities to each province. Each barangay has a
population of at least 1,000 and has its elected or appointed Barangay Captain
and its Council.
/1 Grants are provided on the following basis:
Local            National
Government        Government
Classification                funds             grants
Provincial roads               33%                67%
City roads                     67%                33%
Municipal roads                40%                60%



- 15 -
2.23      Project proposals for barangay roads originate at the barangay
level and are coordinated first on a District or City level by the MPH
District Office or the City Engineer's Office, then on a Regional basis by
the MPH Regional Office and finally, on a national basis by MPH headquarters
in Manila through its Bureau of Barangay Roads (BBR). Normally, the coordi-
nation consists of an aggregation of project proposals that are considered
acceptable by successive review levels.
2.24      Despite this arrangement, MLGCD is also involved in the planning,
design and construction of barangay roads, due to its overall monitoring and
support functions of all local government units. Through its
Grants-in-Aid (GIA) and Development Fund Programs, MLGCD provides financial
assistance to the barangays for construction works and performs a review and
monitoring function as well as providing technical assistance. Additionally,
through its Barangay Roads Development Program (BRDP), MLGCD attempts to
plan, coordinate and monitor the nationwide barangay roads construction
program being carried out by MPH.
2.25      Some of the barangay roads are improved as "self-help" projects with
materials and some equipment provided by MLGCD through the GIA facility. The
work is performed by the barangay people under the direction of the Barangay
Captain with technical assistance provided by MLGCD, the province, the
municipality or the MPH District Office. Other barangay road improvements are
undertaken by the Municipality or the City, using funds provided by MLGCD from
its Development Fund and are carried out by force account under the super-
vision of the Municipality or the City using barangay labor or by small
local contractors. Still others are improved by the MPH District Office
through force account using barangay labor, by small local contractors, or by
arrangement ("Pakyaw" contract /1) with a private contractor, the barangay or
the municipality, with funding from the barangay roads program of the National
Government. Funds for the design and construction of externally-assisted
barangay road projects are channelled by MPH's BBR through the Barangay Roads
Division of the MPH District Office or City Engineer's Office which carries
out the design and construction work by force account, through small local
contractors or by "pakyaw" contracts.
2.26      Maintenance.  Regardless of the system used for design and
construction, maintenance of barangay roads is the responsibility of the
barangays. Funds for this purpose (presently P 4,500 per km) are provided
by the National Government through the MPH (BBR) directly to the barangays./2
A1 A negotiated contract whereby MPH provides equipment and materials and the
local government unit or a private contractor provides the labor force.
/2 The funds are held in trust by the Municipal Treasurers, and released
on the joint authorization of the Barangay Captain and the MPH District
Engineer.



- 16 -
The MPH District Office is required to provide direction and technical
assistance, and barangay labor is used to do the work. Under the Bank Group's
Philippine Rural Infrastructure (PRIP) Project (Credit No. 790-PH) mainte-
nance equipment for some districts is being procured. This equipment will be
controlled by the MPH District Office but the Government has agreed that it
would be used solely for maintenance work on barangay roads.
(iv) Basic Organizational Responsibilities for Roads
2.27      MPH, the recognized technical highway authority, is responsible for
planning, constructing and maintaining the national highway system, and
providing technical assistance to other agencies of Government. Provincial
Engineering Offices, (PEOs) with development guidance from MLGCD, are directly
responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining the provincial highway
system,/1 In addition, Both MPH and MLGCD have barangay road assistance
programs. The BBR in MPH is large, with more than 100 employees at its
headquarters in Manila. The unit in MLGCD is relatively pew with much fewer
employees. Basic objectives of the two ministries concerning rural roads are
consistent but definitions of authority and responsibility are not.
2.28      As part of the process of rationalizing the relationship between
MLGCD and MPH and delegating the responsibility for administering rural roads
to MLGCD, a series of memoranda of agreement concerning construction and
improvement of rural/2 roads are presently being drawn up between MPH, MLGCD,
the M1inistry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of the Budget (MOB) and the
project provinces. Under these agreements, MPH will have responsibility for
setting standards and, for a transitional period, will provide technical
assistance to MLGCD and the provinces. MLGCD will monitor physical
implementation and expenditures by the provinces and provide technical
assistance to the provinces. The provinces will have full authority to
plan, program and execute maintenance of all local roads (except for city
roads). During negotiations, the Government agreed that satisfactory
memoranda will be agreed between the Government and the Bank prior to loan
effectiveness. In addition, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the agreed memoranda would be signed by December 31, 1980 and that
their provisions would be carried out in accordance with timetables and
programs satisfactory to the Bank.
2.29      The objective of this move is to gradually hand over to local agen-
cies responsibilities for planning, construction and maintenance of all local
roads, with MLGCD performing a coordinating and monitoring function. The
major objective of MlGCD is to assist local agencies of government in
developing their own capabilities with the local roads program of MLGCD as a
major means towards realizing that objective. The project includes a
technical assistance program to improve the capability of MLGCD so that it can
/1  Municipal and city roads form part of this secondary road network.
/2 Refers to provincial, municipal and barangay (village) roads. Memoranda
of Agreement concerning maintenance of these roads have already (Decem-
ber 11, 1979) been concluded and signed, and are satisfactory to the
Bank.



- 17 -
effectively monitor and supervise the work undertaken by the provinces as well
as train the provincial staff in the near term. Over the longer term, trained
provincial staff would in turn extend technical assistance to the municipali-
ties and barangays to build up their planning and maintenance capability. The
major functions of MPH would be the planning, construction and maintenance of
national highways, and the provision of technical assistance to MLGCD and the
provinces, particularly in the field of contract administration, design
standards and quality control. Technical assistance consultants to be
financed under the project and who would work under the direction of MLGCD,
would draw upon the expertise and experience of MPH in formulating their
work program to assist MLGCD and the project provinces.
F. Inter-Agency Cooperation
2.30      During project preparation, extensive discussions took place with
officials of USAID and ADB, with a view towards coordinating the work of
these lending agencies involved in rural roads in the Philippines. Although
ADB's operations thus far have exclusively used MPH as the implementing
agency, USAID has long been involved in developing local government
capabilities through its Provincial Development Assistance Program (PDAP).
Under this program USAID provides technical assistance to MLGCD and
participating provinces and reimburses up to 75% of the capital costs for
satisfactorily completed road projects. Design and construction are carried
out by force account or contract through local government engineering offices,
with coordination an, monitoring by MLGCD.
2.31      The proposed project complements the work of USAID.  Officials of
both USAID and ADB expressed an interest in following similar procedures
adopted for the project on (i) the project evaluation methodology; (ii) imple-
mentation of construction work by contract; and (iii) the reimbursement scheme
designed in accordance with varying fiscal capabilities of the provinces
rather than the uniform 75% reimbursement.  ADB is considering an extension of
the technical assistance program to MLGCD under the same terms of reference
when the two-year term of the Bank-financed advisors expires. This would
take place under an ADB-financed technical assistance program of transport
advisory services to be provided to a number of provinces.
G. Sector Lending
2.32      The sector lending approach is particularly suitable for rural
roads as it is impractical for the Bank to closely supervise short stretches
of low standard roads scattered throughout the country. However, the institu-
tions involved are not yet sufficiently strong to allow for this type of
approach. For this reason, the present project places a primary emphasis on
strengthening the institutions dealing with local roads. This will enable
sector lending to be adopted in the future for low cost, rural road projects
in the Philippines.



- 18 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives of the Project
3.01      The objectives of the project are to:  (i) improve high priority
rural roads through reconstruction, restoration and improved maintenance;
and (ii) strengthen planning, administrative, engineering and maintenance
capabilities of provincial highway authorities under the overall direction
of MLGCD. The project also includes reconstruction and improvement of the
national road in Occidental Mindoro to provide all-year road access to the
island's western coastal area where substantial investments in the agricul-
tural sector are planned. The project was prepared by MLGCD assisted by
consultants and by the Project and Program Development Office (PPDO) of MPH.
B. Description of the Project
3.02      The Project consists of:
1. Construction and Maintenance of Rural Roads
(a) Construction and improvement of approximately 730 km of provincial
and barangay roads in the six provinces of Iloilo, Cebu, Aklan,
Quezon, Camarines Norte and Ilocos Sur (Map 14859 and Table 3.6).
(b) Maintenance program for the six provinces: (i) construction and
improvement of provincial workshops and quality control
laboratories (Table 3.7); and (ii) procurement of road maintenance
equipment (including spare parts), tools, and machinery for
provincial workshops and quality control laboratories (Tables 3.8
and 3.9);
(c) procurement of engineering tools and equipment, training apparatus
and supplies for MLGCD and the six provinces (Tables 3.10 and
3.11);
(d)  technical assistance to:  (i) tLGCD and the six provinces for
improved transport planning, engineering, quality control,
construction supervision, and maintenance (Table 3.13) and
technical and on-thejob training in road maintenance (Table 3.12);
and (ii) MLGCD and PPDO/MPH for retroactive financing of services
provided to prepare this project, including traffic surveys and
analyses; and
(e) consulting services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision of (a) and (b) above, and for feasibility studies
to prepare a future rural roads improvement project.
2. Construction and Improvement of National Roads
(a) Reconstruction and improvement of approximately 90 km of national
and 60 km of provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro (Map No.
111594) ;



- 19 -
(b) construction of new facilities for the MPH Soils and Materials
Quality Control Service (SMQCS); and
(c) consulting services for construction supervision of (a) above and
for detailed engineering and construction supervision of (b) above.
3. Technical Assistance to MOTC/NEDA for continuation of transport
advisory services (Table 3.13).
(a) Construction and Improvement of Rural Roads
3.03      The project roads (Table 3.6) are impassable for part of the year
with extremely rough and narrow surfaces. Inadequate drainage, poor
original design and construction and little or no maintenance have caused
rapid deterioration of surfaces even under very light traffic. These roads
would be restored or upgraded to all-weather, all-year standards, largely
following existing alignments. Where necessary, bridges would be
strengthened or replaced and embankments would be raised to reduce damage
during floods. All roads would have improved drainage and cross drainage
structures; subgrades would be properly drained using appropriate materials;
and roadway surfacing would be protected by roadside berms or shoulders.
Some of the more heavily traveled sections would have bituminous stabilized
surfaces.
3.04      About 200 km of barangay roads are located in Iloilo to support
the Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo) Project (Loan 1815-PH). Of this total,
70 km are already included for Bank financing (Table 3.6). The Government,
using its own resources, will rehabilitate, restore or improve the remaining
130 km, utilizing labor-based methods. The 130 km includes about 50 km of
barangay roads to be improved using barangay labor, a minimum of equipment
and a labor-intensive construction system. Labor-based methods are also
expected to be applied in carrying out maintenance operations: clearing
ditches, controlling vegetation, and transporting and spreading materials.
In order to help improve efficiency and identify new areas where improved
labor-based methods could be applied, the provinces will be assisted by
technical assistance advisors. The Bank is expected to provide additional
assistance during project supervision in determining means, methods, and
practices of increasing the labor/capital ratio wherever appropriate in road
construction and maintenance works. Except for the technical assistance
consultants included in the project, this work will be financed with funds
provided by the Government. Assurances were obtained that required local
funds would be made available on a timely basis, and that the details of the
program, an action plan for its implementation, and the terms of reference
for the technical assistance consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 20 -
(b) Maintenance Program
3.05      The previous highway projects in the Philippines addressed the
problem of maintaining national highways. In this project, the focus is on
proper maintenance of provincial and barangay roads. At present, the-
provinces do not have essential equipment and tools to properly carry out
their road maintenance function; workshop facilities to service and repair
equipment are grossly inadequate; there is no proper organizational set up
or staff capable of performing the required tasks; maintenance operations
and procedures are ill defined; quality control of maintenance materials is
nonexistent; and funds allocated for maintenance, while generally adequate,
are not efficiently expended for maintenance. To rectify these problems,
the project includes: (i) the procurement of road maintenance equipment,
tools, machinery, soils and materials testing equipment and parts and com-
ponents for existing salvageable equipment; (ii) construction or improvement
of workshops and quality control laboratories; and (iii) technical assis-
tance to assist the provinces with maintenance planning, management practices,
operations, workshop and equipment management, and spare parts control.
(c) Procurement of Other Equipment
3.06      To assist MLGCD and the provincial authorities to carry out their
responsibilities more efficiently, the project includes: (i) procurement of
technical tools, apparatus and office equipment for MLGCD and the Provincial
Development Staffs (PDSs) and Provincial Engineers Offices (PEOs) (Table
3.10); and (ii) procurement of training apparatus, equipment and supplies
for MLGCD's training unit (Table 3.11).
3.07      Prior to actual procurement, the list of goods to be purchased and
the improvements to be made to the workshops and laboratories under
the project will be reviewed in detail by the provinces and MLGCD with the aid
of the technical assistance advisors to be appointed under the project. The
final list will be submitted for Bank review and agreement prior to initiating
procurement action or letting civil works construction contracts.
(d) Technical Assistance for Institution Building
MLGCD
3.08      MLGCD has the major responsibility for providing guidance and moni-
toring of development activities by the local authorities. With the increas-
ing emphasis placed on the Government's decentralization policy, MLGCD could
emerge as the key institution to help implement this Government objective in
the field of rural road improvement and maintenance. Presently, however,
MLGCD lacks the resources and the capability to properly coordinate, super-
vise or monitor an expanded rural roads program due to inadequate facilities
and a shortage of competent staff. MLGCD needs staff in the various disci-
plines necessary to undertake contract administration, monitor construction
and maintenance activities of local governments, prepare a national local
road improvement program, advise on financial management and to train
provincial staff. The technical assistance component of the project was
thus tailored to the needs of MLGCD to enable its various units to assume
greater responsibility.



- 21 -
3.09      With the assistance of consultants, MLGCD has completed a study
to determine actions required to improve organization and management proce-
dures of MLGCD and the PEOs. The major recommendations of this Organization
and Management Study (see Project File), which was completed in November
1979, have been accepted by the Government and are to be implemented, in
consultation with the Bank, in accordance with an agreed action program
(Annex 1). MLGCD has already changed its internal structure to bring res-
ponsibility for all rural roads under one manager (Chart No. 21430),
regardless of the source of funding. Although major improvements in MLGCD
are required, a beginning has been made with this change in organizational
structure. It now has the skeleton of the staff necessary to expand,
organize and improve its operations. The project includes 144 manmonths ol
technical assistance (six technical experts for a two-year period - Table
3.13) to assist NLGCD in carrying out necessary improvements to the
Ministry's organization and management (Annex 1) and to help improve
programming, feasibility studies, financial management, road maintenance,
design standards and procedures, equipment management systems and contract
administration. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government will make necessary improvements, in consultation with the Bank,
to the organization and management practices of MLGCD and the provinces,
including recruitment and appointment of suitably qualified staff to fill
key positions.
3.10      The experts will initially assist the Ministry staff in performing
their duties, gradually taking a less active role so that the Ministry staff
would eventually carry on their operations independently, with the experts
performing only n advisory role. MLGCD will coordinate the work of the
technical assistarice advisors and the consultants appointed to carry out
rural road feasibility studies in preparation for a future rural road
improvement project. Further details and outline terms of reference for
this technical assistance are presented in Annex 2. Terms of reference were
agreed with the Government during negotiations and assurances were obtained
that the qualifications and work program of the technical assistance
advisors will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Provincial PDSs and PEOs
3.11      MLGCD would provide supervisory and monitoring functions, but the
actual work would be carried out by the project provinces. However, the
capacity of these provinces/i to plan, design, construct and maintain rural
roads is generally inadequate. Among the six included in the project, some
planning and engineering capability is found in Iloilo and Cebu and to a
lesser extent, in Aklan and Quezon. Camarines Norte and Ilocos Sur are the
weakest of the six. None of the provinces has any appreciable experience in
dealing with consultants or contractors, in soil investigation, materials
exploration, quality control, cost estimating or in other important facets
of road engineering and construction. The Project thus includes 9 experts
/1 In common with virtually all other provinces in the Philippines.



- 22 -
(216 man-months - Table 3.13) who would provide assistance to: (i) the PDS
of each province for feasibility studies, transport planning, budgeting and
programming to help prepare a transport development plan; and (ii) PEOs for
design, detailed engineering, contract administration, construction
supervision, road maintenance planning and procedures, equipment usage and
operation, and workshop operations, including spare parts control.
3.12      At the beginning /1 of their assignment, the experts would assist
the provincial staff to effectively carry out the greater responsibilities
now being placed at the provincial level. After initially working together
with the experts, provincial personnel would gradually begin to operate
independently with the experts acting only as advisors. Under MLGCD coordi-
nation, each advisor would divide his time between two of the six provinces,
allocating a higher percentage of time available to the less capable units.
Should it prove desirable, the experts would provide assistance, at the
request of MLGCD, to other provinces not presently included in the project.
Further details and outline terms of reference for this technical assistance
are given in Annex 2. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government on the terms of reference and assurances were obtained that
the qualifications and work program of the technical assistance advisors
will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Training
3.13      Technical assistance for training, extended to MLGCD and the
provinces, will further promote the institution building objective of the
project. A training unit will be set up within MLGCD, and technical
assistance advisors (48 man-months) appointed to develop a training program,
utilizing and adapting systems and materials already developed by MPH for
the national road program. Training will be carried out at the provincial
level by the Provincial Engineers Offices (PEOs), and MLGCD's training unit
will provide materials and equipment and would train the PEO teachers. The
project also includes advanced technical training and overseas study tours
(Table 3.12) for selected permanent staff of the provinces and MLGCD.
During negotiations, required regulations for implementation of this program
were agreed with the Government and assurances were obtained that the
detailed arrangements for the program will be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.14      On-the-Job Training.  To provide practical action-oriented training
in proper road maintenance methods and procedures and to emphasize the use
of appropriate technology in road maintenance operations, the project
includes 72 man-months of technical assistance over a two-year period (Table
3.12). These advisors would assist MLGCD in establishing a special Training
Production Unit (TPU), staffed by two local specialists experienced in road
maintenance, augmented by an expatriate expert. This unit would train the
seconded staff (minimum period 12 weeks) from the PEO maintenance divisions
on sample lengths of existing rural roads. This training unit system, if
successful, would become a permanent part of MLGCD's training program, to be
replicated in other provinces.
/1 The advisors to the PEOs are scheduled to take up their duties beginning
in January 1981, allowing time for the provinces to recruit and appoint
satisfactorily qualified counterpart staff and to procure needed facili-
ties, tools and equipment (Chart 21374).



- 23 -
3.15      The training effort would be monitored and appraised by MLGCD,
with the help of the technical assistance training advisors appointed under
this project, in order to determine its effectiveness and needed
modifications. At the end of two years, it is expected that the participat-
ing provinces would be able to function with only general guidance and
supervision from MLGCD. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that the details of the training program, its timing and
approach, and the terms of reference of the training consultants will be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) Consulting Services
3.16      Provincial and Barangay Roads.  Detailed engineering and construc-
tion supervision for the provincial and barangay project roads would be
undertaken by the PEOs assisted by local consultants in accordance with
guidelines to be issued by NLGCD, taking into account conditions peculiar to
particular provinces and promoting the use of labor-based construction
methods wherever feasible. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with the Government on the terms of reference for the consultants and
assurances were obtained that the qualifications and work program of the
consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.17      Workshops.  Design and construction supervision of workshop
improvements would be undertaken by the PEOs assisted by local consultants.
The consultants would also review prequalification applications, prepare bid
documents and evaluate tenders received, subject to final examination and
approval by MLGCD. The consultants would provide an adequate, full-time
supervision staff for each workshop site where improvements would be under-
taken, and a coordinating control group at their main office. Assurances
were obtained from the Government during negotiations that the qualifi-
cations, terms of reference and work program of the consultants will
be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.18      Feasibility Studies.  Under the project, consultants will under-
take studies, with emphasis on institutional improvements in preparation
for a future rural roads improvement project in an additional 20 provinces,
continuing the work begun under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1661-PH).
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference
and assurances were obtained that the qualifications of the
consultants would be satisfactory to the Bank.
(f) Construction and Improvement of National and Provincial Roads
in Occidental Mindoro
3.19      The project includes the construction and improvement of about
150 km roads /1 in the Province of Occidental Mindoro linking San Jose and
/1 Approximately 90 km of national and 60 km of provincial roads. The
provincial roads will be reclassified to national status after
improvement.



- 24 -
Mamburao along the western coastline of the island of Mindoro. Also
included is an access road in San Jose to the port area and a connecting
road from the town center south to the existing provincial road (Map No.
11159RI). These roads were originally proposed for inclusion in a Second
Integrated Mindoro Rural Develpment Project to serve fertile agricultural
areas which now have access, during part of the year, only by sea. The
Government and the Bank subsequently agreed to finance the essential
elements, irrigation and roads, in separate project loans. The irrigation
component is being financed under the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan
1809-PH). The road component, which is essential for the success of the
irrigation project, is proposed for inclusion in this project. The proposed
improvements would be constructed to MPH standards mostly on existing
alignments (Table 3.4). Bridges would be constructed or replaced where
necessary, with overflow structures used wherever feasible. Pavements would
be bituminous surface treatment or gravel depending on expected traffic
volumes. On some sections, embankments would be placed or raised to reduce
damage from the expected severe flooding in this area. All road sections
would have adequate drainage and cross drainage structures. The port spur
road and town center access road would have asphalt concrete pavement with
stabilized shoulders to accommodate the heavy volume of anticipated traffic
in the urban area. Detailed engineering, financed under Loan 1102-PH, was
carried out by an expatriate consultant firm and later was reviewed and
modified by MPH to a lower standard in accordance with expected volumes of
traffic. Detailed engineering and contract documentation has been completed
by MPH, assisted by consultants. Construction supervision will be
undertaken by a consulting firm.
(g) Soils and Materials Laboratory for MPH
3.20      Under Loans 1353-PH and 1661-PH some equipment was financed to
help modernize the MPH's Soils and Materials Quality Control Service
(SMQCS). However, its present facilities are entirely unsuitable for a
Central Laboratory serving the entire country which performs soils and
materials testing, foundation engineering and construction quality control
for all government agencies. For this reason, the Project includes the
construction of properly planned and adequately equipped facilities for the
SMQCS.
(h) Consulting Services to MPH
(i) New MPH Central Soils and Materials Laboratory
3.21      Design and construction supervision for the new MPH Central Labora-
tory facilities will be undertaken by consultants. During design, close
coordination would be maintained between the consultants and the SMQCS. The
technical assistance experts appointed under the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1661-PH) for MPH will provide advice and assistance. During negoti-
ations, assurances were obtained from .the Government that the qualifications
of the consultants, their prior experience, the terms of reference and the
consultant's work program will be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 25 -
(ii) Construction Supervision of Roads in Occidental Mindoro
3.22      Construction supervision of the roads in Occidental Mindoro will
be undertaken by a consulting firm.  The consultant will also assist MPH
with the piequalification of contractors and during bidding and evaluatio-a.
Local consulting firms, if selected, would be expected to recruit experi-
enced expatriates to fill key positions. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that the qualifications, proposed supervision
organization, terms of reference and consultant's work program will be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(i) Technical Assistance to MOTC/NEDA
3.23      In addition, 124 man-months of technical assistance (Table 3.13)
has been included in the project to continue the ongoing transport planning
advisory services (para. 1.24) financed by the Bank under previous projects.
Agreement was reached with the Government prior to negotiations on the triems
of reference for the consultants. Their qualifications and work program are
satisfactory.
C. Estimated Project Cost and Financing
3.24      The total cost of the project, including land acquisition, is
estimated at about P 776 million or US$105 million equivalent.   This
includes physical contingencies of 10% on all items. Overall, physical and
price contingenci s combined represent about 27% of the total project costc0'
The proposed loan of US$62 million would finance 59% of the total project
cost, including US$43.5 million foreign exchange costs and US$18.5 million
equivalent of the total local costs. The foreign exchange cost is estimated
at 41% and local costs to be financed, at 18%, of the total project cost,
including US$108,000 equivalent of retroactive financing for consulting
services for project preparation work undertaken after July 1, 1979 by MPH
and MLGCD, including the cost of traffic surveys and analyses. The local
cost financing has been provided in accordance with the Bank's policy of
financing up to 60% of the total project cost in the Philippines to help
ease the country's balance of payments problem. The Bank would finance 30%
of the local cost of civil works and 100% of technical assistance, training
and consulting services. The Government would finance the balance (US$42.9
million equivalent) of the total local cost of US$61.4 million equivalent plun
taxes./2 Detailed cost estimates are given in Table 3.5 and are summarized
below.
/1  Inflation, during the project implementation period, has been assumed to
be, as follows: For Local Costs, 16% for 1980, 10% for 1981 and 7% p.a.
thereafter; for Foreign Costs, 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982
and 7% p.a. thereafter.
/2  MPH and MLGCD are, however, effectively exempt from taxes and duties
for direct purchases.



Table 3.1: SUMIIARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign   Total  Bank       Local  Foreign   Total  Bank           %
Project Components                            cost   exchange  cost   share    cost   exchange  cost   share    Bank
Item            Description                       -------- (P million) --------   ------- (US$ million) --------  financing
A. Implementation through ILGCD
1. Construction and Improvement of
Rural Roads (722 km)                       159.9    57.0    216.9  112.2    21.7         7.6     29.3   15.1        52
2.  Provincial Workshops and Laboratories          3.7      2.0       5.7    2.8      0.5      0.3       0.8    0.4       50
3.  Procurement of Maint. Tools & Equipment        2.2    56.5       58.7   56.5      0.3      7.6       7.9    7.6       96
4.  Procurement of Other Equipment                    -     8.1       8.1    8.1        -      1.1       1.1    1.1      100
5.  Tech. Asst. to MLGCD & Provinces                  -    22.1      22.1   22.1        -      3.0       3.0    3.0      100
6.  Training for MLGCD and Provinces                1.2     5.6       6.8    6.6      0.1      0.8       0.9    0.9       97
7.  Consulting Services                           14.8    11.1       25.9   25.9      2.0      1.5       3.5    3.5      100
B. Implementation through MPH
1. Construction & Improvement of
National & Provincial Roads
in Occidental Mindoro (155 km)              81.0    44.0    125.0   62.5    10.9        6.0      16.9    8.4        50
2. Construction of new MPH Central Soils
& Materials Laboratory                       7.4    11.1      18.5   11.1       1.0     1.5       2.5    1.5        60
3.  Tech. Asst. & Consulting Services               1.5     9.2      10.7   10.7      0.2      1.2       1.4    1.4      100
C. Implementation through MOTC/NEDA
1.  Technical Assistance (124 m/m)                  -       9.5       9.5    9.5        -      1.3       1.3    1.3      100
Subtotal (A to C)                           271.7   236.2    507.9  328.0    36.7    31.9         68.6   44.2        64
D. Contingencies
1. Physical                                       27.2    23.6      50.8   32.8       3.7      3.2      6.9    4.4        64
2. Price                                          92.5    62.2    154.7   99.2    12.5         8.4     20.9   13.4        64
Subtotal (D)                                119.7    85.8    205.5  132.0    16.2    11.6         27.8   17.8        64
Total (A to D)                              391.4   322.0    713.4  460.0    52.9    43.5         96.4   62.0        64
E. Land Acquisition                                  63.0        -      63.0       -     8.5        -       8.5      -        -
Total Project Cost                          454.4   322.0    776.4  460.0    61.4    43.5    104.9   62.0            59



- 27 -
3.25      Except for the roads in Occidental Mindoro and the new MPH
Central Laboratory facilities, which are entirely the National Government's
responsibility, the costs of the rural road and provincial workshop improve-
ments would be shared between the national and provincial governments, with
the National Government contributing varying amounts in acco- ance with the
different fiscal capabilities of each participating province. During nego-
tiations, final cost estimates for the project and the cost-sharing formulae
between the national and the six provincial governments were agreed with
the Government.
3.26      The average construction cost per km (excluding contingency allow-
ances and right-of-way) is estimated at about US$108,000 equivalent for
national roads, and about US$30,000 equivalent for rural roads. Construction
supervision for national roads by consultants and consulting services by local
consultants for rural roads and workshops (including design, detailed engi-
neering, preparation of contract documents and construction supervision) is
estimated at about 6.5% of construction cost. Overall, the project
includes 556 man-months of expatriate and 48 man-months of local technical
assistance (Tables 3.12 and 3.13). The man-month rate for expatriate
technical assistance advisors, exclusive of contingencies, is estimated at
about US$8,700 or US$7,500, if international travel expenses and local costs
for housing and local travel are also excluded. The estimated cost for
local consultants' services is about US$2,700 equivalent. These costs are
considered reasonable and are based on previous experience.
3.27      Cost estimates were independently prepared by the consultants who
carried out the preliminary engineering and reviewed by MPH and MLGCD for
the national and rural roads, respectively. The estimates for rural roads
were checked and assembled by the consultants using quantities derived from
detailed reconnaissance. Details of the methodology employed are given in
the Project File. Unit prices were based on an analysis of the cost of
labor, materials, depreciation, operation of equipment, and contractors'
overhead and profit, taking into account recent bids received for similar
projects as well as the latest prices for basic materials and labor. A 10%
physical contingency allowance for estimates prepared on the basis of
detailed reconnaissance is considered adequate, particularly since refine-
ments during final detailed engineering are expected to decrease estimated
costs. Cost estimates for construction supervision, detailed engineering,
technical assistance and training have been based on experience during the
Second and Third Highway Projects; cost estimates for equipment also took
into account suppliers' recent quotations.
3.28      Direct foreign exchange costs are the c.i.f. costs of imported
materials, equipment and machinery, construction equipment depreciation,
foreign contractors' overhead and profit, and anticipated foreign consulting
services. Depreciation costs have been calculated from consultant, MPH and
MLGCD estimates of the depreciation on typical inventories of imported con-
struction equipment which foreign and domestic contractors would require for
civil works.  Indirect foreign exchange costs consist of locally processed
materials, such as bitumen, reinforcing steel and cement, for which raw
materials or equipment would have to be imported. Estimates of the required
quantities and import content of these materials were also prepared by



- 28 -
consultants and reviewed by MLGCD, MPH and the mission. During negotiations,
final cost estimates for the project were agreed with the Government.
D. Project Implementation
3.29      M1GCD and the provinces, assisted by qualified consultants, will
be the executing agency for all project components associated with rural
roads. MPH, assisted by consultants, will be the executing agency for the
construction and improvement of the roads in Occidental Mindoro, the
provision of a new MPH Central Soils and Materials Laboratory and the
consulting services for detailed engineering and construction supervision of
these two project components. The technical assistance for transport
advisory services will be the responsibility of MOTC and NEDA.
3.30      In order to ensure uniformity and because the provincial authori-
ties have little experience in contract administration, all procurement,
except that being executed by MPH and MOTC, will be ,carried out by MLGCD
with the participation of the concerned provincial authorities and with the
help of the technical assistance advisors provided under the Project. This
includes: (a) machinery and equipment; (b) civil works by contract; (c)
consulting services and technical assistance; and (d) arrangements for
overseas training and study tours.
3.31      The project will be implemented over a four-year period.  The
road construction and workshop improvement components will require about
three years to execute. An action program (Annex 1) for MLGCD and the
provinces, with particular emphasis on institutional matters, was
agreed with the Government during negotiations. The schedule showing the
various phases of implementation for each project component is attached as
Chart 21374. During negotiations, the implementation schedule was agreed
with the Government and assurances were obtained that the Government will:
(a) adhere to the agreed action program; (b) submit regular semiannual
progress reports to the Bank; (c) monitor overall implementation of the
Project; and (d) prepare a completion report within six months of the
Closing Date.
E. Procurement
3.32      Contracts for construction and improvement of the national roads,
amounting to about US$17 million equivalent, will be awarded to prequalified
contractors on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement." Contracts for the
construction and improvement of rural roads, totalling about US$29 million
equivalent, will be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of
local competitive bidding, under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Civil
works contracts for the construction and extension of workshops and labora-
tories, including installation of equipment, totalling about US$3.3 million
equivalent, would be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of
local competitive bidding under procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For



- 29 -
rural roads and workshops, international competitive bidding would not be
appropriate as the relatively small contracts involved would be scattered in
six separate provinces and phased over a period of four years. However,
foreign firms operating in the Philippines would be eligible to participate.
All construction contracts would contain appropriate price escalation clauses
to account for expected inflation.
3.33      Workshop equipment and machinery, soils and materials testing
equipment, road maintenance equipment, technical tools and apparatus, and
training equipment and supplies with a total cost of about US$9.0 million
equivalent would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." A
preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf items, each costing
less than US$10,000 equivalent and procurement of hand tools for road
maintenance may follow normal Government procurement procedures and
conditions which are acceptable to the Bank: the total amount of such
purchases should not exceed US$300,000 equivalent.
3.34      Rural road improvement works have been tentatively divided into
29 contract packages. Cost estimates for individual contract packages
range from US$200,000 to US$2.5 million equivalent. Mindoro road construc-
tion and improvement works have been tentatively divided into four contracts.
Cost estimates for individual contracts range from US$3.0 million to US$6.0
million equivalent. These amounts ensure economies of scale as well as
providing opportunit:.es to local contractors, which is one of the objectives
of the project. All contractors would be prequalified and would be eligible
to bid on one or several packages.
3.35      Local contractors, some of whom have formed joint ventures with
foreign firms, have been very active in bidding for large and small contracts
on previous Bank-financed road construction projects in the Philippines. It
is expected that the local contracting industry would bid for all the
contract packages included in this project but that foreign contractors
would be primarily interested in the larger packages. The bidding schedule
would be arranged to allow unsuccessful bidders to bid on subsequent
packages. A large number of local, local/foreign joint ventures, and
foreign contractors are expected to apply for prequalification, and the
Government has agreed that MLGCD and MPH will institute a detailed system for
careful evaluation of prequalification applications, similar to the
procedures adopted by MPH under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1661-PH).
F. Right-of-Way
3.36      The national and provincial governments acquire right-of-way by
negotiation as far as possible, although they have adequate compulsory
powers, if needed. There have been cases in previous projects where delay



- 30 -
in acquiring rights-of-way has caused disruption of scheduling. Confirmation
was obtained during negotiations that the appropriate government authority
will take action to make available the right-of-way on each road section and
the land required for each workshop or laboratory before awarding the contract
for its construction.
G. Disbursements
3.37      The loan would be disbursed against normal documentation over a
five-year period on the basis of: (a) 55% of total construction and
improvement costs for rural roads; (b) 50% of total construction costs for
roads in Mindoro; (c) 50% of total construction costs for provincial
workshops and laboratories; (d) 60% of total construction costs for the MPH
soils and materials laboratory; (e) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
equipment, spare parts, tools, machinery and components, if procured
directly abroad, or 65% if procured locally; (f) 100% of the ex-factory cost
of equipment, spare parts, tools, and components produced locally; and (g)
100% of the cost of consulting services (whether expatriate or local) and
the cost of overseas training. Withdrawals for expenditures on the rural
road improvement works to be carried out by contract over the three and
one-half years commencing in January 1981 will be made only after the
size and scheduling of the program has been reviewed and agreed to by the
Bank for the following year. During loan negotiations, agreement on a
schedule of estimated disbursements was reached with the Government (Table
3.14).
H. Environmental Aspects
3.38      No environmental or ecological problems are anticipated as a result
of this project. This conclusion is reinforced by the fact that there would
be basically no changes in the alignment of project roads to be improved
under the Bank loan. On the contrary, improvement of the various road
sections and the institution of proper routine maintenance would improve the
environment by keeping down noise and dust. Wider and better constructed
shoulders would also contribute to road safety.
3.39      Design of the drainage for the roads, including the structures,
would be carried out in collaboration with the National Irrigation Authority
(NIA) so that the works will not cause or aggravate flooding or erosion.
Road construction, improvement, and maintenance would provide better
surfacing, making travel much easier and more comfortable. Moreover, as the
project roads would largely follow existing alignments, this would minimize
disturbances to property and persons.



- 31 -
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The major quantifiable benefits of the project will result from
the provision of more economical transportation in areas where an existing or
potential transport demand has been identified. The project roads, including
the national/provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro, will serve areas that
are predominantly agricultural, thus providing the local population with
opportunities to:
(a)  improve their bargaining position vis-a-vis truckers (who tend
to follow good roads) and thereby obtain higher prices for their
products;
(b) improve the quality and quantity of their yields through prompt,
low-cost delivery of agricultural inputs;
(c) benefit from the activities of agricultural extension workers,
who will be provided with easier access to remote barrios; and
(d) intensify land use.
4.02      A detailed analysis has been carried out for roads in the provinces
of Iloilo, Cebu, Aklan, Quezon and Occidental Mindoro. The socioeconomic
characteristics of each road's influence area have been carefully documented
to analyze and forecast agricultural production and land use, population,
the volume and type of traffic, marketing system, credit availability,
transport prices, farmgate and market prices of agricultural commodities,
and production costs. The feasibility studies of project roads are in the
Project File. Development constraints and potentials of each project road
influence area (RIA) were identified to enable relevant agricultural
agencies to formulate appropriate action programs for agricultural develop-
ment in the RIAs. During negotiations the need for such action programs was
discussed with the Government. In view of the heavy emphasis placed
on agricultural development in the current investment plan (1980-83), no
difficulties are foreseen in the Government's adoption of such programs
which would incorporate various existing programs of agricultural extension
and credit services, coconut replanting, seed multiplication and the like.
The population served by project roads generally have per capita incomes
below the absolute poverty threshold for the Philippines.



- 32 -
4.03      The first group of quantified project benefits are based on the
projected increase in the net value of animal and/or crop production,
including better ex-farm prices of inputs and crops. Increased production is
expected to result from the introduction of hybrid varieties, the adoption of
diversified production and multicropping, and the cultivation of idle land as
the project provides remote barrios with low cost transport and easy access
to agricultural extension workers.
4.04      In assessing the project's benefits, it was assumed that the
adoption of new farming techniques would result in increased production in
about three years for food crops and bananas, and from five to ten
years for new hybrid coconuts. Once roads are improved, the cultivated area
for cash crops is expected to expand more rapidly than that for food crops,
as farmers would be encouraged to grow perishable, but highly profitable,
fruits such as bananas, mangoes and grapes. Other income-generating
activities expected to expand include producing cassava for animal feed and
tapioca, peanuts, abaca fiber, and vegetables; raising cattle; and breeding
fish.
4.05      The project roads in the Province of Iloilo would support the Bank-
financed Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo) Project (Loan 18-15-PH) whose main
objective is to accelerate palay production through the provision of seed
banks, agricultural extension services and farmer training centers. The
project's secondary objectives are to develop and increase such cash crops
as vegetables, sorghum, and peanuts as well as livestock production.
4.06      A number of case studies undertaken in the Philippines have
shown that there is a close correlation between improved roads and higher
farmgate prices for agricultural commodities as well as increased transfer of
modern farming techniques through agricultural extension services. A case
study of 46 barrios in the Philippines representing different topography,
soil fertility, culture, traditions and socioeconomic characteristics of the
local population showed that the producer response to improved road
conditions was overwhelmingly positive for all major crops. Following road
improvement, the increase in the volume of marketed products ranged from 12%
to 104%, (Table 4.1), while the decrease in transport prices charged by
truckers and other transporters ranged from 40% to 60% (Table 4.2). Two
additional studies /1 carried out in Mindanao and Luzon have similarly
observed a positive correlation between improved roads and higher farmgate
/lower transport prices. In the Philippines, there is a high degree of
competition among transport operators, and reduced transport costs resulting
from improved roads are generally passed on to the farmers. From this past
experience, it can be judged that the improved roads under the project would
benefit the farmers, local population, and transport operators providing
services in the influence areas.  However, in quantifying the project's
agricultural benefits more conservative assumptions have been adopted than
/1  One ADB-financed study on the Impact of Feeder Roads on Mindanao (1978)
and the other study on the Impact of Rural Roads in Southeast Asian
Countries by SEATAC (1979).



- 33 -
those found in these case studies. The assumptions and methodology adapted
for the economic evaluation of project roads are contained in Annex 3.
4.07      The second group of quantifiable benefits is based on the reduction
in the transport costs of:  (i) nonagricultural commodities, such as consu,q:
goods and minerals and (ii) passengers. Road user savings for these two
types of traffic not directly related to agricultural production have been
quantified to supplement the primary benefit component of the net value added
on incremental output resulting from the road construction or from a combine'
road/agricultural investment (e.g. Iloilo). The share of these reduced
transport costs as percent of total benefits vary widely from about 10% to
70%.
B. Traffic Analysis
4.08      Traffic counts and origin-destination surveys have been carried out
during November-December 1979, on all roads proposed by the Government and
the results analyzed to obtain traffic estimates. The range in the level of
existing traffic on the project roads varied greatly from an average annual
daily traffic of 10 to 933 (Table 4.3). Traffic on these roads is expected
to grow at about 5-6% p.a.. Table 4.4 gives the estimated vehicle operating
costs on the project roads by vehicle and by road type. All the assumptions
regarding traffic estimates and costs are contained in the Project File.
C. Construction and Maintenance Costs
4.09      In the economic evaluation, net-of-tax costs have been used for
construction. The foreign exchange cost has been shadow priced by applying
the conversion factor of 0.9. It was assumed that, in accordance with the
project implementation schedule (Chart 21374), 10% of the costs would be
incurred in 1981, 35% in 1982, 45% in 1983 and 10% in 1984, which is the
opening year. The maintenance costs of the project roads have been
estimated by consultants as shown in Table 4.5.
D. Overall Economic Evaluation
4.10      Economic analysis has been carried out for about 90 individual
roads with a total length of about 1,000 km. Out of these roads some 530 ima
of roads with an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 17% were selected
for inclusion in the project. The returns on the rural roads range from
17% to 55% with an overall ERR of 31%. The returns on the national/provin"
cial roads in Occidental Mindoro are 23% and 22%, with a weighted average of
23%. The overall ERR of all roads is 28% based on the relative weights
of .62 and .38 of the investment costs for the rural roads in the six
provinces and the national/provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro (Table
3.6). Further details on the evaluation are provided in the Project File.
These rates of return exclude investment in road maintenance equipment,



- 34 -
workshops and related equipment and machinery, and technical assistance.
The benefits of the maintenance components have not been quantified but
experience in this type of investment elsewhere suggests high returns giving
this type of investment the highest priority in road development programs.
4.11      Sensitivity tests carried out for the project roads showed that an
increase of 20% in investment costs reduces the overall ERR to 28%; a reduc-
tion of benefits by 20% lowers the ERR to 27%, while a simultaneous increase
in costs and reduction of benefits by 20% results in a drop in ERR to 25%
(Table 4.6).
Project Risks
4.12      The risks, in terms of potential economic benefits, are normally
in the estimates of traffic and agricultural growth rates and savings in
vehicle operating costs and they have been accounted for. Because of the
new approach being taken by the project in decentralizing responsibility
and authority, the main risks are associated with the performance of MLGCD
and the provinces in implementing the various project components. While
risks are not inconsiderable, the proposed approach provides the opportunity
to achieve the Government's decentralization policy.  The lack of trained
staff poses a problem but the substantial technical assistance, organiza-
tional changes, and agreed action programs, which are an essential part of
the project, should minimize this risk.



-35-
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During loan negotiations, it was agreed with the Government, and
included as covenants in the Loan Agreement, that the Government will:
(a) reach agreement with the Bank, prior to loan effectiveness, on
satisfactory memoranda of agreement between MPH, MLGCD, MOF,
MOB and the project provinces concerning division of responsi-
bility for construction and improvement of local roads, including
budgetary authority and fund allocation, in order to avoid
duplication of effort (paras. 2.28 and 2.29);
(b) conclude and sign the memoranda referred to in para. (a) above
by December 31, 1980 and carry out their provisions in accordance
with timetables and programs satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.29);
(c) complete arrangements by December 31, 1980 between MLGCD and the six
project provinces for sharing costs of project components associated
with rural roads (para. 3.25);
(d) implement an improved rural roads maintenance program in
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank and
furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year beginning in
1980 and continuing until the completion of the Project, an
annual program satisfactory to the Bank of physical targets
and budget requirements for implementation of the road main-
tenance program for the following year (para. 2.21 and 3.05);
(e) make necessary improvements, in consultation with the Bank, to the
organization and management practices of MLGCD and the provinces,
including the recruitment and appointment of suitably qualified
staff to fill key positions (para. 3.09);
(f) make specific funding provisions for the implementation of all
project components (para. 3.04 and 3.24);
(g) arrange for timely acquisition of land for right-of-way for
each road section and workshop site prior to awarding construc-
tion contracts (para. 3.36);
(h) employ qualified and experienced consultants, acceptable to
the Bank, to design and supervise road construction and
improvement, and improvement of workshops and quality control
laboratories (paras. 3.16, 3.17, 3.21, and 3.22);
(i) utilize evaluation methods, standards and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank in determining the list of contractors
to be prequalified to bid on project components (para. 3.35);



- 36 -
(j) employ qualified and experienced expatriate and local consultants,
acceptable to the Bank, to provide technical assistance to MLGCD,
PDSs and PEOs (paras. 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14 and 3.15);
(k) provide the Bank with a comprehensive semi-annual progress
report on implementation of the Project (para. 3.31); and
(1) institute a training evaluation system within MLGCD's training
unit, in consultation with the Bank, and continuously appraise
and monitor the effectiveness of the manpower development and
training programs (para. 3.15).
5.02      In addition, agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a) a schedule (Annex 1) for the implementation of organizational
improvements (in NLGCD and the provincial PEOs) and for
implementation of the road maintenance component of the project
including training and operational improvements (paras. 3.09,
3.13 and 3.15);
(b) rural road maintenance and provincial workshop equipment,
tools and machinery including parts and components for exist-
ing equipment, soils and materials testing apparatus and
equipment for provincial quality control laboratories (para.
3.06 and 3.07), to be procured under the project;
(c) the cost estimates for the project (paras. 3.25 and 3.28) and
the schedule of estimated disbursements (para. 3.37);
(d) a project implementation schedule, and arrangements for reporting
progress, including preparation of a completion report within six
months of the Closing Date (para. 3.31);
(e) the cost-sharing formulae between the national and the six provin-
cial governments for project components associated with rural roads
(para. 3.25); and
(f) an action program (Annex 1) for implementation, by MLGCD and the six
project provinces, of project components associated with rural
roads (para. 3.31).
5.03      Subject to agreement on the foregoing matters, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$62 million equivalent (representing about 59%
of the total cost) for a period of 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. The Borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MLGCD and Provincial Governments
Action Program for Project Implementation
A. MLGCD
1. Institutional Improvements
In order to implement the major recommendations of the Organiza-
tion and Management Study (paras. 3.08 and 3.09) and increase its
capability, MLGCD should:
Target Date
(a) Reach agreement on arrangements with the six
project provinces for sharing project costs and
allocation of funds (including maintenance funds),
clearly indicating the funds to be provided by the
national government and the details of a province-
specific formula for recovery by the national
government of a portion of the total costs from the
provinces in such a manner that their fiscal capa-
bility to fulfill their responsibilities, fully
implement the project and continue the general
development of the province will not be impaired.
The agreement should also clearly delineate the
division of responsibilities and the lines of
authority between MLGCD and the provincial govern-
ments for construction, improvement and maintenance
of all rural roads (provincial, municipal and
barangay).                                               April 1980
(b) Modify its organizational structure to concen-
trate authority and responsibility for all rural
roads programs under one Ministry unit (Chart 21430). July 1980
(c) Appoint suitably qualified persons to become:
(i) Director of MLGCD's Rural Roads Program Office;
and (ii) Project Manager for this Project both of
whom shall be satisfactory to the Bank.                  September 1980



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Target Date
(d) Arrange, through coordination with the Ministry
of Budget (MOB) and the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), to provide from national government
resources, sufficient funds (on a timely basis)
to expeditiously implement the Project. A
portion of these funds are to be later recovered
from the provinces in accordance with the agreed
arrangements (see para. (a) above).                       July 1980
(e) Select and appoint, subject to Bank concurrence,
suitably qualified technical assistance training
experts to advise and assist on training program
development and initial implementation, for the
provinces, through MLGCD.                                  September 1980
(f) Institute a target-oriented budget system, begin-
ning with the 1981 budget, to provide adequate
funds for MLGCD's in-house operations.                    October 1980
(g) Provide sufficient funds in 1981 and subsequent
years in MLGCD's budget to cover salaries and
allowances for the additional staff to be
appointed.                                                October 1980
(h) Acquire adequate space and proper facilities
for the Rural Roads Program staff, including
necessary equipment, apparatus and supplies,
providing sufficient funds in the 1981 and
subsequent budgets for initial and recurrent
expenditures.                                             October 1980
(i) Appoint or recruit sufficient, qualified staff
to fill key positions in MLGCD's revised organiz-
ation, including an adequate number of qualified
counterpart staff to the technical assistance
experts being appointed under this project to
provide assistance and advice. Recruit or
appoint a sufficient number of qualified support
staff to appropriate positions in its revised
organization.                                             December 1980
(j) Appoint or recruit qualified staff to the Rural
Roads Program Training Division and develop, with
the help of technical assistance training
consultants, the training programs aimed at



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Target Date
provincial personnel with emphasis on maintenance
of rural roads, operation, maintenance and repair
of equipment using source material developed by
USAID, MPH and other agencies to produce audio-
visual material and training courses for use by
PEO's.                                                December 1980
(k) Reach agreement with MPH concerning division of
responsibilities for construction, improvement
and maintenance of all rural roads. The agree-
ment should cover provincial, municipal and
barangay roads and should include arrangements
for allocation of funds provided by the National
Government for both construction and maintenance.   April 1981
(1) Select qualified personnel from the provincial
Government units and from MLGCD staff to be sent
overseas for advanced technical training and for
short study tours.                                    December 1981
(m)  Institute, with the help of technical assist-
ance experts to be appointed under this project
an on-the-job training program, using a Training
Production Unit attached to the Training Division
of the Rural Roads Program Office.                    December 1982
2.  Rural Roads Construction and Improvement
(n) Select and appoint, subject to Bank concurrence,
qualified and experienced local consulting firms
to undertake detailed engineering and construc-
tion supervision of the project roads and for the
improvements to provincial workshops and
laboratories.                                         April 1980
(First Year
Program)
(o)  Seiert and appoint, subject to Bank concurrence,
suil ably qualified technical assistance consult-
z. .s to assist in improving its organization,
management and technical capability and in
guiding, supervising and monitoring the work of
the provinces and of the local design consultants. December 1980
(p) Arrange, on a centralized basis, for the pre-
qualification of contractors to undertake the
construction of the project rural roads and workshop



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Target Date
improvements, using an improved prequalification
evaluation procedure satisfactory to the Bank.         September 1980
(q) After completion of the detailed engineering and
preparation of contract documents for the first
year construction program for the rural roads
included in this project, conduct local
competitive bidding for the rural roads improve-
ment works on a centralized basis, evaluate the
bids using systems and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank and, with Bank concurrence, award
contracts for construction.                            October-December
1980
(r) Begin construction of the first year program for
the Rural Roads Improvement Project (75 km).           January 1981
B. Provincial Governments
1. Institutional Improvements
(a) Reorganize the PDS and PEO to clarify division
of authority and responsibility.                       December 1980
(b) Provide sufficient funds in 1981 provincial
budgets to cover staff salaries and allowances
for additional staff.                                  October 1980
(c) Recruit qualified personnel to fill key posi-
tions and provide adequate support staff.              November 1980
(d) Appoint suitable counterpart staff to
provincial technical assistance advisors.              November 1980
(e)  Acquire necessary additional office space and
facilities for PDS and PEO, providing sufficient
funds in 1981 and subsequent provincial budgets
for initial and recurrent costs, including
utilities and supplies.                                December 1980
(f) Conduct a comprehensive rural road condition
inventory on a yearly basis to be used for
maintenance planning as well as road improvement
programs.                                              June 1981



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Target Date
(g)  Conduct training at the provincial level, with
assistance from technical assistance advisors
and using resources and training materials
provided by MLGCD.                                       June 1981
(h)  Nominate staff for MLGCD training courses,
including on-the-job training, advanced
overseas technical training and overseas
study tours.                                             October 1981
(i)  Appoint sufficient qualified staff to properly
operate provincial workshops and laboratories
and improve methods, procedures and operations
with the help of technical assistance consultants
to be appointed under this project.                      December 1982
2.  Rural Roads Construction and Improvement
(j)  Acquire necessary land for provincial workshops
and laboratories and required right-of-way for
project roads.                                           December-June
1981
(k)  Institute adequate quality control procedures
using improved laboratory facilities and
qualified personnel with the help of MLGCD and
the technical assistance consultants to be
appointed under this project.                            December 1981
(1)  Improve workshop facilities by acquiring, through
MLGCD, necessary equipment, tools and machinery
as well as improving physical facilities.                January 1982
(m)  Improve the conduct of rural roads maintenance
operations using modified and improved methods
and procedures determined with the aid of MLGCD
and the technical assistance consultants, by
recruiting and appointing adequate maintenance
personnel and by implementing a satisfactory
training program.                                        December 1982
(n)  Supervise, with the help of local consultants
to be appointed under this project, the rural
roads improvement work performed by contractors
and the improvements to the provincial workshops
and laboratories, assisted by MLGCD and the
technical assistance consultants appointed under
this project.                                            1981-1984



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Target Date
C. Preparation of Future Rural Roads Improvement Project
Feasibility Study for 20 Additional Provinces
The project includes funds for conducting a feasibility
study in preparation of a future rural improvement
project which will cover about 20 additional provinces.
It will be necessary for MLGCD and the provinces to
provide adequate and qualified counterpart staff to
assist the consultants in carrying out the study.
This counterpart staff should be available beginning
in May 1980 and their appointments should be completed
by September 1980.                                              May-
September 1980
D. Consulting Services
1. Adequate and qualified counterpart staff should be
provided by the Government to assist the consultants
who will be appointed to provide the technical
assistance to MLGCD and the provinces. This staff
should be available by September 1980.                   September 1980
2. Detailed terms of reference for the various consult-
ing services and technical assistance included in
the project will need to be completed in final form
(draft terms of reference are in the Project File)
by MLGCD and MPH and submitted to the Bank for review
and concurrence. These will include:
(a) Terms of reference for consulting services
(except for the first year's program) to
perform detailed engineering and construction
supervison for the rural roads improvements
included in the project;                            June 1980
(b) Terms of reference for construction supervision
for the national roads included in the project; June 1980
(c) Terms of reference for detailed engineering
and construction supervision for the provincial
workshop improvements (except for the first
year's program) and for the new soils and
materials laboratory for MPH;                       September 1980
(d) Terms of reference for the consultancy services
for training included in the project; and
(e) Terms of reference for the various technical
assistance services for MLGCD and the provincial
governments, based on the agreed outline terms
of reference (Annex 2).                             September 1980



- 43 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO MLGCD AND PROVINCES -
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.        The project includes 360 man-months of technical assistance/i to
help MLGCD and the provincial governments to improve and upgrade their
operations associated with rural roads. Objectives and outline terms of
reference for the technical assistance are given below.
A. MLGCD
2.        Technical assistance (144 man-months) will be provided to MLGCD at
the center to assist in setting the framework for a comprehensive
nation-wide rural roads program which will be coordinated, monitored and
supervised by MLGCD but which will be implemented by local government units.
MLGCD will provide guidelines, set standards, allocate funds, coordinate
efforts of various agencies, and monitor implementation. The proposed
project will serve as a vehicle to accomplish these overall objectives, will
represent the first phase of a rural roads program that is national in
scope, and will provide experience in the six key provinces that will later
be used to extend efforts to the other pro-vinces in the Philippines,
modifying initial procedures and systems wherever necessary.
3.        Outline Terms of Reference - Six technical assistance experts will
be provided to MLGCD for a two-year period under the project (Table 3.13):
(a) Economic and Financial Analysis: Assist MLGCD in setting up an
Economic and Financial Management Studies Unit within the Planning
and Programming Division of its Rural Roads Program Office
(Chart 3) and provide advice and assistance in planning,
programming, systems and procedures for economic and financial
studies, allocation and control methods for funds, budgeting and
auditing.
(b) Maintenance
(i) Road Maintenance. Assist MLGCD in setting up a central rural
road maintenance staff unit for maintenance planning, program-
ming, management and monitoring within its Rural Roads Program
Office (Chart 3) to provide guidance and assistance to local
government authorities in maintenance planning and programming
ming, quality control, road inventories and installation of
improved systems and procedures for rural road maintenance.
Provide advice and assistance in allocation and control of
/1 Excluding that associated with training (Table 3.12)



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
maintenance funds, monitoring and evaluation of maintenance
operations and in issuing guidelines and standards; and
(ii) Maintenance Facilities and Equipment. Assist MLGCD in
setting up its rural road maintenance staff unit (see
para. 3(b)(i) above) to provide guidance and asssistance to
local government authorities in installing and implementing
systems and procedures for equipment maintenance and repair.
Provide advice and assistance in installing a centralized
procurement system for equipment, workshop machinery, tools
and other items, focusing on the procurement to be carried
out under this project but assisting in creating a central
M1GCD procurement unit on a permanent basis.  Provide advice
and assistance in supervising, monitoring and evaluating
local government operations associated with equipment for
rural road maintenance, including inventory control.
(c) Rural Road Design and Construction
(i) Design Engineering. Assist MLGCD in setting up its
rural roads design and construction unit within its Rural
Roads Program Office (Chart 3) to provide guidance and
assistance to local government authorities in planning,
design, detailed engineering and contract documentation and
administration. Provide advice and assistance to MLGCD in
issuing guidelines and standards to ensure a common approach
to rural road design and contract documentation. Assist in
preparation of a design manual, model contract plans and
standard drawings for roads, bridges and drainage structures.
Provide advice and assistance in formulating nation-wide
criteria for rural road design with particular emphasis on
bridges and drainage structures. Assist MLGCD in formulating
and installing systems for a nationwide rural road bridge and
drainage structure rehabilitation program including inspec-
tion procedures, evaluation methodology and guidelines,
standards and procedures for rehabilitation, strengthening,
improvement or reconstruction of minor bridges and drainage
structures. Provide advice and assistance in supervising,
reviewing, monitoring and evaluating the work of the Provin-
cial Engineer's Offices and the local consulting engineering
firms engaged in the detailed engineering of rural roads,
focusing in particular on the project roads but helping to
install permanent systems for use on other roads.
(ii) Materials and Specifications. Assist MLGCD in setting
up its rural roads design and construction unit (see
para. 3(c)(i) above) to provide guidance and assistance to
local government authorities in developing standard
procedures for soils, surveys, foundation investigations and



- 4.5 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
material exploration, including laboratory testing; for
design of road surfaces; and for inspection and testing of
materials and workmanship during construction, including
criteria for frequency of sampling and testing. Provide
advice and assistance in the development of standard
specifications for construction of rural roads and bridges.
Emphasis will be placed on simplification of specifications
to the extent possible using innovative approaches in order
to establish realistic and practical specifications
appropriate for rural roads, focusing on the maximum use of
locally available materials and labor-based construction
methods; and
(iii) Construction Engineering. Assist MLGCD in setting up its
rural roads design and construction unit [see para. 3(c)(i)]
above to provide guidance and assistance to local government
authorities in developing standard policies and procedures
for: (a) prequalification of contractors; (b) contract
documentation, advertising for bids and bid evaluation; (c)
bases for measurement and payment for contract work items;
(d) reporting systems and requirements during construction;
(e) treatment of contractor claims; and (f) construction
suparvision policies, procedures and requirements. Provide
advice and assistance to MLGCD in the preparation and
distribution of a construction supervision manual,
participating in seminars and other MLGCD training programs.
Provide advice and assistance in supervising, monitoring,
and evaluating the work of the Provincial Engineer's Offices
and the local consulting engineering firms engaged in
supervising construction of rural roads, focusing in
particular on the project roads but helping to install
permanent systems for use on other roads.
B. Provincial Governments
4.        Technical assistance (216 man-months) will be provided under this
project to the provincial governments in order to assist them in improving
their organization and upgrading their capabilities in rural road planning,
design, construction and maintenance. Most provincial governments in the
Philippines lack the capability to satisfactorily plan or design roads and
bridges. The six key provinces targeted under this project include two with
some capability in planning and engineering (Iloilo and Cebu), two with none
(Camarines Norte and Ilocos Sur), and two with the basic organization but
little capability (Aklan and Quezon). In order to ensure better concen-
tration of scarce resources and to promote improved maintenance of provin-
cial roads, the project roads will be constructed through contract, with
local consultants engaged to supervise construction.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Outline Terms of Reference
5.        The six provinces included in the project will be divided into
three sets, with a team of three technical assistance experts assigned to
each set of two provinces. In this way, the experts can divide their time
between provinces, paying more attention to those less capable. Nine
experts will be provided under the project for a two-year period each
(Table 3.13):
(a) Economic and Financial Analysis (3 experts): Assist the
Provincial Development Staff (PDS) of each province in improving
their systems, procedures and operations in road network planning,
feasibility studies, programming, financial management and
budgeting;
(b) Rural Road Design and Construction (3 experts):  Assist the
provincial Engineer's Office (PEO) in each province in improving
their capabilities in rural road planning, design, detailed
engineering, construction contract documentation and administra-
tion, monitoring of (local) consulting services, and construction
supervision. Provide advice and assistance, in cooperation with
MLGCD's Rural Roads Program office, to help gradually increase
the PEO's participation in the implementation of the rural roads
program as the provincial staff gains in experience and
capability. The object is to assist in improving the PEO's
capabilities to the point where it can independently conduct
its rural road operations, with only general guidance from
MLGCD.
(c) Maintenance of Rural Roads (3 experts). Assist the PEO in each
province to improve its road maintenance activities, including
workshop operations and maintenance and repair of equipment.
Provide assistance and advice, in cooperation with MLGCD's
Rural Roads Program office, in road maintenance planning, road
inventories and methods and procedures for road maintenance
operations, including participation in MLGCD's maintenance train-
ing program. Similarly, provide assistance and advice in workshop
planning and operation, equipment utilization and spare parts
control.
6.        The nine technical assistance experts will be responsible to the
Provincial Governor of the province during their stay and to MLGCD on an
overall basis. At the request of MLGCD, they may provide technical assis-
tance to other provinces not presently included in this project or in other
matters within their competence. Further details concerning the terms of
reference for the technical assistance are in the Project Files.



- 47 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation: Assumptions and Methodology
In undertaking the feasibility studies in preparation for the
project, the following assumptions and methodology were adopted.
(i) Population
1.        The population estimates within each influence area were made both
through interviews with local people and the origin-destination surveys
taken in November/December 1979. From these sources, the barrios and
municipalities which fell within a particular road influence area were
located, and the corresponding population estimated from the National Census
and Statistics Office data (NCSO). Using the last census year of 1975 as the
base year, the future growth rates were estimated on the basis of the 1970-75
population trends, adjusted by the following factors: (i) estimated income
growth; (ii) development potential of the area; (iii) national policy of
population growth control; (iv) stimulating effect of the new road; and (v)
opinions of local authorities.
(ii) Influence Area
2.        The internal influence area of each project road has been deline-
ated, in the field, on topographic maps on a scale of 1:50,000. Later
refinements were made on the basis of interview data from the field. In
order to get a good estimate of the boundary lines, local officials and
farmers were interviewed concerning the use of each road. Once the influ-
ence area was established, the land use was plotted on the map indicating
areas devoted to different crops and identifying idle potential agricultural
land. The influence area narrows down to a triangle when approaching
the major road to which a particular feeder road is connected because the
population at the start of the feeder road would be included in the influ-
ence area of the major road.
(iii) Agricultural Production
3.        Data on present agricultural production and marketing were obtained
from provinical agriculturists, BAEX and BAECON officials, municipal mayors,
municipal and provincial development staff and coordinators, truck-traders,
dealers and farmers.



- 48 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The land uses in each area were estimated on topographic maps and
each crop area was measured in hectares. The yield per ha was further
refined on the basis of field observations and interviews with local
authorities and farmers.
5.        Without the project, it was assumed that the increases in agricul-
tural production, especially palay, would follow past trends, 60% coming
from increased yields and 40% from expanded cultivation. With the project
and the complementary agricultural investment, the relative contribution of
the yield and area factors would vary with each road, and separate estimates
have been made for each road (see Examples 1-4, Paragraph B).
6.        In projecting agricultural production, the following factors were
taken into account:
(a) Data on previous crop yields, when statistically reliable, provided
the benchmark;
(b) For the planned development projects having an impact on agricul-
tural production in the influence area, only the projects consid-
ered to have a high probability of being implemented were consid-
ered;
(c) The projected growth rates for major commodities in the RIAs are
2% - 4% lower than the estimates of NEDA and BAECON, depending on
the development prospects of each RIA as determined by the agri-
culturalists of the feasibility study team. While NEDA and BAECON
assumed 100% farmer responses to improved roads, the feasibility
study conservatively assumed 50% farmer participation in increased
agricultural activities as a result of improved roads.
(d) The estimates of future coconut production take into account the
Philippine Coconut Authority's (PCA) planned expansion for the
growth of a high yield variety (HYV Dwarf Mlalayan type). The
target is to replant 60,000 ha per year over a 40 year period
to replace the existing 2.4 million ha of coconut trees. In ten
years time, the yield of the hybrid variety could reach 4 tons per
ha, with about 150 trees, compared to the present average of less
than one ton per ha. This yield increase would represent an
annual average growth rate of over 4%; and
(e) Ample experience in the Philippines has shown that agricultural
extension workers followed good roads to spread know-how on modern
methods of cultivation more effectively. Agricultural extension
work was assumed to take effect gradually from 2 to 3 years after
the construction of the road.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 3
(iv) Farm-gate Prices
7.        The farm-gate prices have been obtained through field interviews
with local agricultural authorities and farmers. The farm-gate prices would
be higher in the project case partly due to lower transport costs and partly
due to higher quality of products such as copra which, from the variety of
dwarf trees, has a thicker meat. Several studies on the impact of rural road
investments in the Philippines have indicated that due to a high degree of
competition among transport operators, reduced transport costs resulting from
improved roads are generally passed on to the farmers in the form of higher
farm-gate prices (ranging from 10% to 60%). However, the feasibility study
conservatively estimated such increases to be between 10%-20% depending on
the number of transport operators serving the RIAs and the extent of user
savings obtainable from the new road.



-50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
Rural Roads Improvement Project
Supporting Tables and Charts
TABLES
2.1    Public Highway Network, 1979
2.2    Public Highway Network, 1975-79
2.3    MIotor Vehicle Statistics, FY66-78
2.4    Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, FY66-79
2.5    Expenditures by Highway Works and Source of Funds, FY66-78
2.6    Revenues From Highway Users, FY66-78
3.1    National Roads - Surface Type and Condition (1977/78)
3.2    Expenditures on Highways by Road System, FY66-78
3.3    Expenditures on Highway Mtaintenance by Road System, FY72-82
3.4    National Highway Design Standards
3.5    Project Components and Cost Estimates
3.6    Road Construction and Improvement - Project Road Sections
3.7    Provincial Workshops and Equipment Pools; Quality Control
Laboratories; and Provincial Engineer's Offices - Present
Facilities and Required Improvements
3.8    Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment, Workshop Machinery, Tools
and Equipment
3.9    Procurement of Quality Control Laboratory Apparatus and Equipment
3.10   Procurement of Engineering Equipment, Technical Tools and Apparatus,
Office Equipment, Communications Equipment, and Utility Vehicles
for MLGCD and Provincial PDSs and PEOs
3.11   Procurement of Training Equipment and Supplies for MLGCD
3.12   Training for MLGCD and Local Governments
3.13   Technical Assistance
3.14   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
4.1    Average Percentage Increase in Sales Volume in 1968 from One Year
Before and One Year After Road Construction Improving the Access
to the Barrio
4.2    Average Decrease in Transportation Costs After Road Construction
in 1968
4.3    Estimated Traffic on Project Roads
4.4    Vehicle Operating Costs in Pesos per km on Level Gravel Roads
September 1979 Prices Excluding Taxes
4.5    Economic Maintenance Costs per km Gravel Roads
4.6    Internal Rates of Return Sensitivity Analysis



- 51 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
CHARTS
1.    MIinistry of Public Highways Organization Chart - Worl
Bank Chart 19727
2.     Ministry of Local Government and Community Development - Current
Organizational Structure - World Bank Chart 21189
3.     Ministry of Local Government and Community Development - Proposed
Organizational Structure - World Bank Chart 21430
4.     Implementation Schedule - World Bank Chart 21374



- 52 -                            Table 2.1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Public Highway Network 1979
(km)
Total            Paved
Category and type   length  Concrete  Bituminous  %    Gravel  %            Earth  %
National Roads                                                  -
Expressway             122       122          -   100         -   -          -   -
Other              22,790    4,369        5,078    41   12,536  55         807   4
Subtotal      22,912    4,491       5,078    42   12,536  55         807   3
Secondary Roads
Provincial         28,997        531      3,184    13   19,350  67    5,932  20
City                 3,374       351      1,742    62    1,060  31         221   7
Municipal           10,075    1,280       1,348    26    5,286  52    2,161  22
Subtotal      42,446    2,162       6,274    20   25,696  61    8,314  19
Barangay Roads/a
Municipal           80,673       745        570      2   37,930  47   41,428  51
City                 6,792        79        557      9    4,346  64    1,810  27
Subtotal      87,465       827      1,217      2   42,501  49   42,920  49
Total        152,823    7,480    12,569    13   80,733  53   52,041  34
Road Density in 1979
Road km/sq km                    0.5
Road km/1,000 inhabitants        3.2
/a  Some of these roads are little more than trails.
Source:  Ministry of Public Highways
January 1980



- 53 -                          Table 2.2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC HIGHWAY NETWORK 1975-1979
(km)
National  Provincial   City    Municipal    Barangay Roads
Year     Roads       Roads       Roads     Roads       City   Municipal    Total
1979/a   22,912      28,997      3,374    10,075      6,792       80,673   152,823
1978     22,305      28,224      3,004     9,526      5,157 -   51,362   119,578
1977     21,852      29,189      2,826     9,128      5,075       47,811   115,881
1976     21,255      28,872      2,775    11,018    23,432        28,410   115,762
1975     21,260      28,431      2,462     8,257      4,506       27,580    92,496
1969     18,095      23,775      5,408    16,315          -            -    63,593
/a  Based on 1978/7) Road Inventory.  The large increase in barangay roads
is due to the addition of previously unrecorded road links.  Many sections
were reclassified in 1977 from city to municipal barangay roads.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways
January 1980



- 54 -                             Table 2.3
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE STATISTICS, FY66-78/a
Year        Cars /b    Jeepneys /c    Buses       Trucks      EMV |d      Total
Registrations
1966       165,744       31,969       14,218      98,701      13,433    324,065
1967       209,199       35,339       12,028    105,483       21,608    383,657
1968       235,676       40,418       14,402    114,195       26,727    431,418
1969       261,968       48,874       14,215    123,994       28,072    477,123
1970       268,260       43,262       13,506    152,664       30,530    488,322
1971.      276,547       43,739       13,018    140,850       32,184    506,338
1972       301,992       44,940       15,870    152,413       42,593    557,808
1973       318,022       57,729       17,532    175,582       50,328    614,292
1974        371,334      59,268       19,199    204,791       54,569    709,581
1975       388,890       56,901       18,325    207,758       58,917    730,791
1976       391,800       59,183       18,721    223,143       59,274    752,121
1977       433,837       69,008       19,485    246,060       66,974    835,364
1978       486,400       81,172       21,233    274,710       78,585    944,100
Average Annual Change (%)
1966-70        12.6          7.8            -       11.5        22.8        10.8
1966-76         9.4          6.5          3.1        10.2       17.5         9.7
1970-72         6.1          2.0          8.4           -       18.1         6.9
1972-74        10.9         14.8         10.0       15.9        13.1        12.8
1974-76         2.7            -            -       19.6         4.3         3.0
1976-77        10.7         16.6          4.1       10.2        12.9        11.1
1977-78        12.1         17.6          9.0       11.6        17.3        13.0
Changing Composition (%)
1966             51            10            4          31         4         100
1976             51             8            2          31         8         100
1977             52             8            2          30          8        100
978              52             8            2          29         9         100
Motor Vehicles Assembled in the Philippines, 1971-78
Year                 Passenger cars          Commercial vehicles             Total
1971                     9,447                      11,219                  20,666
1972                    11,994                        9,522                 21,516
1973                    16,737                      15,534                  32,271
1974                    21,844                      22,303                  44,147
1975                    27,497                      23,768                  51,625
1976                    29,434                      26,154                  55,588
1977                    30,126                      29,326                  59,452
1978                    34,405                      35,017                  69,422
/a  Excludes trailers with no power units.
/b  Includes Jeeps (noncommercial).
/c  Jeepneys and Jeeps converted for passenger transport.
/d  EI4V - Equivalent (4 wheels) Motor Vehicle for Motorcycles (3 motorcycles
= 1 EMV)
Source: Bureau of Land Transportation
January 1980



- 55 -                          Table 2.4
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL CONSUMPTION, FY66-79
Year                       Gasoline               Diesel fuel
------- (Million liters) -------
1966                         1,450                        -
1967                         1,771                    1,402
1968                         1,877                    1,578
1969                         2,205                    1,629
1970                         2,280                    1,919
1971                         2,481                    1,721
1972                         2,710                    1,902
1973                         2,839                    2,320
1974                         2,570                    2,181
1975                         2,294                    1,994
1976                         2,335                    2,201
1977                         2,313                    2,330
1978                         2,284                    2,369
1979                         2,343                    3,632
Average Annual Change (%)
1966-73                       10.1                      9.8/a
1973-75                      -11.0                     -7.8
1975-76                         1.8                     9.4
1976-77                      - 1.0                      5.8
1977-78                      - 1.3                      1.7
1978-79                         2.6                    10.0
/a FY67-73.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways; Board of Energy
Utilization; Oil Industry Commission.
January 1980



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURES BY HIGHWAY WORKS AND SOURCE OF FUNDS, FY66-78 /a
(P million)
Item                             1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973           1974      1975    1976/g    1977       1978
Administration /b
Highway special funds          24.0    19.1    24.5    29.6    30.9    26.0    26.6    12.5    101.0    119.2                -         -         -
Other funds                     5-7      6.2      7.8    11.4    24.1    26.5    43.6    93.1         78.4    165.2    104.0    150.4    169.2
General funds                     -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -         -         -    130.5      88.5    115.6
Subtotal                  29.7    25.3    32.3    41.0    55.0    52.5    70.2   105.6    179.4    284.4    234.5    238.9    284.8
Maintenance /c
Highway special funds          83.7    72.4   126.0   125.5   103.5   121.3   155.6   130.8    209.1    430.2                -         -         -
Other funds                     0.5      0.6      1.0     0.2      0.5      0.3        -    85.3      50.7      50.0         -         -         -
General funds                     -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -      10.1      53.3    795.9    874.9  1,084.3          1
U,
Subtotal                  84.2    73.0   127.0   125.7   104.0   121.6   155.6   216.1    269.9    533.5    795.9    874.9  1,084.3
Construction /d
Highway special funds /e       32.7   103.7   104.3    88.7   148.2    89.8   116.2   114.9           66.3      94.5         -         -         -
General funds                  25.9      7.4    22.7    18.8   149.5   112.8   178.7   321.8    463.5  1,018.5  2,470.6  1,545.0  1,527.2
Bond funds                      7.7    60.8    64.6    70.2    45.8         3.0     1.1      1.2         -         -         -         -         -
Other funds                     0.7      1.4      1.5     2.9      3.3    10.1      7.9    35.2       16.4       7.5         -         -         -
Foreign sources /f                -        -    42.8      3.2    67.6    15.5    50.2    57.6         63.2    219.0    409.1        73.5     58.9
Subtotal                  67.0   173.3   235.9   183.8   414.4   231.2   354.1   530.7    609.4  1,339.5  2,879.7  1,618.5  1,586.1
Total                    180.9   271.6   395.2   350.5   573.4   405.3   579.9   852.4  1,058.7  2,157.4  3,910.1  2.732.3  2,955.2
/a  Expenditures of National Government only.
/b  Includes loan amortization for FY66-78.
Tc  Includes routine & special maintenance, and emergency repairs.
/d  Includes construction of buildings.
/e  Expenditures are for road improvement works only.
/f  Exchange rates used:  FY74:  US$1.00 = F 6.80: FY75:  US$1.00 = P 7.00; FY76:  US$ = P 7.64;
FY77:  US$1.00 - P 7.50; FY78:  US$1.00 = P 7.50.
/g  Expenditures from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976.
Source:  Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1980



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
REVENUES FROM HIGHWAY USERS, FY66-78
(Pesos million)
Item                               1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    '371    1972    1973    1974    1975             1976      1977    1978
Fuel oil taxes /a                123.5   145.1   152.8   181.3   189.0   198.5   207.6   185.8   466.7   804.9   1,171.6  1,512.1  1,904.6
Motor vehicle fees /b              63.5    68.5    81.6    84.9    96.7   101.8   109.9    98.9   145.4   155.7             259.0    241.6    253.8
Motor vehicle registration    56.2    55.2    72.2    74.4    85.2    88.5 }                                              180.7    172.1      182.0
Licenses and plates               3.7     4.3      4.4      4.5      4.8      5.8 }    No breakdown available              18.6      11.8      11.2        1
Miscellaneous                     3.6     9.0      5.0      6.0      6.7      7.5 }                                        19.5      17.9      21.5
Special revenues                                                                                                           40.2      39.8Le   39.1
Total                     187.0   213.6   234.4   266.2   285.7   300.3   317.5   284.7/c 612.1   960.6   1,430.6  1,753.7  2,158.4
Annual increase (%)                 9.6    14.2      9.7    13.6       7.2      5.1     5.7    10.3   115.0    56.9          48.9      22.6      23.1
Earmarked for Highway
Special Fund /d                169.2   193.5   213.1   241.0   258.5   271.1   287.3   258.4   585.6   931.8                  -         -      -
/a  Fuel oil taxes include taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel and lubricants.
/b Motor vehicle fees include registration fees, drivers' and conductors' licenses, fees on plates and miscel-
laneous, (e.g., fines, penalties, surcharges). Details of breakdown data not available for FY72-75.
/c  Books had been closed earlier and the remaining accruals were transferred to next fiscal year as reported
by Board of Internal Revenue.
/d  Abolished in 1975, revenues now are placed in the general fund.                                                                                          X
/e  Emergency Ad Valorem Tax, Legal Research Fund and Special Revenue Tax.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1980



-58 -                                 Table 3.1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IHPROVEMENT PROJECT
National Roads - Surface Type and Condition (1977/78)
S u r f a c e C o n d i t i o n
Bad &
Good            Fair         very bad /b          Total
(km)   (%)      (km)   (%)       (km)   (%)       (km)    (%)
Surface type
Unpaved (earth)         -      -      210    1.0       460    2.1        670       3.1
Gravel                826    3.7   5,472   24.5   6,968   31.2   13,266          59.4
DBST/BST              558    2.5       759    3.4      290    1.3    1,607         7.2
Asphalt concrete    625    2.8   1,094    4.9          692    3.1    2,411        10.8
Cement concrete   3,436   15.4        581    2.6       334    1.5    4,351        19.5
Total          5,445   24.4   8,116   36.4   8,744   39.2   22,305/a  100.0
/a  National roads which are included in the annual maintenance program.
/b  Estimates made on the basis of road inventory data collected for the Third
and Fourth Highway Projects showed that 25% of these roads were bad and 75%
very bad.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways
December 1979



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
EXPENDITURES ON HIGHWAYS BY ROAD SYSTEM, FY66-78/a
(P million)
System                           1966   1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973         1974      1975    1976       1977     1978
National highways               112.2  196.2   288.4   241.6   441.5   291.0   432.0   691.9    910.8  1,868.1  3,516.8  2,324.4  2,434.9
Provincial/City roads            34.5   43.7    62.4    61.8    76.8    67.5    91.3    51.1         53.4    145.0    208.8    179.7    208.1
Municipal/barangay
roads                         16.8   20.1    29.4    29.3    34.6    31.7    42.6    28.7          16.2      66.0    184.5    228.2    312.2
Loan amortization                17.4   11.6    15.0    17.8    20.5    15.1    14.0    80.7          78.3     78.3         -         -         -
Total                       180.9  271.6   395.2   350.5   573.4   405.3   579.9   852.4  1,058.7  2,157.4  3,910.1  2,732.3  2.955.2                1
/a Expenditures of National Government only.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1980
H
1I0I



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Expenditures on Highway Maintenance by Road System, FY72-82 /a
(P million)
Actual                                              Planned /b
1972    1973    1974      1975     1976/d   1977         1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
I. Routine Maintenance /c
National roads                    94.7    72.1   150.5   263.6   354.1    356.2/e   404-5/e  425.0    649.1              684.0     721.0
Provincial roads                  39.5    34.8    42.4   100.6   182.5         143.4      201.3    211.4    222.0    233.1    255.0
Municipal & City roads             21.4    23.9      16.2    66.0               25.5        35.7      37.5      39.4      41.4      44.3
Barangay roads                        -        -        -        - } 158.8    114.4        152.4     160.0     168.0     176.4     186.0
Subtotal                  155.6   130.8   209.1   430.2   695.4    639.5            793.9    863.9  1,078.5  1,134.9  1,206.3
II.  Periodic Maintenance /c
National roads /f                     -        -      7.0    37.3    74.7       40.0       130.6     180.0    276.0    395.2    554.4
Provincial roads                      -       -
Municipal & City roads                -        -  }  3.1    16.0    25.8        29.4        27.7      29.1      30.5      32.0      35.0
Barangay roads                        -        -
Subtotal                       -        -    10.1    53.3   100.5        69.4       158.3    209.1    306.5    427.2    589.4
Subtotal (I and II)       155.6   130.8   219.2   483.5   795.9    708.9           952.2  1,073.0  1,385.0  1,562.1  1,795.7
III. Emergency Repairs
Calamity fund                         -    85.3    50.7    50.0          -    166.0       132.1    131.8    170.5    180.0    195.0
Total /g                  155.6   216.1   269.9   533.5   795.9    874.9   1,084.3  1,204.8  1,555.5  1,742.1  1,990.7
0D
/a  Expenditures of National Government only.
/b  1979-82 estimates assume that routine maintenance requirements will increase at a growth rate of 4% to 5% p.a.,
the same as the network.
/c  Financed from the Highway Special Fund until 1975 when the Fund was abolished.
/d  Includes expenditures from July 1, 1975 to December 31, 1976 due to a change in the Fiscal Year.
/e  Amount budgeted.  Actually only P 339.9 million was released in 1977 and P 389.9 million in 1978.
/f  From 1977 to 1982, represents the national road restoration program being undertaken (Table 3.2).
/g  Costs shown are actual for 1972 to 1978 and are estimated at 1979 prices for 1979 to 1982.  Actual expenditures for 1979
are not yet available.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways.
January 1980



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
National Highway Design Standards
Flat                                      Rolling (Hilly)                                 Mountainous
Terrain:                        Minor                             Express-    Minor                               Express-    Minor                              Express-
Class of road:/a                roads /b 2       3     4      5     way         roads /b          3    4      5     way         roads /b 2    3       4      5    way
Parameter
Design speed (km/h)               60      60    80    80   100        120        40-50    50   60   70    90          100        30      40    50    60        70    100
Pavement width (m)               6.0    6.1   6.7   7.0  2x7.3  2x7.3             6.0    6.1  6.7  7.0  2x7.3   2x7.3           5.5    5.5   6.0   6.7  2x7.O  2x7.0
Median width (m)                   -       -      -     -   4.0    12.0             -       -    -    -   4.0        12.0         -       -      -      -    2.0    4.0
Shoulder width (m)               1.5    1.5   2.0   2.5   3.0         3.0       1.0-1.5  1.5  2.0  2.0   3.0          3.0       1.0    1.0   1.5   1.5    3.0    3.0
Right-of-Way (m)                  30      30    60    60    60         60          30      30   60   60    60          60        30      40    40    50       60      60
Stopping sight distance (m)    70         70   110   110   180        260          60      60   70   90   150         230        50      50    60    70       90    190
Passing sight distance (m)    350    350   450   450   600/c   800/c    275-300  300  400  400   525/c   700/c                  275    275   300   350    450/c  600/c
Maximum superelevation (%)         8       8      8     8      8        8           8       8    8    8       8        8          8       8      8      8       8       8
Minimum horizontal radius (m) 125    125   240   240   400            750        50-90    90  200  200   350         550         25      50    80   125       180    400
Structural Design:  "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges" adopted by the American Association of State
Highway and Transport Officials (AASHTO).   Loading:  HS 20-44 & HS 15-44
Pavement Design: Based on an equivalent standard 8-ton single axle load.
/a  Class I (not shown) is intended to cover rehabilitation of an existing road of any class, such as improvement of pavement, reshaping of shoulders,
repairs to drainage, etc.
/b  Standards of minor roads may be relaxed where terrain and other physical conditions necessitate lower standards.  Minor roads are defined
as those that are contiguous, feeding or connecting to a national road, are constructed by MPH as part of a national road project, but
where use or traffic volumes dictate a lower standard.  Such roads are usually turned over to provinces, municipalities or barangays
for maintenance after construction.
/c Only to be applied if constructed as an undivided highway in the initial stage.
Source: Ministry of Public Highways
December 1979



-   62   -Tal                                                                         3.
PHILIPPINES
Project Comeone.t. an d Cost tatlustes
Loca   Forige    Total  Batk   Locl  Foroig,   Total    tack                    %       Coe.tro t-Ir
Length  cot        -eha,,ge   coa     ahara   coat    eaohat4e    tat       share       tatk      coat per '5
It ec.  leoccipt too                   11557        7k8 (   i111i_)                 lull- ------ t(nS   .Lb         Pn I-----ItS$'OOl)
A.lcCOlING looflIC  - MINITklRY OP LOCAL lOVOEttOf  AtND LOHitOT  DVlOOnlPttf  ItMAC
cot--cti-t and Iatcoe-
a. Pcooc-  of 01dl                           131     52.3      15.1      67.4    29.9      7.1       2.0      9.1       4.0         44           27.5
Pcooocca of Allan           77     77.4       6.~~~~~~~6 14.  1.1    2    .4        .9      3.        74 5                      2.5
dPI Ptcoeo    ic139    45.1    177.6                                       13.      351       .        24        .        4.7         53           11.1"
.Poonef1aaacit       ot                3        .         .       11.2      62       .t      0.        75        1.6         5            4.
PI - ecoc    f  locoa hoe                     27      1.5      2.5        9.0      5.1     0.9       0.3      3.2       0.7         55           45.0
sob octot I777                            722    159.9      57.1     216.9  112.2   21.7          L76     29.3      15.1         52           30.0
2. _ololltOrlhlot. ad Laboranorle
Con kthctpo   &lar at
to  the sit pcooi,,e                                3.7       2.0        5.7     2.8     0.5       0.3      0.6        a.1        50-
3.PcocttoMaotaoToaan
Procurenect ot rodsao
t.onoeIlPec   ItoodY
arot foclb thsI   pr-olto-s2.2                              56t5       58.7    56.5      0.3      7.1       7.9      7.6         96-
Sob--ol 71 . 3)                                    5.9     56.5       64.4    59.3      0.6       7.9      8.7       9.0         92-
4. Pco-oreset of1 Inhletolet
a.  - -ooono  Pot' calno    oos
atdCoanintatosqoipen-                                         7.3        7.3     7.3        -      1.0       7.  1.0             520 to
t.  Iroesn    f  -n,,tog  OsolltIot.
aedoc-uloal aId  and otioa  sipts0.6                              0.8      0.6       -        .t      0.1       0.1        700-
SottOtal 647                          -      t~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~.-  8.  8.1    -        .1      11         .        100-
5. fe-h,,i-l doloac          o 51CD0 and Prooincaa
T-oh-lo1 adivlrce f toe 510
1924 so,oh, each 1144 sO)                                  9.3        9.3     9.3        -      1.3       7.3      1.3        t30o
Pne9ldos4...nhaas-h  216lae                             12. 3 2.8      12.8 11.        -       7.       7.7      1.7        5035 
lobtotal 65)                                         -     22.1       22. 1 21.1          -       3.0      3.1       3. 0       31-0-
1 inIiallalnata  ao18 a/)-                                  3.0        3.0      3.0       -       0.4      0.4       0.4        300
b. T-hlntol ...siatanc    to tnstiu-
ala pevot   72 s/sI                                 7.1       1.4       2.4      2.4     0.1      01.2      0.3       1.3        700O
c   .. O  raa  adoa.ced  tec,nical t..ai"n1           0                     .                         .        .                     0
710 prtt   I  er  ahl                                .         .         .        .                 .        2        07          lI
d. StAtdo  tot(10 persona-  4sontha
eah)                                                -       0.5        1.5      0.3       -       0.1      0.1       0.1        100 
SOt-ntl 167                                        1.2       3.6       6.8      6.6     0.1       0.8      0.9       019         97/b 
7.Ctiliaiols
744127  alo                                       14.8         -       14.8   34.6       2.0        -       2 .0     2. 0       700o
b. Petaibilitysoudy toe IPrepration
project                              -     11.7       73~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3    71.1  -  3.5   7.5       1. 5       100 
lobtota1 11)                                      14.6     11.7       25.9    25.9      2.0       1.5      3.5       3.5      .12002
Sutoa    L0 22    181.6    162.4                               344.2  234.2    24.6        21.9     46.5      31.6         68/b 
S. tOCOTNGt 06ENC0 - StINISTOF o   P1841    oIGoAcn INFO)
1. Cototo      sroato
N.lol od
IaS   ae.o.      tbia,inldn
P..iOpiesodand  Tan  Cente
Acoa  od in Ian Joae (Pro-
onc -of  d-f4aca  Micdc.o.              155     81.0      44.0      125.0    62.5    10.9       1.0      76.9      6.4         50           108.3
2. MPH Ceotnl Soila  & saall,Lboe.to.
n-oo-ey and appananu                                   7.4     17.1       18.5    77.3      1.0      1.5       2.3       7.5        60 
3. Technlcolgsltne  n    o1ito    e os
in   o   )1(1Il) slop                          -      8.0        8.1     8.0        -      1.7       7.7      7.7        10I
aiperocalon  of Ices 166)21  shout   7.5     ~0.3        7.8     7.9    0.2                  0.2      0.2        100-
(cicc  ice financing)15  2 2.9                                    0.9      0.                  7 0.1   0.       0.1    I     5           0-3
t.  --l1TOC000 - MINISTOc OP T8.&eiPORTATION 83  CfQO3lICATIONS IIMTC
..cprad   in  eavie   717   /a)4                        9.5       9.5      9.5       -       17.3     1.3       1.3        170-
hubtoto1 (C)                                         -        .5       9.5      9.5       -       1.3      1.3       1.         300-
holnotol  8ic  C                           77   271.7    236,2       307.9  328.0    36.7        33.9     68.6     44.2          14-
D. CcNTIN0E1CIcS
1. Phptcl20   callas                                       7.2     23.t       50.6    30.8      3.7       3.2      6.9       4.4         64-
2.        i P J.                                          92.      12.       34.7       92     1.          .       09       734           4
hobtotol                                         77 9.7Z    85.8     205.5  132.0    16.2        11.6     27.8      37.8         64-
co"al (A to 0                            87 7 391.&4   322,0         713.4  460.       52.9     43.5      96.4     62.0         14-
h. 1-04  -QotlI--c                                            13.0         -      63.0        -      .5         -      8.5         -                         -
Oultotel                            ~~~~~         ~~~~~~~63.0  6 3.1  -      .5l       -        .5        -          --
Total Projec -1ott                       627    454.      322        764 460.0    11. 4         4.3.5   1049/    62.0/h          59-
ftPnocotlonccacsooseece   pic    noaseaoishIaonhtol nt    acef   loIflatt-one -  e                                              -
Loal Iat      70  fc   1980;  0%One167   t   7% e;        nt   hratr
Apeil 19800



- 63 -
Table 3.6
PRILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Road Construction and terovfent
Project Road Sections
E.tisioted
construction       1984         Int- -a1
Road     Length                                            cost /a     Population   Rote  . ,eturn
Province    no.       (kb)    Description                             (P'00)      per l2            (1)
I. S0LGCD and Provinces
A. Iloilo    41.05       11.7    Miag A.-La Consolacion                   2,700         1,425           39.5
41.05     (11.7)   With Kabsaka Project                     (2,700)       1,425           40.0
41.08       8.5    Igbaras-Passi                             3,534          744           42.0
41.05A     11.2    Maninilia-Igbaras                        4,851           732           16.5
41.11       5.0    Tubunosg-Lassg Norts /b                   1,673        1,487           19.2
41.15      11.2    Tigbauos-Ja..og                          3,767         1,675           34.7
41.15     (11.2)   With Kabsaka Project                     (3,767)       1,675           34.8
41.17       9.9    Otas-Son Antonio                          1,581        1,896           45.5
41.17      (9.9)   With KabsAka Project                     (1,581)       1,896           46.5
41.18      10.6    San Miguel-Tshucan (with bridge)         5,641         1,764           20.0
41.26      14.4    Patong Pstong-MSontaragaps                3,379          937           28.3
41.29       9.3    Tinu-uan-Msribayong                       2,262        1,309           26.5
41.35       5.9    Maanit-Agdsyao /b                         1,241        1,159           16.7
41.41      18.1    San Enrique-Badiang                       3,803        1,137           19.6
41.51      14.9    Sara-Muyco                                4,333          723           39.6
Other bRrangay roads in Kbahsak Project Area to be
later identified:
(1)      70.0    Construction and i=proezent by          15,500             -              -
contract. Costs to be partly
financed by the Bank.
(2)      50.0    Upgrading throagh force account,         7,500
using labor-based construction
methods. Costs to be borse
entirely by the Gove-neent.
(3)      80.0    Rehabilitation through intensive         5,600
oaintenanc. Costs to be borne
entirely by the G-ver-ment.
Subtotal  330.7                                            67,365
B. Cehb      43.01       26.3    Sonte Fe-Modridejos                     14,621         3,243          45.0
43.03      11.9    Pisanusgajan-Lo...k                      3,585         1,608           30.0
43.08      16.5    Sibonag-Popan                            5,133           800           26.9
43.08A     13.8    Pspan-D..nanjug                           5,074          800           26.9
43.11      15.9    Carcar-Olongo                            4,271         1,408           46.0
43.13      10.8    Carnen-Lascok                             3,281        2,042           19.2
43.22      18.5    TaIoot-Anajao                             5,353        1,126           24.3
Subtotal  113.7                                            41.318
C. Aklan     38.01B       7.5    Baton-Altavas                            2,774         3,878           26.4
38.02      21.7    Ronga-Libhcac                            6,893         3,066           54.5
38.03A      6.2    Aigbago-Masbuaoo                         1,806           981           48.4
38.10A      4.2    Cabangila-Catnonf b                       1,664        1,762           29.2
38.13       2.1    Ondoy-Antipolo                              527        1,060           31.9
38.15       7.2    Tambaan-Sulabod /b                       2,997         1,127           21.1
38.19       4.2    Batan-Mandong                             1,062        1,246           35.6
38.21       3.5    Bulac-Cssaani-Sapion /b                   1,194          837           36.0
38.22       5.9    Banga-Candelaria 1b                      2,069           792           30.4
38.24       4.1    Himbis-Baysog                             1,178        1,184           38.8
38.25       5.5    Feliciano-Calizo                          1,087        1,376           27.4
38.30A      2.4    Linayasan-Lunaynsy lb                       645        2,054           53.0
38.44       2.2    Toledo-Laserna                              346        1,491           22.0
Subtotal   76.7                                            24.242
D. Qu.eon    15.01       19.6    Unisan-Pitogo                            9,795           746           17.1
15.02      19.4    Unisos-Talaba                           10,755         1,052           35.9
15.03      39.1    Lopez-Buenavista                        18,560           854           34.8
15.04B     23.2    Son Francisco-Son Andres                 9,550         2,029           49.4
15.05      18.0    Buen.  Vista-Ssn Hernias                 8,175           810           24.1
15.08      19.5    Susculong-GCinoyangan                    6,971           898           20.0
Subtotal  138.8                                            63.806
E. Caoraines 25.03        7.9    Batobalani-Paracale                      3,180         1,266           27.0
25.06      13.0    DaSt-las Jose                            4,632           825           28.0
25.07      12.9    Daet-Inelda                               3,430          729           35.0
Subtotal   33.8                                             11.170
F. Ilocoas    07.01       7.2    St.. Doningo-Lanlhgen                    2,137           598          26.0
07.03       5.5    Caubgoo-NRgsingcs.an                      1.778          749           34.0
07.07       2.8    Nanaante-Mlagsingsl                         877          831           26.0
07.10       1.6    Pug-0s-Reppas.                              669        2,622           36.0
07.11       3.4    Calsn1 tian-B-racbsc                        781          579           31.0
07.14       4.9    Sinait-Dadalaguiten                      2,453         1,049           23.6
07.15       1.5    Sta. Catolins-Paratong                      322        2,862           55.0
Subtotai   26.9                                             9.017
Totals (I)  720.6                                           216.918
IS.  MPH
A. Ocoidental
Mindoro       148.9    San Joso-Monbhrao /c                    120,000         1,163          23.2
7.0    San Jose Port Access Road and
Town Cester Access Road                5,000        1,000           21.7
Totals (II)  155.9                                            125.000
Totals (I) and (II)  876.5                                            341.918
/a  Costs to be partly financed by the Bank, excopt where otherwise indicated.  For details of cost estinatna,
see Project File.
lb Barangay roads.
/c National and provincial roads. All others are provincial or barangoy rends.
Source:  Provincial a-thoritie., 1LG4D5. MPH, Consultants snd Mission.
April 1980



- 64 -
Table 3.7
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMEN' PROJECT
Provincial Workshops and Essipoent Pools; Quality Control Laboratories: and
Provincial Engineer's Offices - Present Facilities and Required Imprevenents
(Civil Works Only)
Estimated
Loca-   Present                                                                                    Financing           tEtal cast
Province      Typo of facility      ties    starts               Remarks                         Work required                        arrangements         (Pesos million)
A.  Iloilo       1.  Workshop and        Iloilo  Existing  Osly nicer ioprovenents  Install floor and rehabilitate light               Costs to be borne             0.080
equipment pool    City                  required.                  equipment shop; minor repairs throughout  entirely by Province.
facility.
2.  Quality control   Iloilo  Existing  Good condition.                 None.
laboratory          City
3.  Provincial engi-  t1oilo  Existing  Good condition, but             Provide additional satisfactory working   Costs to be borne                 0.060
neer's office       City                inadeqoate space.          space at sane or alternate locati-n.           entirely by Province.
B.  Cebu         1.  Workshop and        Cebu    Existing  Inadequate space;             Provide additional area for storage of    Costs to be borne                 0.125
equipment pool    City                 improvenents needed to   unused equipment; rehabilitate/improve            entirely by Province.
existing buildings.        administrstive office area; provide
spare parts storage and central area;
ninor repairs throughout facility.
2.  Quality control   Cebu    Existing  I-adequate space.               Provide additional usable space at sampe   Costs to be borne                0.040
laboratory         City                                            or alternate location.                         entirely by Province.
3.  Provi-cial engi-  Cebu    Existing  Good condition.                 None.
neer's office       City
C.  Aklan       1.  Workshop and         Kalibo  Existing  Good condition.              Rearrange for mare efficient operation;   Costs to be borne                 0.010
equipment pool                                                     soae minor repairs.                            entirely by Province.
2.  Quality control   Kalibo  Existing  Good condition.                 None.
laboratory
3.  Provincial engi-  Kalibo  Existing  Very good condition.            None.
neer's office
D. Quezon       1.  Workshop and         Lucena  Existing  Good condition.               Provide water supply; rearrange for more  Costs to be borne                0.050
equipment pool                                                     efficient operation.                           entirely by Province.
2.  Quality control   Lucena  Existing  Very good condition.            None.
laboratory
3.  Provincial cngi-  Lucena  Na feei-  -                               New facility required.                         Costs to be borne            0.150
neer's office                lity                                                                                 entirely by Province.
E.  Caa.rines  1.  Workshop asd          Dset    Unusable. No usable facilities.    New facility required.                             Costs tE  be partly           1.500
Norte           equipnent pool               New site                                                                              financed by the Govt.
required                                                                             Balance of required
funds to be provided
by the Province.
2.  Quality control  DUet    No faci-  -                                New facility required.                         Costs to be borne            0.100
laboratory                  lity                                                                                  entirely by Province.
3.  Provincial engi-  Daet    Eliating  Inadequate space.               New facility required                         Costs to be borne             0.500
oeer'n office                                                                                                     entirely by Province.
F.  Ilocos      1.  Workshop and         Vigan   Na feei-  No usable facility, but  Completion of new facility required.               Costs to be partly           2.450
Sfr             equipment pool               lity       work begun on new site.                                                    financed by the Bank.
Balance of required
fends to be provided
by the Province./b
2.  Quality control   Vigan   No faci-  -                               New facility required.                        Costs to be partly            0.100
laboratory                   lity                                                                                 financed by the Rank.
Balanee of required
funds to be provided
by the Province./b
3.  Provincial engi-  Vigao   Existing  Very unsatisfactory             Rehabilitation or new site required.           Costs to be borne            0.500
neer's office                           conditions.                                                               entirely by Province.
Total Cost (Pesos million)        5.665
Say P 5.7 million
D. Does sat include land acquisition c-sts or the cost of pr-cur-ment of tools, machinery and equipment.
Tb Funds nay instead be initially provided by the National Governme-t sad later recovered free the provinces.
Source: Provincial Engineers, MLGCD and Mission.
March 1980



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Provincial Maintenance Facilities and Equipment, Workshop Machinery, Tools and Equipment
Number of units by province                           Unit   Total    Unit cost  Total cost
Camarines  Ilocos   Total    price  cost/a  CIF Manila  CIF Manila
Item/description                                     Iloilo   Cebu   Aklan  Quezon    Norte        Sur    quantity  --(EL '000)        --    -   (US$'000)--
A. Maintenance Equipment /b
1. Road grader, motorized articulated              3        5       3       -         2         1         14       530    7,420       71.7       1,002.7
(125 hp)
2. Road roller, steel tandem (8-lOT)                3       9       3        -         4        1         20       300    6,000       40.5         810.8
3. Loader, front end, wheeled articulated           -        1      2        2         2        1          8       398    3,184       53.8         430.2
(2-1/2 cu yd)
4. Truck, dump (5-6 cu yd)                         14       14      9       10         5        5         57       275   15,675       37.2       2,118.2
5. Truck, water with sprinkler (1,000 gal           8       6       3        4         2        3         26       220    5,720       29.8         773.0
capacity)
6. Roller, pneumatic, self-propelled (6-8T)         2       -       3        -         -        -          5       212    1,060       28.6         143.2
7. Tractor dozer, crawler (140 hp)                  2       3       2        1         -        1          9       674    6,066       91.1         819.7         U
8. Concrete mixer (2 bagger)                        2       3       1        -         1        2          9        35       315       4.7          42.5
9. Fuel tank truck (1,000 gal capacity)             -       -       -        2         -        -          2       220       440      29.7          59.5
10. Truck, tractor with low bed trailer (30T)    -           -       -        1         - I                 1       663       663      89.6          89.6
11. Cutter, grass, portable                          -       -       -       40        -         -         40        30    1,200        4.1         162.2
B. Workshop Tools and Equipment and
Shop Tools
1. Mobile maintenance shop                          1        1      1        1         1        1          6       516    3,096       69.7         418.4
2. See list in Project File                         -       -       -        -         -        -          -         -    1,600        -           216.2
C. Utility Vehicles
1. Pickup truck                                     3       3       3        2         2        2         15       118    1,770       15.9         238.5
2. Truck, stake body                                1        1      3        1         1        1          8       200    1,600       27.0         216.2
Total                                                                                                          P 55.809              US$7,540.9
Say US$7.54 million
/a Does not include local handling and transportation costs, estimated at P 2.2 million, which will be entirely borne by the Government.
/b Includes spare parts.
Source:  Provincial Engineers, IILGCD and Mission.
April 1980
I.,



Table 3.9
-66-                                                         Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Quality Control Laboratory Apparatus and Equipment
Number of items required by province                          Unit cost  Total cost
Camarines  Ilocos   Total    CIF Manila  CIF Manila
Item   Description                           Iloilo    Cebu   Aklan  Quezon    Norte          Sur    required       (US$)        (US$)
1.  Set of laboratory sieves                  -        -       -        -         1           1         2           500         1,000
2-1/2", 2", 1-1/2", 1",
3/4", 1/2", 3/8", #4, #8,
#10, #16, #30, #40, #50,
#100, #200, with pan and
cover
2.  Sample splitter (2-1/2"                   -        1       _        _          1          1         3            175          525
chute width), stainless
steel
3.  Sample splitter (112"                     -        I       -                   1         1         3            150          450
chute width), stainless
steel
4.  Hydrometer jars, case                     -        -       -        -          1          1         2            125          250
5.  Standard compaction mold,                 -        I       -        -          1          1         3             60          180
vol. 1/30 cu ft, 4" I.D.
x 4.584" high
6.  Compaction rammer, std.,                  -        -       -        -         1           1         2             45           90
2" dia. (5.5 lb - 12"
drop
7.  Compaction rammer, modified,              -                -        -         1           1         3            50           150
2" dia. (10 lbs - 18" drop)
8.  Hydrometer                                -        -       -        -          1          1         2             15           30
9.  CBR cylinder mold, 6" I.D.                -                                    I -  -  1  1         3             75          225
x 7" high
10.  Standard field compaction                 -        -       -        -          1          1         2            450          900
set
11.  Moisture content cans                     -        -       -        -        24          24        48              3          144
12.  Atterberg limit set                       -        -       -        -         2           2         4            120          480
13.  Sieve shaker, motorized,                  1        1       -        1          1          1         5            700        3,500
220V-50 cycle, 1 phase AC
14.  Graduated cylinders, plastic              -        -       -        -          1          1         2             50          100
(set) (500 ml, 250 ml, 100 ml,
50 ml, 25 ml)
15.  Volumetric flask, case (250 ml)           -        -       -        -         1           1         2            40            80
16.  Volumetric flask, case (500 ml)           -        -       -        -          1          1         2            100          200
17.  Sp. gr. wire basket (for                  -        -       -        -          1          1         2             40           80
coarse aggregate)
18.  Sand cone, density                        -        -       1        -          1          1         3             65          195
(standard) with extra jug
19.  Density sand (100 pounds)                 -        -       -        -        12          12        24             20          480
20.  Modified compaction mold,                 -        1       -        -          1          1         3             75          225
vol. 1/13.33 cu ft, 6" I.D.
x 4.584" high
Subtotal:      US$9,284



Table 3.9
Page 2 of 2
- 67-
Number of items required by province                         Unit cost  Total cost
Camarines  Ilocos   Total    CIF Manila  CIF Manila
Item  Description                           Iloilo   Cebu   Aklan  Quezon    Norte          Sur    required    (US$)           (US$)
21.  Mortar & pestle, rubber-                  -        I      -        -          1          1         3            20            60
tipped pestle; mortar, 5"
dia., 2-1/2" high, heavy
porcelain
22.  Oven, sample drying                       1        1      -        -          1          1         4         1,000        4,000
23.  CBR testing machine complete              1        1      -         1         1          1         5         1,800        9,000
with mold and accessories
24.  Triple beam balance                       -       -       -        -          1          1         2           125          250
(2,610 grams cap.)
25.  Triple beam balance                       1        1      -        -          1          1         4           135          540
(310 grams cap.)
26.  Torsion balance set,                     -         1      -        -         -           -         1           700          700
heavy capacity, 4-1/2 kg,
sensitivity, 0.2 gm,
graduated dial, 100 gm
by 1 gm, beam 500 gm
by 100 gm, with case and
set of weights
27.  Field scale (36 lbs                      -         I      -        -          1          1         3           200          600
capacity)
28.  Shovel and brush, etc.                   -        -       -        -          3          3         6            20           120
29.  Pick and chisel, etc.                    -        -       -        -         3           3         6            35          210
30.  Masons hammer, scoop, etc.               -        -       -        -          3          3         6            15            90
31.  Post hole auger (4" dia.                  -       -       -        -          1          2         3            40           120
with 36" extension)
32.  Earth auger, screw type,                  -        1       1       -          1          2         5            60          300
1-1/2" dia. - 6" long
flight section, extension
36"
33.  Field soil testing set                   -        -       1        -         1           1         3         1,000        3,000
(combination of density and
moisture measuring devices)
34.  Los Angeles abrasion                      1        1      1        1         -          -          4         3,500       14,000
machine with extra charges
35.  Combination concrete com-                 -        1      1        -          1          1         4         3,000       12,000
pression and flexure test-
ing machine with accessories
36.  Cylinder mold, concrete                   -       -       -        -        12          12        24            40          960
37.  Beam mold (6" x 6" x 18"),                -        -      -        -          3          3         6           120           720
concrete
38.  Slump cone set, concrete                  -       -       -        -          1          1         2            80           160
39.  Vertical cylinder capper                  -       -       -        -          1          1         2           500        1,000
with extra compound (100 lbs)
40.  Miscellaneous small items                 -       -       -        -         -           -         -             -          500
Subtotal (page 2)                                                                                     48,330
Subtotal (page 1)                                                                                      9,284
Total                                                                                             US$57.614
say US$58.000
Source: Provincial Engineers, MLGCD and Mission.
February 1980



PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPRIVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement af Enntneerino EquE1oen.t Technical Tools and Apparatus.
Office Equipment-   Co=unications Equipment and Utility nVhiclen for
M7GCD and Pro-incial PDSs and PEOn
No. of itemn                                                    Nbe  c   t.e   required by prcvince                                                            Total No.    Total Np.   Uirt -cot    Tctal  .c.t
Ite     D--icrlptl-n                 r-quired by             llil                    Cebu                   Aklbn                  Ouezon_            Canarnen Norte            -locon Sor          of Ite    t         a          CIF Manila    CIF Man-l1
MLGCD         PDS   PEO   TntTl PD1   PEO   Tol    PDS   PEO    Total   PDS   PEO   rotal   iPDS   PEO   Total   PDS   PEO   Totai                          provincen        items          (US$)          (USl)
A.  Offioe aca En..id nerino
Eq uipment
1.   an-al typertter                     -            -      -       -       -      -        -       -      I       I       -      -        -       1      1       2       -      -       -             3              3               900        2,700
(stantard carriage)
2.  loncel type-riters                   8            2      -       2        -      -       -       -      2       2       -       -       -       I      1       2        1      1       2            8             16            1,200         19,200
(26" long carriage)
3.  i-anal typewriters                   2            2      2       4        2      3       5       2      3       5       2       2       4       1      1       2       2      2        4           24             26            1,500        39,000
(29' long carriage)
4.  Electic type-rit-rn                 10            -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -       -      -       -       -      -       -             -             10            1,50        15,000
5.  Electrostatic copier                  I            I     -        I       I      -       I       I      -        I       I      -       I       I      -       I        I     -        1            6              7           25,000       175,000
with collator, i-cl.
spare part, snpplies
(1 year) and accesno-
ries
6.  Desk clculator-                     10            4      4       8        3      4       7       3      3       6       4      2        6       3      3       6       3      2        5           38             48                60        2,880
7.  Prograneablo desk                    4            2      2       4        2      2       4       1      1       2        1      2       3       -      -       -       -      -       -            13             17               300        5,100
calIculators
8.  Scannerandrelatednten-                I           I      _        i       --  I_                 _      I        I       I      -       I       -      -       -        I     -        1            4              5            9,000        45,000
cil making and printing
equipment, in-l. o-resac-
rlee and spare partt
9.  Stel filing cabinets                40            4      -       4        4      -       4       4     10      14       4      -        4       2      2       4       2      2        4           34             74               250        18,500
10.  De-ks ad chair                      40            -      -       -                       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -            -             40               150         6,000
11.  Typist desks,  ork tables           10            -      -       -        -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -            -             10               150         1,540
and rali-
12.  Drafting rooaircon-                  2            _      _       _        _      I       I       -      I        I      -       _       -       -      I       I               I I     1            4              6            1,000          6,000
ditioners
13.    ..iscellannoos spare partn,        -            -      -       -        -      -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -        -            -              -            5.000          5.000
acce.sorios and supplies
(one year)
B. Draftiln Equip.ment and Instruments
1.  Plaaiseter-  ith cmpltet             2            2      2       4       2      2        4       2      1       3       2      3        5       2      2       4       2      2       4           24              26              500        13,000
accessories
2.  Draftitg tools and                   6            -      -       -       -      -        -       -      2       2       -      -        -       -      2       2       -      2        2            6             12            1,000        12,000
acre6snorles
3.  Lery type lettertig set,             6            2      2       4        2      2       4       2      3       5       2       2       4       2      2       4       1      2        3           24             30               800       19,200
complete with tools and
4.  Whit. prlnting (Dyeline)             1            _                  I             I             -      I       I       -       I       I       -      I       I       -       I       1            6              7            3,000        21,000
mac-hio with coeplete
accessories and sapplins
(I year) rnd spare parts
5.  Adjustable drafting  table           6            3      3       6        2      2       4       2      3       5       3       2       5       2      2       4       2      2        4           28             34               250         8,500
with rllrT
6.  Draftin  machi.es                    6            _      2       2        -      2       2       -      3       3       -       2       2       -      1       1       -      2        2           12             18               400         7,200
7.  Steel plan file cabinets            10                   -       - --                    -       -      4       4       -      1        1       -      2       2       -      2       2             9             19              400          7,600



No. of items                                                     Number of items required by province                                                              Total No.    Total No.   Unit cotL    Total coot
Item   Description                     roqoir-d by            Iloilo                   Cebu                    Akian                   QOueog             Camarines Norte           Ilocos Sot           of items for        of         CIF M.oila    CIF Moji a
MLGCD         PDS   PEO   Total    PDS   PEO   Total   PDS   PE0   Total   PDS   PEO   Total   PDS   PEN    Total   PDS   PEN    Total                          provinces        it...           (US$N )        (US$)
C. Nuronyloon toolomoot
1.  E.g.o-or's trsnit co-ploto            2            _       2       2       -       2       2       -       2       2       -       2       2       -       1       1        _      I       I            10             12             7,000        84,000
uith std. factory .co.sso-
ries ia Iase, il-ludiog
extension log tripod
2.  Iugloeoc-s lovel (Wye),               2            _       2       2        -      2       2        -      2       2        -      2       2        -      I        1                                   10              12              INN          9,600
completo uith std. factory
accessoties in canse, linc.
extenuaon leg tripod
3.  Stoel tape (100  etr)                 2            _       2       2        -      2       2        -      2       2        -      2       2        -                  I        I                       10              12              300          3,600
4.  Cltttllpe (50 mt-r)                    2            _      -       -        -      2        2       -      1        1       -      I       1        -      I        I       _      I        1            6               8                80           640
5.  Lvoliog rod                            2            -      -       -        -      4       4        -      I        I       -      I       I        -      2       2        -      2        2           10              12                50           600
6.  Hand leel                              3            -      2       2        -      2        2       -      I        I       -      2       2        -      2       2        -       I       I           IN              12                50           600
7.  Stadia rod                            2            -       -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -       -       I       1        -      2        2            3               5                50           250
I.  Eange pole                             6            -      -       -        -      4       4        -      -       -        -      4       4        -      4       4        -      4        4           16              22                25           550
9.  Traffic couoters                       2            -      4       4        -      4       4        -      4       4        -      4       4        -      2       2        -      2        2           20              22               600        13,200
10.  M-scellaneoussurveying                -             -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -        -            -               -            9,000          9.000
toolo and accessories., itl.
manuals aod books
N. Com-uslatlos E-uiPment
1.  Y'F/FMmobilotransceiver               -            -       -                   -           -        -      5       5               -       -       -       3       3        -      4        4           12              12            2,100         25,200
sith antenna
2.  VdF/FM base transeive-                -                -       -       -       -           -        -      I        I       _      _       _        _      1        I       _       1       1            3               3            2,600          7,800
wIth anotn.a
3.  SSB/HF transceiver with               -             -      -       -        -      -       -               -       -        -      -       -        -      1        -                                    2               2            4,000          8,000
complete accessories
4.  Spare.prtsndnlnc.tools                -             -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -       -        -      -        -       -      -        -            -               -             1,500         1,500
and accessories
E. UtilitY Vehicles
1.  Serviceautos (sed-n)                  8             -      -       -        _      _       _                                                                                                             -               8            8,000         64,000
2.  A11 terrain, 4-wheel drive            4             2      -       2        2      -        2       2      -        2       2      _       2        2      -        2       2      -        2           12              16           12,000        192,000
vatbclos
1.  Mini-buse;                            2            1      _        1        1     _        I        I      _       1       1       -       I        I      _       I        I      _        1            6               8           16,000       128,000
4.  MIesso.g.r motor bicycles              3            -      -       -        -      -       -               -       -               -       -        -      -        -       -       .       -            -               3            2,000          6,000
S.  Spare parts far all ve-hilen                 -         -       -       -       -       -        -          -       -        -      -       -        -      -        -       -      -        -            -               -             3,000         3,000
including additional spare
I icon
Total loot         US5986. 920
Source:  fr-v-no  Atot-oities, 11111 and Mission estimate-
J.na.ty  1980



Table 3.11
- 70 -
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Training Equipment and Supplies for MLGCD
No. of        Unit cost      Total cost
units        CIF Manila      CIF Manila
Item  Description                          required          (US$)            (US$)
A.   Training Equipment
1.  Audio-visual slide-tape
recorders and playback
units                               3              950             2,850
2.  35 mm cameras and acces-
sories                              3              850             2,550
3.  Slide duplicator                    1               530              530
4.  Tape duplicator                     1               540              540
5.  Overhead projectors                 7               850            5,950
6.  Video-tape p'a;back units
with monitor                        7            4,250            29,750
7.  Video-tape camera and
recorder                            1            3,200             3,200
8.  Miscellaneous tools,
accessories and spare parts         I set        1,500             1,500
Subtotal                                                     46,870
B.   Training Supplies
1.  Reproduction of training
courses: slides, tapes,
and trays - 200 courses             2,000           20           40,000
2.  Film rolls and reproduction
costs                               1,000            7             7,000
3.  Transparencies (boxes)                100            55            5,500
4.  Manual bindings (cerlox)
(boxes)                               100           10            1,000
5.  Illustrator supplies & mis-
cellaneous items (48 months)        -                -            10,300
Subtotal                                                     63.80
Total Cost (US$)                                            110,670/a
Say US$ 111,000
/a Based on December 1979 prices.
Source: MLGCD, Consultants and Mission estimates.
February 1980



- 71 -                           Table 3.12
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Training for MLGCD and Local Governments
(US$)
Man-         Estimated  Travel and  Estimated
Item                       months  Rate      fee      subsistence   total
cost
1. Training consultants for
program development and
initial implementation            48    7,500   360,000      52,000      412,000
2. Technical assistance to
institute an on-the-job
training program in road
maintenance operations in
the six provinces
I expatriate expert
@ 2 years                    24    6,500   156,000       25,000
2 local experts
@ 2 years each               48    2,000    96,000       35,000
Subtotal                  (72)  (3,500) (252,000)   (60,000)    312,000
3. Advanced technical train-
ing (overseas) for permanent
staff of province PDSs, PEOs
and MLGCD - 10 @ 1 year each   120          -          -    100,000      100,000
4. Technical study tours for
permanent staff of provin-
ce PDSs, PEOs and MLGCD
- 10 @ 4 months each             40         -          -     62,000       62,000
Total                     292         -   702,000    287,000      886,000
Say US$ 0.9 million
Note: Salaries of government employees will continue to be paid by the
government during the training period.
Source: MLGCD, Consultants and Mission.
March 1980



Table 3.13
- 72 -
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance /a
(US$)
Estimated costs
Travel
Man-                       and sub-    Total
Item.      Position                  months  Rate        Fee      sistence    cost
A. Technical Assistance Through MLGCD /b
1. Technical advisors to
MLGCD - 6 @ 2 years each        144    7,500  1,080,000  180,000   1,260,000
2. Provincial advisors to
PDSs - 3 @ 2 years each          72    7,000    504,000   72,000        576,000
3. Provincial advisors to
PEOs - 6 @ 2 years each         144    7,000  1,008,000  144,000   1,152,000
Subtotal                    360    7,200  2,592,000  396,000   2,988,000
B. Technical Assistance Through MOTC
Technical advisors to MOTC/NEDA
for transport advisory
services                        124    8,500  1,054,000  242,000/c 1,296,000
Subtotal                    124    8,500  1,054,000  242,000/c 1,296,000
Total (A + B)               484    7,530  3,646,000  638,000   4,284,000
Say US$4.3 million
/a Costs are to be financed wholly by the Bank. For training-related technical
assistance, see Table 3.12.
/b A portion of these costs will be refunded to the National Government by the
provinces under a cost-sharing formula to be later established.
/c Includes the purchase of eight vehicles.
Note: PDS: Provincial Development Staff
PEO: Provincial Engineer's Office
Source: MLGCD and Mission.
March 1980



Table 3.14
- 73 -
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank fiscal year                   Cumulative disbursements
and quarter                             (US$ million)
1980/81
September 30, 1980                            -
December 31, 1980                             0.1
March 31, 1981                                0.2 -
June 30, 1981                                 0.5
1981/82
September 30, 1981                            2.2
December 31, 1981                             4.0
March 31, 1982                                6.5
June 30, 1982                                10.0
1982/83
Septembex 30, 1982                           14.0
December 31, 1982                            18.5
lIarch 31, 1983                              23.5
June 30, 1983                                28.5
1983/84
September 30, 1983                           34.0
December 31, 1983                            39.5
March 31, 1984                               45.5
June 30, 1984                                51.5
1984/85
September 30, 1984                           57.0
December 31, 1984                            60.5
March 31, 1985                               61.5
June 30, 1985 /a                             62.0
/a Loan closing date.
Source: Government/mission's estimates.
April 1980



-74 -                               Table 4.1
AVERAGE PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN SALES VOLUME IN 1968 FROM
ONE YEAR BEFORE AND ONE YEAR AFTER ROAD CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVING THE ACCESS TO THE BARRIO
Increase
in sales
Crop                  No. of                                             volume
type                  barrios              Unit                           (%)
Rice                    22                  Cavans (50 kg)                  24
Corn                    20                 Cavan shelled                   104
Tobacco                  10                Kg                               96
Bananas                  14                 Piece                           12
Coconut                  9                 Thousand nuts                    30
Source: The Value of Rural Roads by P.S. Villanueva, University of the
Philippines, 1968.



- 75 -                             Table 4.2
AVERAGE DECREASE IN TRANSPORTATION COSTS
AFTER ROAD CONSTRUCTION IN 1968
Transportation
price (Pesos)
Unit price                Year         Year          Percent
Product             (per km)                before        after       reduction
Rice               Cavan                      0.2          0.1            50
Corn               Cavan                      0.5          0.3            40
Rootcrops          Sack                       0.5          0.2            60
Coconuts           Truck load                10.0          5.0            50
Source:  The Value of Rural Roads, by P.S. Villanueva, University of the
Philippines, 1968.



- 76 -                          Table 4.3
Estimated Traffic on Project Roads
(Average Annual Daily Traffic)
Road No.   Sta. No.                   Name                             AADT
15.01        01         Cawayanin Pitogo Road                            82
15.01        02         Barangay Nag. Cruz Highway Crossing
Pitogo Poblacion Road                         161
15.02        01         Bgy. MIalusak-Talaba-Unisan Road                226
15.03        03         Bgy. Pamampangin-Lopex-Lalaguna Road            115
15.04-A       07        Poblacion Bgy. Inabawan                          51
15.08        04         Bgy. Rital Ibaba-Sumulong jct.
Guinayangan                                     181
38.01        B          Man-up - Batan Road                             933
38.02         02        Banga-Bacay-Sigcay-Lapmag Polo Road             482
38.02        02-1       Badiangan-Torralba-Daguitan Road                137
38.03        A          Agbaco-Mamburao Road                            209
38.10        A          Cbangila-Catmon Road                            315
38.13                   Ondoy-Antipolo Road                             148
38.15                   Tambuan-Bulabod-Malinao Road                    439
38.19                   Batan-Mandong Road                              498
38.21         01        Ambolang-Palay Bulac Road                       498
38.21         02        Bulac-Sapian Boundary                           318
38.22         22        Bo. Manggan Road                                187
38.24                   Himbis - Bayang Road                             10
38.25                   Feliciano-Calizo Road                            20
38.30        30-A       Bo. Lumaymay Road                                90
38.44                   Toledo-Laserna Road                              72
41.05        P-05       Miagao-Tan-Agan-Caduldolan Road                 203
41.08                   Igbaras-Passi Road                               49
41.08        A          Maninila-Icbaras Road                           194
41.11                   Tabungan-Lanag Norte Road                        48
41.15        P-15       Parara (Tigbauan) Buenavista-Dapdap Rd.         227
41.17        P-17       Oton-sta. Clara-Amania Road                     387
41.18                   San Miguel Tabucan Road                          83
41.26                   Patong-Patong-Montemagapa Road                   56
41.29                   Tinucuan-Maribuyong (Duenas) Road               168
41.35                   Man-It - Agoayao Road                           302
41.41                   San Enrique - Badiang Road                      385
41.51                   Barangay Bato-Sara Road                         303
43.01                   North of Bantayang-Madridejos Road              713
43.01        B          From Sta. Fe-Bantayan Road                      224
43.01        C          Sta. Fe Port Lroad (Midway)                     297
43.01        D          West of Bantayan-Sta. Fe Road                   703
43.03                   From Pinamungahan-Lamak Road                     14
43.08                   Fom Sibonga-Papab Road                          382
43.11         11        Carcar-Valencia Road                            182
43.13                   From Carmen-Lamak Road                          123
43.22         22        Talaot - Langub Feeder Road                      37



Table 4.4
- 77 -
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS IN PESOS PER KM ON LEVEL GRAVEL ROADS
SEPTEMBER 1979 PRICES EXCLUDING TAXES
Per Passenger Km
A             B          C            D            E
Road condition   by Walking  by Jeepney  by Tricycle  by Mini Bus   by Boat
Good                   -           0.08          0.14         0.05          -
Fair                   -           0.10          0.17         0.06          -
Bad                    -           0.13          0.23         0.08          -
Very bad              0.25         0.17          0.35         0.11          0.40
Impassable for
vehicles            0.25         -                          -            0.40
Per Ton-Km
F            G            H           I          J        K
by Jeepney                        by Tri-
by Head Carry  by Sledge    or Bus    by Truck   by Boat   cycle
Good              -            -            0.55       0.23        -        1.15
Fair              -            -           0.66        0.27        -        1.35
Bad               -            -            0.83       0.37        -        1.75
Very bad         20.00        10.00         1.04       0.46        4.20    2.50
Impassable for
vehicles       20.00        10.00        -           -           4.20    -



Table 4.5
- 78 -
ECONOMIC MAINTENANCE COSTS PER km GRAVEL ROADS Ic
Vehicles AADT           Routine per Year            Periodic /b
0-49                     P 5,210
50-99                        6,510                 P 41,660
100-149                       7,810                 every 5 years
150-199                      9,770
200-249                      11,720
250-299                      14,320
300-349                      16,930
350-399                      19,530
400 and over                22,130
/a September 1979 prices
/b 10 cm. thickness



Table 4.6
- 79 -
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
+20S on Total Benefits   -201 on Total Benefits
Road No.    -20X on Total Costa        +201 on Total Costs       -20X on Total Coats
Quezon
15.01               22.18                       12.51                     19.82
15.02               47.06                       32.3                      44.0
15.03               42.06                       26.4                      39.3
15.04B              55.2                        42.2                      49.8
15.05               31.6                        24.0                      28.0
15.08               24.47                       15.68                     22.42
Aklan
38.01B              37.43                       17.71                     32.16
38.02               60.0                        42.0                      57.0
38.03A              60.33                       38.92                  _ 54.65
38.1OA              35.63                       23.51                     32.60
38.13               37.89                       26.40                     35.11
38.15               26.39                       16.33                     23.94
38.19               42.67                       29.26                     39.36
38.21               44.19                       28.95                     40.31
38.22               40.5                        22.4                      36.5
38.24               45.93                       32.37                     42.61
38.25               33.98                       21.61                     30.92
38.30A              58.5                        47.0                      54.0
38.44               30.10                       15.04                     26.31
Iloilo
41.05               46.5                        23.2                      40.8
41.08               49.64                       34.94                     46.10
41.08A              22.22                       11.41                     19.56
41.11               25.26                       13.82                     22.44
41.15               46.5                        23.2                      40.8
41.17               52.5                        39.5                      48.8
41.18               26.62                       14.30                     23.52
41.26               35.26                       22.09                     31.98
41.29               34.38                       19.74                     30.69
41.35               24.45                        9.91                     20.83
41.41               26.61                       13.33                     23.35
41.51               53.14                       28.79                     46.65
Cebu
43.01               53.96                       38.88                     50.20
43.03               35.05                       23.50                     32.24
43.08               34.50                       20.59                     30.91
43.11               56.5                        38.6                      58.5
43.13               25.28                       13.93                     22.43
43.22               31.5                        17.8                      27.7
Occidental
Mindoro
San Jose-Mamburao  25.6                         20.8                      23.2
San Jose Port Road 24.2                         18.4                      21.7
Rt 201



ANNEX 5
- 80 -                             Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A-1   Ten-Year Infrastructure Development Programs, 1977-86, two volumes:
I. Physical Targets
II. Capital Investment Requirements, March 1976, by PPDO of MPWTC.
A-2   Physical Perspective Plan for the Philippines, 1976, by PPDO of
MPWTC.
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
I. Studies
B-1   Rural Roads Program:  Organization, Management and Training Report,
1979, by Bergstralh and Shaw Associates (USA).
B-2   Feasibility Study (2 volumes), San Jose to Paluan Road, Occidental
Mindoro, and Links to Oriental Mindoro, 1977, by Renardet-Sauti-ICE/
F.F. Cruz e Co., Inc. (Italy/Philippines).
B-3   Mindoro Integrated Rural Development Project (Road Component), Re-
evaluation of San Jose to Mamburao Road and Links to Oriental
Mindoro-Engineering Report, August 1979 by Renardet-Sauti-ICE/F.F.
Cruz & Co., Inc. (Italy/Philippines).
B-4   Philippines Rural Roads Improvement Project:  Proposed Pilot Project
for Labor-Based Construction, November 1979 by Scott Wilson Kirk-
patrick & Partners (U.K.).
B-5   Philippines Rural Road Improvement Project:  Initial Screening and
Reconnaissance Report (4 volumes). Provinces of Iloilo. Cebu, Aklan
and Quezon, April 1979 by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners
(U.K.).
B-6   Philippines Rural Road Improvement Project:  Initial Screening and
Reconnaissance Report (2 volumes), Provinces of Camarines Norte and
Ilocos Sur, September 1979 by Charles M. Upham International, Inc.
(USA).
B-7   Five-Year Maintenance Program (MPH), 1976-80, text volume and two
appendix volumes, April 1975, by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA).
B-8   Highway Maintenance Manual, May 1975 by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark/USA)



ANNEX 5
-81 -                               Page 2
B-9   Organization and ManaRement Study (MPH), September 1978 by Roy
Jorgensen Associates, Inc. (USA).
II.  Detailed Engineering Reports
B-10 Philippines Rural Roads Prolect: Detailed Reconnaissance Report,
(4 volumes), Provinces of Iloilo, Cebu, Aklan, Quezon. Camarines
Norte and Ilocos Sur, November 1979 by Charles M. Upham Inter-
national, Inc. (USA).
B-11  Philippines Rural Roads Improvement Project:  Supplementary Detailed
Reconnaissance Report. Quezon Province, November 1979 by Victor S.
Zelouf, Consultant (USA).
B-12  Rural Roads Protram:  Project Development Report, 1979 by Bergstralh
and Shaw Associates (USA).
B-13 San Jose-Paluan Road in Occidental Mindoro, Design Report and Design
Drawings. Tender Documents. Price Analysis. Engineers' Estimates.
Proposal Book (12 volumes), January 1978 by Renardet-Sauti-ICE/F.F.
Cruz & Co., Inc. (Italy/Philippines).
B-14  IBRD Highway Prolects Guidelines (National Rcads), June 1976, by
Scott Wilson, Kirkpatrick & Partners (SWKP), General Consultants
(U.K.).
B-15  General Specifications for Roads and Bridges in the Philippines
(National Roads), 1976 by SWKP.
B-16  General Conditions of Contract (National Roads), 1976 by SWKP.
B-17 Standard Tender Documents (National Roads), June 1976 by SWKP.
III. Government Reports
B-18 Rural Roads Improvement Project: Detailed Economic Analysis
Report. Provinces of Iloilo. Cebu, Aklan and Quezon, February 1980
by Planning and Project Development Office (PPDO) of MPH.
B-19 Economic Re-Evaluation for Occidental Mindoro Roads, November 1979
by PPDO of MPH.
B-20 Rural Roads Improvement Project: Supplementary Report on Detailed
Reconnaissance for Cebu, Iloilo and Aklan, March 1980 by PDAP/MLGCD.



ANNEX 5
- 82 -                               Page 3
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1 Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Consultancy
Services
(a) Design, detailed engineering and construction supervision of
rural roads included in the Project.
(b) Construction supervision of national roads included in the
Project.
(c) Design and construction supervision of provincial workshop and
quality control laboratory improvements.
(d) Design and construction supervision of new MPH Central Soils
and Materials Laboratory.
(e)  Technical assistance advisory services to MLGCD and Provincial
Governments (PDSs and PEOs).
(f) Technical assistance advisory services to MOT.
C-2   Estimated Cost and Benefit Streams for the Prolect Roads
C-3   Procurement
(a) Detailed list of road maintenance equipment to be procured
under the Project.
(b) List of workshops and details of construction or improvements
to be made under the Project.
(c) Detailed list of workshop tools and machinery, hand tools,
and parts and components for existing equipment to be procured
under the Project.
(d) Detailed list of engineering equipment, apparatus, office
equipment, supplies and vehicles to be procured under the
Project for NLGCD, PDSs and PEOs, including training equipment
and supplies.
(e) Detailed list of required soils and materials testing equipment
for provincial quality control laboratories.



ANNEX 5
- 83 -                               Page 4
C-4   Working Papers for Appraisal Report
WP-1   Parameters for Price Contingency Calculations
WP-2   Cash Flow Analysis and Contingency Calculation- for Project
Components
WP-3   Provincial Road Networks, Organization, Equipment and
Maintenance Conditions
WP-4   Provincial Rainfall Data
WP-5   Axle Load Control Program for National Roads
WP-6   Road Maintenance: Physical Targets and Estimated Costs for
the National Road Network, 1977-82: Road Restoration
Program (National Roads)
WP-7   Road Maintenance:  MPH Workshop Construction and Improvement
for National Roads
WP-8   Road Maintenance:  Procurement of MPH Road Maintenance Equip-
ment for the National Road System
WP-9   Technical Assistance Under Fourth Highway Project
WP-10 Road Maintenance: Physical Targets and Estimated Costs for
the National Road Network, 1977-82: Normal Road Maintenance
WP-11 Procurement of Soils and Materials Testing Equipment for
MPH under Fourth Highway Project
WP-12 Preliminary Engineering Methodology - Detailed Reconnaissance
for Proposed Rural Roads Improvement including detailed cost
estimates
WP-13 Public Transport Investment Programs and Sources of Funds
FY68/82
WP-14 Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data 1970-1985
WP-15 Organizational Structure of MLGCD
WP-16  Summary of Rural Roads Programs Office RRP, Proposed Staffing
Plan
WP-17 Traffic Estimates
WP-18 The Action Program for Agricultural Development






PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
ORGANIZATION CHART
AA...tettM  -                     Minister A n   Asst. Mi-tiAt
|-t Mlut -lIlstr 
M.p-    D-P,                                                                                                                                          E .,   P-n   g    
Asst MlnisTe   Assistan;   nister       e       As-t. MOffr          l                litr'                                      uli   eaios        1A                  . Mlni-er 
IPervoentel Management      |IF inane Al denegementl  |               Admintrrasiton                                              -l(lnin      Prlos
[Manpower Deelpn [n                    Fieancia     3 g                   diitaie                            ea  evc                                     r  Ecatir                    & PrjeLeeglop        Sentic           Specia Pr&oj ects  D
rrSnn  CoTs
Management                                                                                          Monitoring and                     Peogra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dimm,t
Developlmentato                      Matagemett                        ten Serice                                                                        aticns Mgtt |F1rtiit
Dicitin                          DiciIin                          Dt Ovision                                                                   Sffic
Training CourseAccacnticesnnlCopaitg                                                                                                       PErfomnce                        Ttff SRad1,
PrOecctiO  DicisionDivsinOiin                                                                 Invetigaton
Trai,nin  Cacrsa                   13dgt                                                                                                          Op-Mr|                                                                                                             a      R
Divitm s iX 1  3ronto3 
Ego jpmeng aycs...........
Cn 
A t55 AFa l   ShOp a  Part              P              Cfftea O               A
SQur-.  lftstr ofPu Diviio           Mgrway   Diiso        Divitint             &iiso              Picsra                              |pAilos,       I                                                                                 E
D--amber I979                                                                                                                                                                                                                   v    t     0SsvS    | Adm.n,st ativLgvpmorld e Sik   19727 II






PHIIIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPRtOVEMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND COMMUNITY DEVE LOPMENT (MLGCD)
CURRENT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
F-77-~E 






PHILIPPINES                                                                              CHIART 3
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
RURAL ROADS PROGRAM
M;inister
M LGCD
Project
Research
and Development
Staff                            Pann                                                       'aca:c
Staff   T  Planning                                        M \    f Inanmcial and     Administrative                     Legal
Servicn                                                   Management                     Service Sevice                  rvice
Equipment and|
Materials Manage-
ment Staff                                                                                          I
Deputy Minister              Deputy Minister              Deputy Minister
Rural                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Local)         Comniycooperatives
Sseruvriacie    L                  Offices         |           Government)                 Development)                  Development)
|     Centers          l_
Water          Develop. Assist.               ~~~Rural Roads               Administrative                  Boalepo
|  Program                           Project                       Program.t.f::Government
I   Real PropertY                  Funding Agency                   uralRoas               MLGCD Technncan  Ass,Roance
tPTar Administration   L| Maison Staff   n                        a    Program D                      Consultants
|  Ad m onistrativ g                                                C Training  o
0 I isi.n     LJff                          Division        |
Main  nanearn                                           RurtI Road DnEign,uip,
and                 Planning, Programmecg,                Roads t.                                           ruction and ng
Programming                 Management and             Devleopment Program                Supenvision of          Procureme nt, Management, e
Monitoring                                     ES         Construction      Sand Monitoring                    X
Project Manager   ||           Provincial       |
Rural Roads           ,       Engineering 
ro Im-vemeCD   Project C   c        Consultants M
Decr-                                                                                                                                          Worl  un-2t
Provincial          j_          Engineers                     Technical 
Governor                           Office                     Assistance 
- --| s i | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Con sultants 
|   provincial           |       Provincial1
Developme nt                       Eng, neer 
Staff                    
Asst Prov. Engr.  |                                  st. Prov. Engr.
|    Technical Senvces) |Fl                               Services)
.1Lcation and                           
Design          |4                                 Equipment 
s  Dlvlsion  *                     F    ~~~~~~~~Division 
||Materias Testin 
,and Qual ity Conro
vote. 'Hi vy LUnes show units affected by the proposed Project.
Sourcr ai GCDC, Consultants and Mission
D ecr      9ici                                                                                                                                                    World Bank - 21430






PHILIPPINES                                                                          CHART 4
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980               1981               1982               1983               1984               1985
1 213   4       1   2   3  4    1 2 23    4    1   2 3114                1   2  3       4    1  2    3  4
1,IMPORTANT EARLY ACT IVITI]ES
A. LOAN EFFECTIVITY
B. SELECTION, APPOINTMENT AND NTP OF TECHNiCAL
ASSISTANCE CONSULTANTS TO MLGCD
C. SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF PEC'0dJ
0. SELECTION AND APFDINTMENT OF WORKSHOP
CONSULTANTS, NTP AND B3EGINNING OF WORK
II. IMPLEMENTATION
A. -EXECUTING AGENCY -MLGCD                                        D     l      ,idI
.Cons-teicti  and mp--hmen of Fu-I Radsw                    Dtie            Sousin a w ant                         narcin                      --a.rFrr
a.Provnc Of I Id0 IS Contrat Packagesi                                                      1            a               III     
lv   Provnc Of Cebu IB Contrac Packag0INIIIeIsIIIIVI                                                                        
n.  Pr-n- of AkIa- 14 Cootrot Pkack.e)
d    ProInce of Q-o  14 Contrat Packageslr A 
t. Provin fCe   -- Nf I 00 ue 4 Controot Paokage -
a  ..-Cntruto  and Inip--enrn                           Desi e, Datailn                   Eolnat.ion and Awards
Ot Wa`kShops and Labo,ratorie                                        Engi-acrig                                    I-i
b   Pro-r-in  of Road Ma,int--nc
Eqoipme_n, Unityv Vefror                                                                  Proaifddti  o
Com-oi-ai-t Eqo.pitmo acdlE.tg.
Soils-adl Material Laboratory                                                             and AwardI
Aplvaraa- ad EquipmenIt foi t-n
Si. Pr-u-nn                                                                                 fIF I                       - 
3.  Detti-aion Im,prov-et Pr-gra
a. Procreen of Technical Teols,
APO ...tut-ad ORfion Eqvip-at
f-r Provncil FOSs and PEOn.,
I,d for IuILGCD, inld.dIn  UtilitY
Vehicin'                                                                         Decer
b.  P-rocreen ot  Trainieg Facilties
and Equlp-eo for MLGCD, incldlogq
Andio-oi-a Aids and TreIigie  Sopplie                                                        DeIor
4.  Teoneloa A-coa-c
a.  -<.1e Ad i-cest- MLGCD 681024
Mo_tri Each1144r/m-                                                      -
b   Prooi.cial Adnis-r for PEOn ann P0S's - 9
for the Si. Pr-ievrn  24 Months 1216 m/mi,Pann.FaiiiyStdn,Sooi   nln   FnnilMngmn
S,ipe-i-intf Cotstrti-nl                           D             -iI  ~~d   g-   --,-!                 C,t.t.   .. i
(R..voes  n  Miteac                                                             Road Mainteanc, Eq. pwet Utilizat- atd M-1ieta    VY.Wokshop Mang-emen
fad Mainteneec  and Eonip-etl
5.  Trainig
a Conoalteet for Treinie Prog-a  Develpmen
and Initia ImIpl-Mtntti-n 148 er/mI                                  . 
b.  Tec hnical Assistnc to 1sstiutean.
o-she-job Tra,itig Progra  is Road
Mainta.an7a Ope..ati-n-i the Sic
PrOoi-c  I 72 n/nO)
n.  DOemas Adoancd Toohtical Trai,img
ItS0 Persons 1 Yea Eachi
d   SnudyT_"        I0 dParoa-s4dM.nrfrsEa-hl                                                                              
6.  Consuting S-mi-e
Detaile Esgi-cig and C-esrootio-si   Detailedl EnigrmerIg.
Superision CornllatM0 foIte-  (Al (I)                     EdiordFvntc
and (A) 121 lal A=mo                                      lIed   rgaiiair                     Con*r-ti-n Sup--iio                          Completi- Rapor
B.  EXECUTING AGENCY -MINISTRY OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS- -                                    1
1.  Coe'"ction and ImIprov-ratt If Nationa Roads 
14 Co-trere
San"os tu M-b.-ro, IncldingEvuaisodA rs
Port Spar Road and To-  Ceo-e                               Bidding,d
A-os Rod in Sen Joa. Fo  noe-                               Bdig                      -                                              -nn      -
2   MPH Central Soils ...d Material Lb-rt-ry                                                                     1.~tum
Feciiiie., lslnlEuimetIg  EI                                                                                                               Goe-at-e  erio
Machinery an d App-rto                                                                                                                    G-. Liin..-Pn -   -d
3.  Tace-ica Assisanc  awl Consuring Servce
a. Tehtinicl Advisor and Support to
MPH to Anisti Poj-ct Preparatio and
to lmprco- Net-ok Piarnig C.eabilirit-
of FF00 invid ding traffic survys and
a-ly cesIi
CosrcinSup-mi-o and M-nroigo                                                                                                    Completio  Rport
of Item (BIS     AOveCn-ta-r yare'i- -r
Deta,ied Ecgi-Nein  and C-neot-t-ealdEniersCtm~tnSvmso
S.opri--r of Iaw  El) /2 Ab-c                                                                       ~- - -
C.  EXECUTING AGENCY - MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION                                                           B4iddlie  aIdl Evaluation
Toc&nical Assisanc Advisor so MOT foe Trons port Advisry
Seroa  1124 in/m"  ON 
0    LAN DACQUISITIO
E.  LOAN CLOSING DATE - JUJNE 30, 1l85BSt
0/PECs.~ Proica  ngneigC-eiatWRiySao                                                                                                                                  World 6-k - 21374
/Mann -mal -ad neti-n tee invove   Actad dee for bidding. conrac awards -nd                                        R-csrucn-
arst the sew  for allI rods within aproic
April 1,980



I



IBRD 14858
4
LLJ
CL
",34
LU
ui
U.J
a- 0
of
CL
T        E
a-
IZ 'I    4J
+)
61
c:1
4Z
22
i F F   t                       2      t -;P. 9 2,            5         F.
21 E E                         I      T   F,                                                                                                                                          <1
t-     E I;  T   al F                                               -p     m                  L
IS                                                                                                                                                     PAO
n
'i    4 o
Hit
H -M                                                        10
F F E Z> T;  3 -r, Z            z 2       -2
E, z         t"  :& z ;l                                                     0
v 7  O






PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Provinces of Ilocos Sur, Camorines Norte,
Quezon, Iloilo  and  Cebu                                         T.soa-p-rveo                                      bha         Raks sf          for thn -atn
of th readers of Iht rnpot  do nh uhnph, so the pnh od th e Wo-tdRankan -d 
Proposed improvement-                                                                -bfhd--es sho.n  on thes togt status of any th5 t t rhany Wndopeet-n -r
Provinciol and Barangay -oods                                                      .. a.sp'ean-Ofs-htbosdart-s
J1     Proposed workshops
National roads                                                             KILOMETERS 0             20          40           60          80          100
--- Other roods
----.-------Railways                                                                        MILES 0          10        20        30        40       50        60
Provincial boundaries
-ir [LOCOS SUR                    -I      S135   NRT E         21'               1'                         122-                      1tom                 -                   23'
QUEZON AND                               Cles
07! __-  __ __                       r'.07Go           \CAMARINES NORTE
t.c_-ttD3;rc: ' ,07 <4'  -. _P'   Av4 N '8t'oo 5D
57t32 '          |        '                                0,                                  AQ  ERN                                               RtAe 4lyg|tssog,oT>-ns:2gSlog 4
7   x   ,/  gLlp:ent } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA AR11'ES( 
I ,,idt                                                                                                          i              0  e 1               t...--
-StO0PE%               nSt                                                     14'        -       ' T o          (Closes               n      tn          -  -      nons~. esnehnO
sr-u--  0'gon~ ,wet                                           Loon ,                  N,Qntes ,t~N SR A )Jy I,1 Fl 3             on,
nl (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,b~ ~~~~~~~~~~AIG Esi                          Z                                              N ': '                J                      
0slut---                '  he0
X~~~~~to   _t' e Boah  knSr                  o          i <Al IN CfA_r4f  ;f  -  08#
zn:    0 as-----    y---N ortesnn A                                            - 1                5tt PLttoe -AlN0nrerntYS  J ialf 553       ,o'nv,A)0YAO
0/47      ---  -               ont7e N                                                                                               9.       Se Ntn n
4:~~~~~~~NO                      /8NGE                                                            S  UrA N' 5(EA;0 < t '^           0        opa    L[t                 0
~~~ Ctndtn  Os too    N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~BNTY   15t
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 IS0 tA NV T,F                                       I' O U4  A Al                    So Enqu ,4 X0\f.+ 0 v._
A                -        b      S  R beteittet                - ., -                                                         is 040
K.11'                  W24                                                   NOUQ,                          tt,-t..tS_
122'L'   I                                                                                                                                          A 123W 1239 - _2; 3' 12    2O
P        YRO              I                                                                                             r  t-'y
tsp            ~~~~~-0 VR/5-FAtV                                                                 S            Et bye       >htnt P
Letetno                  te~~~~~~Ns ..  -i
Antnsjt  nyu,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ .                 Renters>~~~~Dpd, ~ .61
heetstt ~~~~~~~~~  35 th                                                                             /       Rt6t~~~~~~~~~~~
ANTIOAKL   Ketauis./'ton                                                    ''A >(.
N~~~~~~~7  / uts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Rrnnnfnine  IrebeeNtrt  rotr;k    /Pe.  
'u        I~,s
L~ ... N4~                                                                    ~/ >-> 
B  boa~~~~~~~~o'64C t~~~~~~~~~~~4%ts4nv~~~~~~~~~~~>pt                             thEreto~~~~~~~~~~~
/   PN-'Y          ILAN13MoOnII






_~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      ~~~~~~ a ( lo 'z  __,b 
-C  CH                        :       As  i     
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~
0  (~~~~~~~
CC  DENTAL    MIND O   O  
ti       <                  *                                                       C  0'  
ORETA  IL OR
|  / 7 ,a ..I
0 ,   '~~~'   'i;0   1  0  00000;$0  2  iV  0  30   O                  "                                 ,              f ,.i(10   fj'N  -
o~~~~~Z~
<~~~~~~~~~~~~ >L                                                             0
CLU
0  -  t~~~~0 
>00
-o    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~    ~0t 3JT C-0 
z.            ~        0S
CY- ~   -00 



