Document of                   FL     C
The World Bank                      FILE Copt
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 802-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 5, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pesos (P)
US$1.00        = P 7.40 (January 1980)
P 1.00      = US$0.135
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                   British/US equivalent
1 meter (m)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)   = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I kilogran (kg)               = 2.205 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m ton)          = 1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
= 0.98 British long tons (Ig ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -  Asian Development Bank
BBR        -  Bureau of Barangay Roads of the MPH
BCM        -  Bureau of Construction and Maintenance of the MPH
BOC        -  Bureau of Customs
ERR        -  Economic rate of return
MLGCD      -  Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
MOTC       -  Ministry of Transportation and Communications
MPH        -  Ministry of Public Highways
NEDA       -  National Economic and Development Authority
PDS        -  Provincial Development Staff
PEO        -  Provincial Engineer's Office
PDAP       -  Provincial Development Assistance Program
PPDO/MPH   -  Planning and Project Development Office of the MPH
SMQCS      -  Soils and Materials Quality Control Service of the MPH
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $62 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
8.25% p.a.
Project
Description:  The objectives of the project are to:  (a) improve high
priority rural roads through reconstruction, restoration and
improved maintenance; and (b) strengthen planning, adminis-
trative, engineering and maintenance capabilities of provin-
cial highway authorities under the overall direction of the
Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
(MLGCD). The Project includes: (a) construction and
improvement of about 730 km of provincial and barangay roads
in six provinces; (b) a rural road maintenance program
composed of construction or improvement of workshops and
procurement of maintenance equipment, machinery and tools; (c)
improvement of about 150 km of national and provincial roads
in Occidental Mindoro and provision of a new central soils and
materials laboratory for the Ministry of Public Highways
(MPH); (d) technical assistance to MLGCD, the six project
provinces, the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA), and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
(MOTC); and (e) consultancy services to MLGCD, MPH and the
project provinces for design and construction supervision of
project roads and soils and materials laboratories and for
preparation of a future rural roads improvement project. The
project roads would provide rural farmers with opportunities
to market their products, and to improve the quantity and
quality of their yields through prompt, low-cost delivery of
agricultural inputs. In Occidental Mindoro, improvement of
national and provincial roads would give access to an area
hitherto only approachable by sea. The population served by
the project roads generally have per capita incomes below the
absolute poverty level for the Philippines. Because of the
new approach being taken by the project in decentralizing
responsibility and authority, the main risks are associated
with the performance of MLGCD and the provinces in imple-
menting the project. The project's technical assistance
components and action programs agreed with the Government
should help minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                              Local  Foreign  Total
Costs:/l                                              ---- ($ million) ----
Construction and improvement
of rural roads                    21.7      7.6    29.3
Provincial workshops and
laboratories                       0.5      0.3     0.8
Procurement of equipment              0.3     8.7     9.0
Technical assistance and con-
sulting services for MLGCD
and provinces                      2.1      5.3     7.4
Construction and improvement
of national and provincial
roads in Occidental Mindoro       10.9      6.0    16.9
Construction of new central
soils and materials
laboratory for MPH                  1.0     1.5     2.5
Technical assistance and consul-
ting services for MPH, MOTC/
NEDA and for project preparation  0.2       2.5     2.7
Total Base Costs             36.7    31.9    68.6
Physical contingencies                3.7     3.2     6.9
Price contingencies                  12.5     8.4    20.9
Land acquisition                      8.5      -      8,5
Total Project Costs          61.4    43.5   104,9
Financing
Plan:           Proposed Bank loan                    18.5    43.5    62.0
Government funds                     42.9     -      42.9
Total                          61.4    43.5   104.9
Estimated          Bank Fiscal Year        1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Disbursements:                           ------------ ($ million) -----------
Annual                   0.5      9.5    18.5    23.0    10.5
Cumulative               0.5    10.0    28.5    51.5    62.0
Rate of Return:   28%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2896-PH, dated April 30, 1980
/I Excluding customs duties and taxes for direct purchases from which MPH
and MLGCD are effectively exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $62 million to
help finance a Rural Roads Improvement Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission visited the
Philippines in May/June 1979, and its report, entitled "The Philippines:
Domestic and External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16,
1979.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at an
annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management the
rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of devel-
opment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions
and income classes. W{hile overall agricultural growth was reasonably
satisfactory, repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of
productive employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion
of the labor force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public
expenditure for necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor
export performance combined with heavy import-dependence of domestic
industry led to chronic weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there were significant improvements in economic
management. Public revenues have been increased substantially, public
sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5.5% in
1976-78. Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that of the
President's Report for the Third Urban Development Project, distributed
under R80-40, and approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980.



-2-
investment to GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a
consequence of higher levels of investment, the construction industry boomed.
Agriculture has performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and
higher yielding rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some
improvements in supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote
nontraditional manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other
hand, the performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to
the domestic market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has
been inadequate in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive
employment opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been
acceleration in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of the country's terms of trade since
1975, stemming from the increase in oil prices, acceleration of
international inflation and depressed prices for some major Philippine
commodity exports. As a result, real national income has been growing more
slowly than real national product, and, with the higher level of investment,
the dependence of the economy on foreign savings has increased. Although
the terms of trade have recently stabilized, the current account deficit is
still about 6% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and nolicies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment
opportunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities,
greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance
of payments and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan
includes growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In
general, the Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the
Government in recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's
assessment of priorities, although Plan projections for overall growth,
investment, manufacturing output, and exports are somewhat higher than Bank
staff estimates.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been about 5%, which by international standards is quite good. However,
variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the spread of
irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production has
increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1978. With the completion of
large irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice



-3-
self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally
adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly
corn, are still under development, and rainfed agricultural a as have a
high incidence of poverty. Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively
low because of a large number of overaged trees, but a major replanting
program is scheduled for the early 1980s when a sufficient number of high
yielding variety seedlings will become available. Increasing pressure of
population on the land and inadequately controlled logging have led to soil
erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The Plan calls for a major
reforestation effort, but this will require substantial upgrading of
Government administrative capabilities in this area, development of new hill
cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, and health in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also
instituted in 1972 which provides for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice
and corn land in excess of seven hectares and enforcement of leasehold
instead of sharecropping on remaining tenanted holdings. As of July 1979,
about 75% of land transfer beneficiaries had received Certificates of Land
Transfer (the initial step in the process of establishing their claim to the
land), and about 18% had completed all steps necessary to begin amortization
payments. About 67% of leasehold beneficiaries cultivating rice and corn
land had established written contracts with their landlords.
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most manu-
facturing plants have located in the Greater Manila area. Reforms of tariffs
and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with development
objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including various arrangements
to permit firms in selected export industries to import needed goods free of
duty. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities, and receipts
from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from just over $100 mil-
lion in 1972 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 1979.
Population Growth, Employment and Income Distribution
11.       The 1979 population is estimated at 46.7 million.  The population
growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period 1960-70 to 2.8% in the
intercensal period 1970-75. The Philippines has an active family planning



program registering approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year. Although
the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced
the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural areas, the estimated
proportion of married women of reproductive age practicing family planning
increased from 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. However, by East Asian
standards, this index is still relatively low.
12.       Employment increased by about 4.6% anually during 1973-78, a con-
siderable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and in
recent years has kept pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With
the exhaustion of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the
exploitation of the most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to
provide employment for about one half of the new entrants to the labor force
in the next decade. Employment in manufacturing essentially stagnated
during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually during 1975-77, resulting in part
from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However, because
manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and services
still continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the increase in total employment.
13.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously
wealthy. Due to a structural improvement in agriculture's terms of trade,
the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages
following the devaluation in 1970, and subsequent acceleration of interna-
tional inflation and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975, the
ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from 0.48
in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is
widespread.
Public Finance
14.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share
of national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing
countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only
12% of GNP; public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP; and tax
revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by
general administration and social services, particularly education. This
situation had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in
raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector.
Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct this
situation and has raised both the overall level of expenditures and the
shares going to economic services and public investment. By 1978, government
expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment equaled
about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion of public expenditures has brought about
badly needed improvement in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power and irrigation, as well as the development of more effective
programs in the field of urban development, health and family planning.



15.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably
and efficiently. The overall tax ratio was raised by more than two percenr-
age points between 1975 and 1978 through a series of new tax measures and
vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
However, the recent rapid growth of the public investment program has made
the Government's budget position quite tight in 1978-79. Continuation of a
strong revenue effort, both by the Government and the government corporatio:s-,
is necessary to allow for further expansion in infrastructure and social
services.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
16.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total invest-
ment, with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase
the efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and
investors, the Government has made significant improvements in financial
policy. Organized banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest
rates have been realigned to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and
to reduce the sprea.' between borrowing and lending rates.  Further reforms are
required to increas] the availability of long-term domestic currency
resources. Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the
credit-short agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of
medium- and small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery rates
have been initially experienced by all government financial institutions and
credit programs. The Government has taken a number of steps to improve
collections; continued efforts in this direction are necessary to improve
financial discipline and ensure an adequate flow of credit to the productive
sectors without burdening the public finances.
17.       In response to the large balance of payments deficit in 1975 (see
para. 5 above), the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export
growth both to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute
terms, while letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the
debt service payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
External Trade and Capital Flows
18.       The current account initially behaved as anticipated - averaging
$1.0 billion per year but declining from 6.2% of GNP in 1976 to 4.1% of GNP
in 1977. However, since then actual developments have deviated from the
original scenario. First, the volume of commodity exports, particularly
sugar, has increased less rapidly than expected. Second, real import growth
has, on the other hand, been more rapid than anticipated, partly as a result
of a recovery of private investment and partly because of speculative



importing in 1979. Third, although prices for some commodity exports
(coconut products, copper) have increased substantially, the terms of trade
in 1979 were only marginally better than in 1976-77 due to the increased
price of petroleum imports and the acceleration of inflation in the OECD
countries which supply most of the Philippines' non-oil imports. The
combined effect has been a widening of the current account deficit to an
estimated $1.8 billion in 1979.
19.       In order to maintain growth and investment rates in the face of
the worsened external environment, major structural adjustment is necessary
to improve the balance of payments position. Initial steps have already
been taken with respect to export promotion, and major changes in trade,
industrial and financial policies are currently under consideration.
However, such adjustments will require a number of years to effect the
needed structural improvement in the balance of payments. The medium-term
outlook, therefore, is for high current account deficits although falling as a
percentage of GNP from 6% in 1980 to 4.7% in 1982.
20.       Net capital inflows doubled from the 1975 level of $580 million to
an estimated $1.2 billion in 1979, leaving an overall deficit of about $500
million. Most of the capital inflows came from medium- and long-term loans,
with about 40% from official sources. In 1980, a net capital inflow of at
least $1.8 billion will be required, increasing to $2.2 billion per year in
1981 and 1982. The ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and
nonfactor services is expected to rise from an estimated 20% in 1979 to an
average level of 22% during the 1980-82 period, and to decline thereafter.
21.       In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within
reasonable limits, the Government sought commitments of official assistance
of at least $1.0 billion in 1980 at the last meeting of the Consultative
Group for the Philippines, held in Washington, D.C. in December 1979. The
Group endorsed the Government's request.
22.       Satisfactory progress has been made in domestic resource mobiliza-
tion (paras. 15-18). However, because of the increase in the Philippines'
external financing requirements arising from the deterioration in the terms of
trade, and the fact that many of the projects planned for official assistance
have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource transfer can be
achieved only with some financing of local costs of projects, and/or through
nonproject lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
23.       As of March 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 65 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,181.9 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Third Urban Development Project (R80-40)
approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1980.



-7-
totalled $93.7 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is currently about 13% and its share in total debt service is
about 6%. These ratios are expected to be about 23% and 16%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
24.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assis-
tance in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future
growth of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic
infrastructure has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect
due to low levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's
main thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private
development finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting
the needs of small and medium industries.
25.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates.
26.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricultural
and rural development will account for the largest part of future lending
with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides for
several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through Loan 1626-PH (National Exten-
sion Project) and for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas,
where there is substantial rural poverty, through Loan 1815-PH (Rainfed Agri-
culture (Iloilo) Project). Increased assistance will also be provided for
integrated rural development projects which will support the Government's
objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income. Substantial
assistance will also continue to be given to industry with considerable



- 8 -
attention given to policy reform and to expanding the development of
labor-intensive, small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan
Manila area. A program loan to support major adjustments in industrial and
trade policies has been appraised. The share of lending for social sector
projects is expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of
greater emphasis on construction of urban water supply and sewerage systems
and further assistance for slum upgrading and low-cost sites and services
projects. The Bank Group will continue to provide support for improving the
quality of education and for expanding the Government's population program
in rural areas. While the Bank Group will continue to provide support for
transportation and power infrastructure needed to support the Philippine
development effort, the share of Bank lending for these sectors will decline
somewhat in the years ahead primarily because alternative sources of
financing are available to finance a large part of the power generation
program.
27.       This is the eighth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for watershed management and
livestock/fisheries projects have been appraised and are scheduled for Board
presentation in the next one or two months.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       In the last decade, the Philippines made significant advances in
the transport field, far exceeding progress in any previous decade both in
terms of funds expended and results achieved. Annual public transport
expenditures, representing about one-third of total public investment
outlays, increased rapidly from P 282 million ($38 million) in 1968 to
P 2.9 billion ($392 million) in 1978, with highways absorbing about 74% of
the transport total. Of the remainder, airports received about 10%, ports
9%, and railways, 7%. These transport expenditures were necessary to expand
and improve the hitherto neglected transport system to meet the increased
demand for movement of goods and passengers resulting from higher income and
increased population and industrial and agricultural production. As a
result of the increased investment in highways, the road network expanded
rapidly and in 1979 encompassed about 152,800 km. For the first time it
provided access to the important population centers in the interior of the
two largest islands, Luzon and Mindanao, which together comprise about 70%
of the country's land area and three-quarters of its 46.7 million
population.
29.       The preliminary 1980-83 projections for commodity flows and
passenger traffic indicate a larger increase in inter-island movements of
freight and passengers between the food-deficit areas of Luzon and the
agricultural surplus areas of Mindanao than for road transport within the
major islands. Accordingly, the Government plans to increase the share of



ports and airports in the 1980-83 transport infrastructure investment
program: 19% for ports, 14% for airports, 9% for railways, and 58% for
highways.  No significant public funds are allocated for shipping invest,-,>
since it is largely financed by the private sector. During 1980-83,
transport's share of public investment is expected to decrease from the
previous level of 30% to about 20% of the total public infrastructure
program because of increasing shares allocated to the power sector to meet
the country's energy requirements.
30.       Estimates based on preliminary data indicate that road transport
is the dominant mode, accounting for nearly 80% of passenger and more than.
half of total freight traffic. Privately operated inter-island shipping,
serving a population scattered over hundreds of islands, appears to account
for nearly all of the remaining freight traffic since relatively short
inland distances and low traffic volumes have limited railways to a small
fraction of total freight traffic. Air cargo transport is insignificant bui
domestic air travel is growing rapidly.
Transport Planning and Coordination
31.       In addition to increased transport expenditures and system expansion
in the 1970s, the Government has taken important steps to improve the organi-
zational structure of the planning and administrative units responsible for
transport. These urits have been substantially restructured in the major
Government reorgani2ition, initiated in 1972, which has resulted in a
strengthening of the planning, implementation and operational capabilities
of the various transport agencies, and in better coordination of planning
responsibilities.
32.       Transport planning is currently the joint responsibility of the
National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) and the Ministry of
Transportation and Communications (MOTC). As a central planning agency,
NEDA has overall responsibility for public capital investments through its
Infrastructure Program and Project Office, which reviews and approves
investments proposed by each transport operating agency. MOTC, which becam-n
operational in July 1979 with a small staff, is not yet fully equipped to
discharge the functions of intermodal transport planning, coordination and
regulation. The Ministry is still evolving and is in the process of
expanding its staff and preparing to absorb the transport planning functiol.s
now discharged largely by NEDA. To strengthen the capability of MOTC, the
project includes funds to finance advisory services which will complement
the technical assistance provided under Loan 1272-T/1282-PH (Manila tUrban
Development Project) for a National Transport System Study in preparation
for a ten-year transporl: investment program. The study, undertaken jointly
by MOTC and NEDA, is scheduled for completion in late 1981.



- 10 -
Transport Strategies
33.       Transport improvement programs are designed to promote the Govern-
ment's rural development objectives of (i) increasing food production and
rural incomes; (ii) promoting regional balance in socioeconomic development
by establishing growth poles away from Metropolitan Manila; and (iii)
expanding industrial production for domestic and foreign markets. The
Government strategy, aimed at increasing transport capacity so that it can
meet the growing demand, has both investment and operational dimensions.
34.       The investment strategy is aimed at:  (i) undertaking transport
sector and program reviews to determine their consistency with sectoral and
overall development objectives such as agricultural and industrial develop-
ment, financial resource availability, intermodal efficiency, and agency
implementation capabilities; and (ii) strengthening the analytical capacity
of transport agencies both at the center and at the regional and provincial
levels so that major planning responsibilities can be delegated to regions
and provinces. The objective is the assembly of relevant data and informa-
tion by local planners to identify specific transport problems, examine
alternatives in terms of costs and benefits and rank priorities on the basis
of local knowledge.
35.       The operational strategy is being directed at improving the effi-
ciency of existing facilities and administrative procedures. Greater atten-
tion is being focused on the maintenance of roads and ports, and on a
restructuring of the management staffing and procedureo for port operations
and transport regulations. These operational improvements will make
existing and future investments more productive and will yield much higher
returns than investments for new projects.
Highway Subsector
36.       The public highway network (as of 1979) consists of about 152,800 km
of roads: 22,900 km of national, 29,000 km of provincial, 13,400 km of city
and municipal and 87,500 km of barangay (village) roads. National roads
include about 122 km of toll expressways with grade separated intersections
north and south of Manila. Except for these toll roads, road classification
is often arbitrary as it is not always based on function. In remote areas
such as northeastern Luzon and many parts of Mindanao, national roads serve
as penetration roads providing the only access to the villages. In many
parts of the country, both provincial and barangay roads are characterized
by a low volume of traffic and serve limited influence areas, mainly
providing the means for moving agricutural inputs and outputs and connecting
rural communities with administrative and market centers.
37.       Up to 1969, little had been done to improve the roads, and only
about 15% of the national roads were paved. Even now only 41% of the national
highways and 13% of the provincial road systems are paved (compared with about



- 11 -
95% and 20%, respectively, in Thailand); the rest are either gravel or
unsurfaced. Since 1970, the Government has made a substantial effort to
improve and develop the road system both through an expanded allocation
of domestic budgetary resources and through foreign assistance mainly from
Japan, the United States, IBRD and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). During
the last six years, more than 13,000 km of roads have been constructed or
improved to meet the rapidly growing demand for road transport. However,
much work needs to be done to ensure that adequate maintenance is provided
for the rapidly expanding highway network.
38.       Until recently, data on highway traffic growth were not collected
and analyzed on a regular basis. However, judging from increases in the motor
vehicle fleet and the volume of gasoline consumed by road transport, traffic
growth between 1966 and 1979 was substantial. Fuel consumption during this
period is estimated to have increased by 10% p.a. During 1973-75, traffic
growth was slowed by an increase in oil prices. Beginning in 1976, however,
despite further increases in fuel prices, traffic began to increase more
rapidly. Under the Third and Fourth Highway projects (Loans 1353-PH and
1661-PH), the Government began to implement a system for collecting and
recording traffic counts.
39.       During the 1967-78 period, total highway expenditures, including
administration and maintenance, increased approximately ten times in real
terms. Construction averaged 60-65% of total expenditures, maintenance
about 25%, with administrative expenditures accounting for the remainder.
In 1978, the Government's total highway expenditures amounted to P 2.9 bil-
lion, of which about P 1 billion were for routine and periodic maintenance
and P 1.6 billion for construction, with the balance devoted to administra-
tive costs. The amount allocated for maintenance would have been adequate if
more efficiently used. Highway revenues are obtained from specific road
user charges which include motor vehicle fees, licenses, tolls and a common
carrier tax on their gross receipts. Between 1967 and 1978, revenues from
these charges increased tenfold. In 1978, revenues from road user charges
(excluding import duties) amounted to P 2.2 billion. In the same year,
revenues from import duties and taxes were a little over P 1 billion, of
which P 136 million should be considered as road user taxes since this
amount represents an import surcharge on motor vehicles above the normal
rate levied on other consumer goods and machinery. Including this
surcharge, revenue from all road user charges fully covered total
maintenance and administrative expenditures and 70% of the construction
costs (63% without the surcharge).
40.       The various road user taxes are collected by different government
agencies: the Bureau of Customs (BOC), the Bureau of Indirect Tax of the
Ministry of Finance and the Bureau of Land Transport of M4OTC, each attempting
to optimize its revenue from these taxes. No reliable data exist on the
short-run marginal cost of highway use or on user charges by vehicle type.
Without these data it is difficult to determine how variously sized vehicles
are contributing towards covering their respective marginal costs through



- 12 -
user taxes, and thus the extent of any subsidization or cross-subsidization
among different vehicle types. However, judging from the low level of
diesel fuel taxes, it can be assumed that heavy vehicles (10-12 tons), which
normally use diesel fuel and which incur relatively more damage to the
roads, may not cover their short-run marginal cost. In order to understand
the present situation better, the Government is assembling relevant data
with which to analyze the road user tax structure and to formulate a
comprehensive transport pricing policy.
Basic Organizational Responsibilities for Roads
41.       Responsibility for planning, design, construction and maintenance
of the road transport system is divided, with some overlap, among the
central government agencies and local authorities. The Ministry of Public
Highways (MPH), the recognized technical highway authority, is responsible
for planning, constructing and maintaining the national highway system, and
providing technical assistance to other agencies of Government. Provincial
Engineering Offices (PEOs) are directly responsible for planning, construct-
ing and maintaining the provincial highway system, with development guidance
from the Ministry of Local Government and Community Development (MLGCD). In
addition, both MPH and MLGCD have units handling barangay road assistance
programs. The unit in MPH is large, with more than 100 employees at its
headquarters in Manila. The unit in MLGCD is relatively new with fewer
employees. Basic objectives of the two ministries are consistent but
definitions of authority and responsibility differ.
42.       The major objective of MLGCD is to assist local government
agencies in developing their own capabilities, with the local roads program
of MLGCD as a major step towards realizing this objective. The project
includes a technical assistance program to improve the capability of MLGCD
and the provinces so that they can effectively discharge their functions.
43.       As part of the process of rationalizing the institutional respon-
sibilities for rural roads construction and maintenance, several memoranda
of agreement are being drawn up between MLGCD, MPH, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of the Budget and the Provinces. Under these agreements, MPH
will be responsible for setting standards and, for a transitional period, will
provide technical assistance to MLGCD and the provinces. MLGCD will monitor
physical implementation and expenditures by the provinces and will provide
technical assistance to the provinces. The provinces will have full authority
to plan, program and execute the maintenance of all rural roads (except for
city roads). The objective of this move is to gradually hand over to local
agencies responsibilities for planning, construction and maintenance of all
local roads, with MLGCD performing a coordinating and monitoring function.
Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank on satisfactory Memoranda of
Agreement between (a) MPH and MLGCD, defining responsibility for the



- 13 -
construction and improvement of rural roads,I1 and (b) MLGCD, the Ministry
of Finance and the Ministry of Budget, defining budgetary and administrative
responsibility for local roads improvement, has been made a condition 'f
effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances W
obtained that the Memoranda of Agreement would be signed by December 31,
1980, and would be carried out in accordance with timetables and programs
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cooperation With Other Aid Donors
44.       During project preparation, extensive discussions took place w-th
officials of USAID and ADB with a view towards coordinating the work of
those lending agencies involved in rural roads in the Philippines. Although
ADB's operations thus far have exclusively used MPH as the implementing
agency, USAID has long been involved in developing local government
capabilities through its Provincial Development Assistance Program (PDAP).
Under this program USAID provides technical assistance to MLGCD and
participating provinces and reimburses up to 75% of the capital costs for
satisfactorily completed road projects.  Design and construction are carri,:-
out by force account or contract through local government engineering offic(-
with coordination and monitoring by MLGCD.
45.       The proposed project complements the work of USAID.  Officials CA
both USAID and ADB -xpressed an interest in following procedures similar r;^
those adopted for tie project on:  (a) the project evaluatior. methodolp- 
(b) implementation of construction work by contract; and (c) the reimbuin-
ment scheme designed to suit the varying fiscal capabilities of the provincaC
rather than the uniform 75% reimbursement.  In addition, ADB is considerig,
an extension of the proposed technical assistance program to MLGCD under the
same terms of reference when the two-year term of the advisors financed under
the proposed project expires. This would take place under an ADB-financrcl
technical assistance program of transport advisory services to be provided
to a number of provinces.
Bank Lending for the Highway Sector
46.       The strategy of Bank lending for highways has been to:  (a) in-
crease the capacity of the existing infrastructure; (b) improve project
preparation and implementation capabilities; and (c) develop an instituti->; 
framework to carry out proper maintenance. Continued assistance in attair.-
ing these objectives will be needed, primarily focusing on maintenance and
institutional development. A further objective of the Bank is to expand its
participation in improving the capability of farm-to-market and feeder roads
to accommodate motorized traffic and thus aid increased food production.
Using rural roads planning and construction as a vehicle, the Bank will
/1 Refers to provincial, municipal and barangay (village) roads. The
Memoranda of Agreement concerning maintenance of these roads have
already been concluded and signed and are satisfactory to the Bank.



- 14 -
assist the Government in developing operational capability and improving
financial management in the provinces.
47.       The Bank has made four loans totalling $271 million /1 for the
improvement of important sections of national highways and connecting
secondary roads, and for a countrywide maintenance organization, including
improvement of workshops and procurement of maintenance equipment, parts and
workshop machinery. The four highway projects have also helped to develop
the Philippine contracting industry and local consulting firms which gained
valuable experience through their association with foreign consultants on
the design of the project roads. The First Highway Project is fully dis-
bursed, although the small portion deleted from the original construction
contract due to civil disorders in the area has not yet been completed by
the Government. The Second Highway Project is 99% complete. Problems in
implementation, largely due to a shortage of local funds and unsatisfactory
performance by some contractors, were overcome but resulted in a delay of
about 3 years in project completion. The Third Highway Project is about
30% complete. There were some problems in implementation of its maintenance
component, but the Government is now making satisfactory progress. Delays
have also been experienced in construction of the project roads, mainly due
to the use of unsatisfactory prequalification procedures. To avoid repe-
tition of this problem, the Government has agreed to adopt improved
prequalification procedures for this project similar to those being used for
the Fourth Highway Proect (para. 69). Implementation of the Fourth Highway
Project, using improved prequalification procedures, began slowly in the
latter half of 1979 but there are no major problems. The Bank's future
lending program for transport includes a fifth highway loan, the components
of which will be defined on the basis of experience with ongoing projects.
48.       The Project Performance Audit Report on the First Highway Project
(Loan 731-PH) concluded that problems during implementation were largely
caused by civil disturbances in the project area. Despite such problems,
the project's re-estimated economic return was satisfactory. The transfer
of responsibility for engineering and construction supervision from
expatriate consultants to local firms and the rapid increase in local staff
employed provided a good example of the possibilities in this field.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
49.       The objectives of the project are to improve high priority rural
roads through reconstruction, restoration and improved maintenance; to
upgrade procedures and operations of MLGCD; and to strengthen planning,
/1 Loans 731-PH ($8.0 million), 950-PH ($68.0 million), 1353-PH ($95.0 mil-
lion), and 1661-PH ($100.0 million).



- 15 -
administrative, engineering and maintenance capabilities of provincial highway
authorities. In formulating the project, high priority provincial roads
were included for upgrading, since without this intermediary connective
system, improvement of barangay (village) roads feeding into s.e provincial
network would be meaningless. Also included are low-cost, lightly travelled
provincial and barangay roads which provide the only access to market and
administrative centers and the only means of moving agricultural inputs and
outputs in many rural communities within the influence areas of the project
roads.
50.       The Bank has previously financed rural roads in the Philippines as
a component of irrigation, multipurpose and rural development projects.
Implementation of the road component of these projects has been carried out
by the central government agencies, largely through MPH, whose major
responsibility is construction and maintenance of national roads. This
approach focused on the immediate need to improve physical facilities, but
did not directly address the problem of strengthening local institutions to
implement the Government's decentralization policy.
51.       The proposed project represents the first Bank Group effort aimed at
directly assisting the provincial governments in carrying out road improvement
and maintenance programs under the overall guidance of MLGCD. This effort
would support the Government's policy of expanding local government respon-
sibility for the planning, construction and maintenance of all rural
roads and improving the capability of MLGCD so that it can effectively
monitor and supervise, in the near term, the work undertaken by the
provinces as well as train provincial staff. Over the longer term, trained
provincial staff would extend technical assistance to the municipalities and
barangays to upgrade their planning and maintenance capability.
Background
52.       Six provinces, representing a cross section of the 73 provinces in
the Philippines, were selected for inclusion in the project. These six
provinces - Iloilo, Cebu, Quezon, Aklan, Camarines Norte and Ilocos Sur -
represent differing conditions throughout the country and vary in their
fiscal and implementation capability, with Iloilo and Cebu being relatively
better off and further advanced than Quezon and Aklan, while Ilocos Sur and
Camarines Norte are among the poorest and least developed provinces. A
project in these provinces would provide useful experience that could be
applied to all types of provinces in future rural road improvement programs.
53.       In addition to the rural roads, the project also includes about
150 km of national and provincial roads linking Mamburao and San Jose in
Occidental Mindoro, to be executed by MPH. These roads were originally
proposed for inclusion in a second integrated rural development project in
Mindoro, but the Government and the Bank subsequently decided to finance the
essential elements, irrigation and roads, in separate project loans. The



- 16 -
irrigation component is being financed under Loan 1809-PH (Medium-Scale Irri-
gation). The road component, which is essential for the success of the
irrigation project, is proposed for inclusion in this project.
54.       While the project constitutes only a beginning in terms of meeting
the very large physical and institutional needs of the country, it would
provide the foundation for the long-term development of an effective, locally
based program for rural roads. This project is also one of a series now being
developed by the Government and the Bank to increase the capacity of local
governments to provide and maintain the basic infrastructure needed to
encourage rural development in the Philippines. The project was prepared by
MLGCD assisted by consultants and the Project and Program Development Office
(PPDO) of MPH. Appraisal of the Project was completed in November 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1980 with a Government team led
by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United
States. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2896-PH), dated April 30, 1980, is
being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are contained in
Annex III of this report.
Project Description
55.       The project would provide for:
(a) construction and improvement of about 730 km of provincial and
barangay roads in the provinces of Iloilo, Cebu, Aklan, Quezon,
Camarines Norte and Ilocos Sur;
(b) reconstruction and improvement of about 90 km of national and 60 km
of provincial roads in the province of Occidental Mindoro;
(c) construction and improvement of provincial workshops and quality
control laboratories and provision of new facilities for the MPH
Soils and Materials Quality Control Service (SMQCS);
(d) procurement of road maintenance equipment for the six project
provinces, including spare parts, tools, machinery and apparatus
for provincial workshops and quality control laboratories;
(e) procurement of tools, engineering, training and other equipment
for MLGCD and the six project provinces;
(f) technical assistance to: (i) MLGCD to improve contract adminis-
tration and monitoring and to train officers who in turn would
train provincial staff; (ii) the six project provinces to help
improve engineering, quality control, construction supervision,
and maintenance; and (iii) MLGCD and MPH for program and project
preparation and financial management; (iv) MOTC/NEDA to assist in
the continuation of transport advisory services; and



- 17 -
(g) consulting services for detailed engineering and construction
supervision of (a), (b), and (c) above, and for feasibility studies
to prepare a future rural roads improvement project.
Construction and Improvement of Roads
56.       The project roads are impassable for part of the year with
extremely rough and narrow surfaces. Inadequate drainage, poor original
design and construction, and little or no maintenance have caused rapid
deterioration of surfaces even under very light traffic. These roads would
be restored or upgraded to all-weather, all-year standards, largely following
existing alignments. Where necesary, bridges would be strengthened or
replaced and embankments would be raised to reduce damage during floods.
Some of the more heavily traveled sections would have bituminous stabilized
surfaces.
57.       About 200 km of barangay roads in Iloilo are included in the
project to support the Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo) Project (Ln. 1815-PH).
Of this total, approximately 50 km would be identified for improvement using
barangay labor, a minimum of equipment and a labor-intensive construction
system. Labor-intensive methods are also expected to be applied in carrying
out maintenance operations: clearing ditches, controlling vegetation, and
transporting and spreading materials. In order to help improve efficiency
and identify new areas where improved labor-based methods could be applied,
the provinces would be assisted by technical assistance advisors. The Bank
is expected to prov;de additional assistance during project supervision in
determining means, methods, and practices of increasing the labor/capital
ratio wherever appropriate in road construction and maintenance works.
Institutional Objectives
(i) Technical Assistance to NLGCD
58.      IMLGCD has the major responsibility for providing guidance and for
monitoring development activities undertaken by the local authorities.
With the increasing emphasis placed on the Government's decentralization
policy, MLGCD could emerge as the key institution to help implement this
objective in the field of rural road improvement and maintenance. Presently,
MLGCD lacks the resources and the capability to properly coordinate, supervise
or monitor an expanded rural roads program due to inadequate facilities and ai
shortage of competent staff. MLGCD needs staff in the various disciplines
necessary to undertake contract administration, monitor construction and
maintenance activities of local governments, prepare a national local road
improvement program, advise on financial management and train provincial
staff. The technical assistance component of the project was thus tailored tr
the needs of MLGCD to enable its various units to assume greater
responsibility.



- 18 -
59.       Although major improvements in MLGCD are required, a beginning has
been made with a change in organizational structure consolidating functions
to avoid duplication. It now has the skeleton of the staff necessary to
expand, organize and improve its operations. The experts to be financed
under the project would initially assist the Ministry staff in performing
their duties, gradually taking a less active role so that the Ministry staff
would carry on their operations independently, with the experts performing
only an advisory role.  Assurances were obtained that the Government would
carry out organizational and management changes in MLGCD and the provinces
in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
(ii) Technical Assistance to Six Provinces
60.       While MLGCD would provide supervisory and monitoring functions,
the actual work would be carried out by the provinces. The six project
provinces, however, generally lack the ability to plan and maintain roads
properly and to manage financial resources. The proposed technical assist-
ance program was designed to upgrade the provincial capabilities to design,
improve and maintain roads on the basis of local knowledge of area resources
and needs.
61.       The long-term objective of the Government is to consolidate the
various local road improvement programs operated by the national government
agencies and incorporate them into local programs administered by the
provincial governments. In order to achieve this objective, it will be
necessary for the Government to make an increased annual allocation of
resources to the provincial governments to provide them with a regular flow of
funds for improving and maintaining low-cost, low-standard roads. Efforts
are also being made to increase the local tax base to enable provincial
governments to contribute a larger share of the cost of rural road improve-
ment programs. Expanded local government responsibility for the construc-
tion and maintenance of rural roads is a positive step towards increasing
local participation in rural development programs, the dominant theme of
decentralization.
(iii) Technical Assistance for Training
62.       Technical Assistance for training, extended to MLGCD and the
provinces, would further promote the institution-building objective of the
project. A training unit would be set up within MLGCD (Section 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement), and technical assistance advisors appointed to
develop a training program utilizing and adapting systems and materials
already developed by MPH for the national road program. Training would be
carried out at the provincial level by the Provincial Engineers Offices
(PEOs), and MLGCD's training unit would train the PEO teachers. A training
evaluation system would be instituted, in consultation with the Bank, in
MLGCD's training unit, to appraise and monitor the effectiveness of the



- 19 -
manpower development and training programs on a continuous basis (Section
4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The project also includes advanced
technical training and study tours for selected permanent staff of the
provinces and MLGCD.
Project Execution
63.       MLGCD and the provinces, assisted by qualified consultants, will
be the implementing agencies for all project components associated with
rural roads. MPH, assisted by qualified consultants, will be the executing
agency for the construction and improvement of the roads in Occidental
Mindoro and the provision of a new MPH Central Soils and Materials
Laboratory. The technical assistance for transport advisory services will
be the responsibility of MOTC and NEDA.
64.       The project includes 48 man-months of local and 556 man-months of
expatriate technical assistance advisory services. The estimated cost of
expatriate consultants' services including all expenses is $8,700 per man-
month. The estimated cost per man-month for local consultant's services is
about $2,700 equivalent. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that the qualifications, terms of reference and work programs of the
consultants and technical assistance experts would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       In order to ensure uniformity and because the provincial authorities
have little experience in contract administration, all procurement, except
that being undertaken by MPH and MOTC/NEDA, would be carried out by NLGCD with
the help of the technical assistance advisors provided under the Project.
This would include: (a) machinery and equipment; (b) civil works by contract;
(c) consulting services and technical assistance; and (d) arrangements for
overseas training and study tours. However, the project provinces would
participate in the procurement process and in the design, contract adminis-
tration and construction supervision of the project roads to an extent
commensurate with their capability. As the provinces gain in competence,
improve their organization and recruit sufficient qualified staff, their
participation in undertaking the actual work would increase. It is antici-
pated that by the time the project is completed, these provinces would be able
to continue the development of their rural road networks independently, with
only general guidance from MLGCD.
66.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period and the
road construction and workshop improvement components would require about
three years to execute. An action program has been agreed between the Govern-
ment and the Bank, with particular emphasis on staffing and institutional
improvements for the implementation, by MLGCD and the provinces, of project
components associated with rural roads (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Assurances were also obtained that the Government would: (a) arrange
for timely acquisition of land for right-of-way for each road section and



- 20 -
workshop site prior to awarding construction contracts (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement); and (b) cause MLGCD and the project provinces to
implement a rural roads maintenance program in accordance with a timetable of
physical targets, budgetary allocations and administrative improvements as
agreed with the Bank (Section 4.06(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
67.       The total cost of the project, including land acquisition, is
estimated at about $105 million equivalent, excluding duties and taxes for
items to be procured directly by MLGCD. Physical contingencies of 10% on
all items are included in the project cost and overall physical and price
contingencies combined represent about 27% of the total cost. Inflation
during the project implementation period has been assumed to be as follows:
for local costs, 16% for 1980, 10% for 1981 and 7% p.a. thereafter; for
foreign costs 10.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% p.a.
thereafter.
68.       The proposed loan of $62 million would finance 59% of the total
project cost, including $18.5 million of local costs. Justification for local
cost financing is contained in para. 22 of this report. The national and
provincial governments would finance the balance of the project costs of about
$43 million equivalent. Except for the roads in Occidental Mindoro and the
new MPH central laboratory facilities, which are entirely the national
government's responsibility, the local costs of the rural road and provincial
workshop improvements would be shared between the national and provincial
governments, with the national government contributing varying amounts in
accordance with the different fiscal capabilities of each participating
province. During negotiations, the Government agreed to complete arrangements
between MLGCD and the six provinces by December 31, 1980, for sharing the
costs of project components associated with rural roads. (Sections 3.07 and
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Retroactive financing of $108,000 is
recommended to provide funds for project preparation work undertaken by
consultants (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
69.       Civil works contracts for the construction and improvement of the
national and provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro, amounting to about
$17 million, would be awarded to prequalified contractors on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines. Civil works contracts for the construction and improvement of
rural roads, totalling about $29 million, and for the construction and
extension of workshops and laboratories, including installation of workshop
equipment, totalling about $3.3 million, would be awarded to prequalified con-
tractors on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. In these cases,
international competitive bidding would not be appropriate as the relatively
small contracts involved would be scattered in six separate provinces and
phased over a period of four years. However, foreign firms would be eligible



- 21 -
to participate. All construction contracts would contain appropriate price
escalation clauses to account for expected inflation. The Government has
agreed to institute an improved system for careful evaluation of
prequalificatUon applications, similar to the procedures adopted by MPH under
the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1661-PH) (Schedule 4, para. 3 of the draft
Loan Agreement). Workshop equipment and machinery, soils and materials
testing equipment, tools, and engineering and road maintenance equipment, with
a total cost of about $9.0 million, would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf items,
each costing less than $10,000 equivalent, and procurement of hand tools for
road maintenance would be conducted on the basis of normal government
procurement procedures which are acceptable to the Bank; the total amount of
such purchases would not exceed $300,000 equivalent.
Disbursements
70.       The loan would be disbursed against normal documentation over a
five-year period on the basis of: (a) 55% of total construction and
improvement costs for rural roads executed by MLGCD; (b) 50% of total
construction costs for national and provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro;
(c) 50% of total construction costs for provincial workshops and laboratories;
(d) 60% of total construction costs for the MPH soils and materials labora-
tory; (e) 100% of the c.i.f.  cost of imported equipment, spare parts, tools,
machinery and components, if procured directly abroad, or 65% if procured
locally; (f) 100% of the ex-factory cost of equipment, spare parts, tools, and
components produced locally; and (g) 100% of the cost of overseas training and
consulting services, whether expatriate or local. Disbursements, up to an
aggregate total of $108,000, may be made for project preparation costs
incurred after July 1, 1979 and prior to loan signature. It was agreed with
the Government that disbursements would not be made for rural road improvement
contracts for each of the three years from January 1, 1981 to December 31,
1983, until the Bank has approved the size and scheduling of the annual rural
road improvement program for the following year (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Economic Return
71.       The major benefits of the project would result from the provision
of more economical transportation in areas where an existing or potential
transport demand has been identified. Project roads would serve areas which
are predominantly agricultural, thus providing the local population with
opportunities to market their products, to improve the quality and quantity
of their yields through prompt, low-cost delivery of agricultural inputs,
and thereby to intensify land use. Agricultural extension workers, through
better access, would be able to assist more local farmers. Improvement of
the national and provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro would give access to



- 22 -
an area hitherto only reachable by sea. The population served by project
roads generally have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty threshold
for the Philippines.
72.       By upgrading and improving the capacity and resources of provincial
governments and organizations in the six provinces, the project would also
assist in achieving the Government's objective of decentralizing responsi-
bilities for the planning, construction and maintenance of the rural road
network. The project would serve as a basis for extending such capabilities
throughout the Philippines. Under Loan 1661-PH, preparations have already
been completed to commence feasibility studies and develop rural road
improvement programs in an additional 8 provinces. Additional funds have
been included in the project to expand these studies to include a total of
20 provinces.
73.       The quantified project benefits are based on:  (a) the projected
increase in the net value of animal and/or crop production, including better
ex-farm prices of inputs and crops; and (b) the reduction in the transport
costs of: (i) nonagricultural commodities, such as consumer goods and
minerals; and (ii) passengers. Road user savings for these two types of
traffic not directly related to agricultural production have been quantified
to supplement the primary benefit component of the net value added on
incremental output resulting from the road construction or from a combined
road/agricultural investment (e.g. Iloilo). In general, these reduced
transport costs comprise about 15-25% of total benefits.
74.       The economic rates of return (ERR) for the rural roads range from
17% to 55%, with an overall ERR of 31%. The returns on the national and
provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro are 23% and 22%, respectively, with a
weighted average of 23%. The overall ERR of all roads is 28%. These rates
of return exclude investment in road maintenance equipment, workshops and
related equipment and machinery, and technical assistance. The benefits of
the maintenance components have not been quantified but experience in this
type of investment elsewhere suggests high returns, giving this type of
investment the highest priority in road development programs.
Project Risks
75.       The risks, in terms of potential economic benefits, are normally in
the estimates of traffic and agricultural growth rates and savings in vehicle
operating costs, which have been accounted for in the sensitivity analysis
performed. Because of the new approach being taken by the project in
decentralizing responsibility and authority, the main risks are associated
with the performance of MLGCD and the provinces in implementing the various
project components. While risks are not inconsiderable, the proposed approach
provides the opportunity to promote the Government's decentralization policy.
The lack of trained staff poses a problem but the substantial technical
assistance and training, organizational changes, and agreed action programs,
which are an essential part of the project, should minimize this risk.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness would be agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank on satisfactory Memoranda of Agreement
between the Ministries of Finance, Budget, Public Highways and Local Govern-
ment and Community Development defining responsibility for construction and
improvement of national and local roads, and budgetary and administrative
responsibility for such roads (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
An additional condition of disbursement would be that disbursements would
not be made for rural roads improvement contracts for each of the three years
from January 1, 1981 to December 31, 1983 until the Bank has approved the
size and scheduling of the annual rural road improvement program for the
following year (Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
78.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                         By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
May 5, 198Q



- 24-                                       ANNEX I
SBLt 3A                                        Page  1  of  5
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IRUELNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AERtAGES
LAO ARZA (THOUSAND SQ. DI.)                   QI                           - MOST RECENT EST1MATE) '
TOTAL            300.0                                                 SAME        SAME     NEMl UIGCll
ACRICULYDL6L      56. 7                              m, mm            =DCRAPHIC    mcomi       Dicoms
1960 A      1970 A  ESTIMATE A      RECION /e  0r8ou Ld    GROUP 
C21 PER CAPITA (USS)                 140.0       230.0    510.0           528.9      467.5      1097.7
Er ECT CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS Or COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0       3D1.0    329.0            371.1      262.1       730.7
POPUtLATION AN) VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. fLD-YTA  (MILLIONS)    27.4        36.9      4.5
UR1 POPULATION (PU1CRM  OF TOTAL) 30.1         31.8      34.0            27.4       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PHOJHTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (NLLIONS)                      76.0
STATIONARY POPUI.ATION (KfLLIONS)                     128.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RACHED                 2075
POPULATION DESxiTY
PER SQ. ]C.                      91.0       123.0    148.0            154.8       45.3        44.6
PRr SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAID    360.0      472.0    513.0            566.7      149.0       140.7
POPVLATION AGE STUCTURE (PECENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.7        45.5      46.0            41.3       45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        53.6      51.0            54.9       51.9        55.3
65 Ms. AD ABOVE                    3.0         2.9       3.0             3.3        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWEH RArT (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.7             2.4        2.7         2.4
IIUUI                             4.0         3.8       3.5             4.3'       4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIT  RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0         43.0      35.0            30.2       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    15.0        11.0       9.0             5.3       11.7         9.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION HATR             3.5f        3.3       2.4             2.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANUL (THOUSANDS)        *-       191.7    643.0                .
USERS (PERCENT o0 2ARRIED WOM!g)   ..         2.0      22.0            34.1       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
DIEX OF FOOD PRODU MION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.1       101.0    111.0            106.2       99.6       104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY TOF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREXITS)                   63.0        86.0      87.0           104.1       9*.7       105.0
P1OTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         44.0        45.0      50.0            57.4       54.3        64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0L&     22.0      19.2            16.9       17.4        23.5
CILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0        10.0       7.0             4.8       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIE EXPECACT AT BIR  (TEARS)    51.0          57.0      60.0            61.1       54.7        60.2
INTANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
DOUSAND)                           96.0        80.0      65.0            46.6       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAE  (PERCErI OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      39.0            21.9       34.4        60.8
u                                  ..          ..      51.0            46.2       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      33.0            12.8       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCUETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      56.0            28.4       40.8        *6.0
RA                                 ..          ..      76.0            65.0       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0            14.7       27.7        22.5
-POPULATION PER PHSICIAN                   ..         ..   3150.0           3790.5    6799.4       2262.4
POPLULATION PER NURSING PERSON    .  ..      3840.0   4990.0           1107.4     L522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1180.0       850.0    890.0            613.3      726.5       453.4
IIRSN                              ..          ..        ..           203.6      272.7       253.1
RRAtL                              ..          ..        ..          1110.3    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PEL HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            23.9       27.5        22.1
EOOS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.8         5.9        ..             5.2        5.4         5.3
UtBAN                              ..         6.2        ..              ..        5.1         5.2
ERURL                              ..         5.8        ..              ..        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE  UIMER. OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         2.3        ..              ..         ..         1.9
CRLBA                              ..         2.1        ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              *-         2.4        ..              ..         ..         2.5
ACCESS -0 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLLNGS)
TOTAL                            16.5        22.91h    31.0              ..       28.1        50.0
UMAN                               ..        62.87       ..              ..      .45.1        71.7
RURAL                                         5.8      10.0              ..        9.9        17.3



ANNEX I
APago  2  of  5
TAWZ 3A
PitIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUMT
=LPINKS                  RPE         GROUPS     TID A    ES
- MOST RECENT 5T ) -
MOST RCtNT       ROouSRIC   INCUt        ulczU
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ET T  /b         REGION/c   GOU  /d    ROUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUS ED OLLMEN  JATIOS
pinsaR:    TOAL                  95.0       114.0    105.0             97.9       82.7       102.5
HALE                98.0       115.0    102.0             98.7       87.3       106.6
DEAZAE              93.0       113.0    10p.0             97.4       75.3        97.1
SECODARTl  TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0            42.2       21.4        33.5
MALE                28.0        59.0      65.0            46.7       33.0        38.4
FEALS               25.0        4.0       47.0            40.9       15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENOL. (2 OF SECOSNDA)  15.0          6.0        ..            12.5        9.8        11.5
PUPIL-_TACmR RNTO
PlnRoy                           36.0        29.0      29.0            32.5       34.1       35.8
SECONDAZY                        27.0        33.0      31.0            25.8       23.4       22.9
ADULT STUACT RATE (PERENT)         71.9        82.6      87.0            84.1       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENtGE CAM PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0         8.0       8.9             6.1        9.3        13.5
UDIO RECEIVERS PE  TER4SAND
POPULATION                       22.0        39.0      44.0            84.4       76.9      122.7
TV RECEIES PER TOIUSAID
POPUIATIO                        1.4        10.0      17.0            22.4       13.5       38.3
WI1PAMX ("DALY (ZNEAL
INTEREST-) CICULATION PR
T;USAQ POPULATION                  17.0        14.0      18.0            24.2       18.3       40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PU CAPITA  0.6          ..       7.6             3.6        2.5        3.7
LABOR FORCt
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)    10100.0    12400.0  16244.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 34.4        33.1      35.3            36.7      29.2        25.0
ARICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0        55.0      50.9            54.6       62.7       43.5
NDUSTRE (PERCENT)                15.2        15.8      14.8            16.3      11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PKIC210I)
TOTAL                              39.8        36.6      35.3            40.7       37.1       33.5
HALT                               52.17       48.6      47.1            49.9       48.8        48.0
WEALE                              27.4        24.4      23.3            31.0       20.4        11.8
eCOINQIC DENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.4       1.3             1.1        1.1        1.4
ICOMI  DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATZ INCOME
RECIImD BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEILDS   28.3          ..        ..            14.9       15.2       20.8
IGXHES 20 PECENT OF SWSEIOLDS  56.2          53.9      53.3            46.8      48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PEICENT OF SOISESOLDS    4.2        3.7       5.5             6.2       6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF bOUSDOLDS   11.9        11.9      14.7            16.8       16.3       12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIhATED ASOLUTE POVERT  3COME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    250.0            193.1     241.3       270.0
RIRAL                              ..          ..    190.0            128.7      136.6      183.3
ESTIMATD RELATIVE POVERTY  LCmE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U0RB                               ..          ..    132.0            136.8     179.7       282.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      87.0            96.8     103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPUlATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCMtE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      39.0            32.0      24.8        20.5
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0            52.5      37.5        35.3
Noe available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The adjusced group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric mana, excluding the exrci
values of the indicacor and the most popu.Lated country In each group. Coverage of countries amOng th
indicators depends *n availability of data and is tot uniform.
/b   !nless ochervise noctd, data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, baetven 1969
and 1971; and for Nost Recent Istimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Jc    Fast Asia & Pacific;  /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  *e  Interediace Middle Incom
(5551-L135 per capi:a, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  LI Av. 1960-62; /h  1967, nousenolds.
Mota Recent Esctimte of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 26-
ANNEX I
cvxr,l ator LLnMC                                                                             Page  3  of  5
Not..:  Al0tb,4b 01. f.ttr  -a~   flo   a,.a9 genorally  (otga    . ant .otbra-t.tIa-  wa  raUth., l                       001.  .10  '0 oo-or  tOt 106   w~ nt h bla..
tbtotr ~47IC ~Sut..    t  slgao  Oat. oL", anc.f.1   ldotr foCptlSrea t11 It-l r   an- of th. -.o0   7Atd LI.    t.r p.;04 tacta
Cbp.l   oa.g    .alao-bitaadPeat   O   :0.-r catc-v-oit-o~ art                                3-9-.tn.tcoa  Oil oat   .n    lhttae,,ito A             hI .    nlt    Ato. -.00
Aal-Oe.        ta    attt  *abLa..o   gabutraI . by             tt..-brl.f-7 g ,aonh4af :ra-a-ta;u1l,a                                             aIt.  os   agln,O
Ot p4'ta.attl  ft?erlp, atuga   fLat   Io-.00. (be.~_. rt                         theI          ....ott   to ltoal    ttll.ot.aaf                     I - e     to-ra.1
II.P  fda.. .us             a                                                                   and  ...          07  atartnate    ttn.or  O. tr o  pi  pttn-..04a..ll
bait4.tdy .*a   Itaoa-a..  aat4o     McnIA BoO  Atl..  (1976-78 hal.);                    q.ltdf-c      aW~sua   botatp o-l
1960, l97D   od O978 dtt. ..Ppibt   01.   y  aa    fputnd    ai
ha,1-          L.ar.,        betaa  -Lnan " 0Oao-, .agaa -   ad g9o.                    t~I.tIonfI,o ~tal  30.1,-ttlo-a    ~ot --Pt,pt Polclto -bot..l  Wrae
197. nod 1976 dA.                                                                                P Lit.Uoadp-ct  ga,L   oor,l.0   aproOoOb.pt.ls   r.5ia2.t                             aa
FoaPltbLa ba-a a.t 1.OIaobt. paeotLy staffd by bb "eat  -.  pbyaito
POPJt.A77o  MMo 02JL StAT-0-:C5                                                                   lotahllohanta  pa-idtti    ps-_iopaiUy  --otdtal                  -teas   o  iobdad.  0-.1
total -.o.t    -ota .r aoUlo-) - A. of Culy 1: 1960, 1970,. td                                  hopt,boto . ttOloO. Osatb anib                d.d      cntt. t Poaaa.abl   t.arf"
1977 Ua..                                                                                    by . phyetit  (bit by a 4101a.aaat    ota   .1 1. *tI. )   itSh  W.fa
Lwtao'ojto  'prroo  tital) -  attio tf orbs  to bobal ptp..ltbo;                                to-PatLibt aetd.ta             d5  p-Iat. a llftaa    -ang   tf bdieoI  .rbilittt..
dlff.aot dafLAi 11ota  of7 ib- o  am ..       allat  -T -obLitby of dot.                   Adtaebot pe   I,aOa Pod               b.ot   onr of aila-to    to or ditto -.e.. fro
.. C      Itraas~     19,ad 197  lob.-                                                   bayb.l  OtIo   1 000 n.r of boa..
Poattcoloy,.rltOI ~~~~~:- C -at b,pAtI..se  Pro-Jctbaa br. Seed en              tUlMG
~~3~ifl~p.latiooby .ga ad  tao.0   0*l    rta.lty an   o-IIb                        rrg f.rlt.-M    III   {,aoll   .           boo.r6nI4(   toad. art..  n  r-al-I
rat..  t-a-'ootta  ..e.o.oe-a to- ,taOy ca.  ca- -a  of 0-.0a                      0 toi.o_tlo  roolt  oF  o4tOp of  -ttOtttIiO0                     L-aOr ittOt   qtct...A
II-".a,ogIt.e-lhar  at nbL-h  toga                   Lz tto    t-ye   a                    thatr anNA  -.Ia.  A boat-Oa  or IW., fly  -  -J  tot ta              l,Oat  M.O
pee 1q1. mote   re.., .4 7.510lit   oPootatiY aUDbliatog  at                     1o-.bolo  fr  otttall .i  OTlOSa
77.9 vatS.  T.  W...tr   fo  FeonlUt   -a.  I1.  tac   th-ra  1I.1.                      Ateaeoinre   ottaba  -                       oa    raladt-.L - Ara.C.  .jah-
anaogdrto    1fetIlUty ae-edi.g  to           I.tlaa  I,0d pat                    f  oosporot.oalcan 04-t-    cctRd  oeo- La.talot
f.aly             P.,In    pofr.  ot.   c    -totty La th-  aoaLgaad  -a  of thtoaa         ::-.aottcey.  Nalllt(a. aalId. t-pot-             .tao   ata- -r.  ad    - pccipld purt..
Lbo.  -bio.tto    of sc-Oity  an  f.niellty ta-en. for pa-olotiot                       A_ca toI     otl   ttrreto   oIta   totl.sb-  and a-orL-  Co-
Stattotary tootlablot    :a at atat-a7o PoraLlatt-  than  to no v-ath                t.t.d, r-ban, td rura  dafltog.  apOlOy
at..  ti  aIr  a-ba    ..ouL to tO. d.atO cLt., .al  alan th. .go
at -t.tsr   ree .  -tottt.  Ttl. J. -ea.-d only o.fto  frttillty ra.-                 E2017ION
d.ello  to the  oaaatni.-  of -it oat ra d-p ttboO    a-at.,  -S.                        4,.000Lre-d             abe
a-o  gaetbti- of oe rpla.    t:f aztoy.j TO. at.tttaarr  POlta                             Prao1;etl      ca ml   "o fe-al.  .- l-a  total, saL. ata  fealo  oc-oil
tato   ama oa   ataodo  t.bs.  of b             e,. pnjat.d k tsat.rtntt                     ob0  ala.4.  at booP a-.y  oral aspacoa                       f rtpot    -ap-tay
of  IO PoPA"iiot     L. th. yas- 20D, an  to. eat. of dtIto. of faa-ttltby                   Oebei-ago popalttonaI,  ternally             i ,o oeotOtAn   aged 6-il a-aba-  tot
ata.05   n   n.l-t.                                                                          at-aeot  oa abet-a  he off-t-j acno  tg
Pnpolntio. oaaT  e                 rt.  cay.                                                      odti  __.roato _tetal _al_t _00            _na." - C    Pt= aaa..ea -aotn.Po-
Par a. a.- ltdpassPo.N.abioo P., aquas  kil-t.a  (10 baot-.e) of                        aotonrqit.t                   tforyea  r.o  app-o,d pa-teoY iotruto
Parat    . ag-c              -drd20    - Cosatad  -a obo.  for aga-tloolgL 1.0d                 --I,I   of .2 to  7 ysaoag;o-epontattaaar    aa-llp
Papiatlo Ageota-otot. ''reet) -  hiid-o  (0-lb Y---a), aobo.-aP0ti-.    oolo    ra-ato   eodsy       oato.  ititatttoa   .Iboolod
(15.-. bara , so  feta-eb:5 yaa     d .-0 rt) SOprab.a    ftd-.ya                       "IfIcl,tctc          tol  o  Otto- p-og         ahict opaa-aa  iodapo -anYora
Iodbioa   *0   1977, 004 1977 tIb-                                                       Oayarn.o-  oft- -t"r ot-tbcea-
Itoattlotlot crown: cate - cr"atb) .tota  A eoi.. g.a-oat  raba of total .2d.         fut-aoort,p--I                      D   eodr      oal.uat   aoidt
3orP. p.Ioio. f-  IoS-`    l*6c-9D  an  197077.                                              ptry -.    d .ooaoyloa.doIdh   bg    f t.b.e.r  In tba eta-ca
Popololot ot-nOh bae 'peoart  - -ita-  AO.-L (C--at  rat.. of  .0ap-tglco.
prti,aboO   fo-  1350-0l -                                                                -1-3 an797-7k-0d   i1 o-. a-t (rc-o Ih   - lbra .010. (.61. to rad .4d -taO.) 
Cr.d. fla-t  Ra-  -ca  tlo,,ad)   A..."a  1Ie- biatto por th-t.04 of od-                          a      .ta-t-,-g -f t'tal a--ilt P.pJJatto-  .ga  15 Yats  tad  -cr.
Cr", bathA Rate   lft- :tcoadY - M-aia  d-n.t   par  h-o.o.a  of ad-yea                    CCi9(3TiMPor
PopLto;76.17,.1 iS    o.t.                                                                            C.aeaa - C   (par th-onaad per,lati..  - P-aa.,nt   -waootaa  -tnr a-to
ae-    Apt,otcoPt -tor.g. otoa  of daogt-a Ia  -.   tillha b-ta  aLea ...0LI   otght P-.a...;  o-1.da  -.OhtaaOa,  -otaasd ailltso
In  toN-  ra  ce;e-I      eeP-1.d  If oh. .tpatooap-ot ag..etton 
aPol-t  faatlt  rat1.;   rot.ig  t-ya.-  t-ar.go. andig to 1950,                          Rd1  Rot-a ter fo-, thoosand oPb-l.,1oj - A1.1 typo, Of  -.i-o            r         .rrdI.
MaIyt2eao       ccer-cr   A.-oo  tthons d.r) - RoLAn  at Io    f                     raootratoeIorta-ioa  ad L. y-saot   ait-to    faat   naa.I
a    Iaor   f bitht- -corl anciot  ota-4.  bopt-r  of aSbtono  fasLy                  affIIt; data for reect yoaco  Wt  tt 0*  -ep-rbL.    L- aba          c-a ab  oaia
PIaonbe    a--or.-                                                                           aboLiohod licroatog
to al fa-i"  ot    t  Isg  a.  -emP.                                                       .00  tore. Y-     o  rg tatatl          TVo 7' nt,.    oaffoet 
a-cdt o    379127                                                                               of   airceotihoaaa    a-apIf, iIT-da..o  oecdtd   abdehe
I                 If o   oJ .ooto   r-1  -ata26.'.-I.lde        ifrcaaaOehd   tcotr  orce g 6-e.1.  ee    It Ia  -ceadaa-a  to ba  'd.1Wy
Ia Saaado. aacttot ant-a. et-ooo  rthrtr tntgktta
Na- etota  othl of cror   .gpotr  oft  cotblao.ta IiI                                       mnuiha  ftnab I  o-f
P.,Urn.ta    dtofo   -roea tag, andlom-  Itt tIntthca                       oa.-.        fa-a. -ecr.            ea.   Labor fort, a.prat              fttllb r font-
goat tar  attoba  b L Ad t ask d Ut .Pr     tgcl  ed    fet-  ona            ~         io-1- so                   ao   ot   0femo           o-ar        uto    n
aenla-boy  nd b..ttb   oaata.ret  tactro-eatal taaportac.  boq   o ighta,   -2.0-4 a.  erceohCg.Of hood taor foroc 
aW.sa W... tott-tb-bt-  of poPoiStico                        LO i.sg1   I-een  fea       ooaayoa-o     Labor fort  toL              00,narolttnfabolga
-aito0  ho,.aotoId 1-01.                                                                   a-er.  t-   . .cad go              paroatbag   of to-a "lbr fort..
Par Itbt Pi.0-1y of  --tht.  C_ta  Pe- 4.)    Pa-orhin oato  o   e                          arti-ai- t.. a,  -oh   tta:P.,.0  aslo.t"it-Orpaobo  o
Maun  tt  orLo of, fo-d Par day- Rtt applg of food La Oat-loa   4ateh    -t.a-   tso.   .  od nb at   ea.iSrrn    ar
abon    a.qtoe.aabo  for  ll _ iI .....t Ia a toOiad by U10 P-idh. fC.                   -otagna of t00.1, aIaI and fasla  pop,olati. of all tga.  -pa-aaabb.yr
WL0A     .lla11ao   of 6SO gonn  of atal pa-tait Po-  hay  420 t ga-a   of                 1950.  970  .40197 Rota.  ITha.. ar  124 a postlc.rato    onto. oafl.etbA
aa.1adP,;,. paotl          of     I" .10 gan   ahoolA  h   -nOaa  pa-tab.                                           V.Itohtooa-   ft . posL_an  and 1oa  h1Ib ta-an.  A 73 .toan Ca.b
Tao  UtOdIe,,,  anlsrthaa V.O    ef 70ca    ftotal ponnoga  -At                            anfc-athcol            oa th
25 gat  -f aod.I Pa-ota  oanaaa.          g  for tb. on14. ponpo.ad by rAOc             kIi(ote-tto-  RatIo of  1eolaeo400i  bbd 65 and  -r to
ta U. Tba-S Wtr1d  Pod Suo-,o                                                             O  I".Crocatao                pof1-ioa,
ParI, th  orthot IV.:;:tie fro a.    t. ... a c-ao      -Prtaba OtLIZ of rtad
CilI  .40  1-.tetalty   at.  aa-t.-oar.O. Oetcidi-  dasth .Par th-aaad          hacota-    oIt  on   ba 0 oat ad atd) - ftn.l.td by  bat
Pt.3sw.   -7S,   tcu,   otl   c   Oop   o PL                  -atdonl                  I  acn,ro          t 0 por-nt  Poo-.  It   P.tcot, and P-ora  50 Pa--a
WALfb                                                                                        FUt-!7 fTXP,7Ir 13(007
year Of  ge poa- tNA-Iooath af Ito-t.-iert- hi  Ut..i . ... I-IiiO-fa
daoaeoao .J         a   iha.ta   tc  fat_ _t.    oreaa atgaot                                       ,ohgtfrtth      hia~r ca   f Itt-tog to  -IIn iI        an
an  ant _     ..i t   a..a--ctg"  f-O.1aa.a   0  f tioa    0                                at-td  r,.to hI. Oolia ico-I not  ca bora,t   ubn n
.4ob.vaapblit  feoctS.0  .-c .t.ne.. o-ata  net            th 7.0                 rua       atn   fpoiolt  torha  .00  a-P..,-.oa   bol     ro
tO.nt.  t.a.taorasor   ft. trt,-aooi- -L,oa  bh.-  ao apato  a                                                                          oagtSdttl                t. Dboato.1
dOAreobortLosoa   pact of bOa &oy I. fa.t-tio  tha falyant.r aad                                                                    o    Aitli-ayt. abd PrtJat'oa-  Dapbt-%a
---V'tat99



- 27 -                                                              ANNEY I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average           1979
Actual                      Est.              Projected                       growth rates (%)         share
1972    1975     1976    1977    1978        1979       1980        1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of GDP
N1ational Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GDP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,077   21,298    22,594    29,392                 6.5       6.1       6.6       110.0
Terrs of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613        -70        -70      -387       -465       -262         -         -         -           -
GDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129                 6.1       5.8       6.9        99.6
Imports - constant prices        3,304   4,116   4,460   4,799   5,489          5,865     6,068      6,484      8,271        8.8        5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices        3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592          4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022         7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade            3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355    4,464        4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2       it.6       21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133        768   1,129       1,510     1,604      1,586         511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                     10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861         15,646   16,393      17,262    21,421          5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963          5,822    6,176       6,552      8,524        12.2       1.8       6.6        29.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743          4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410         7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833          4,537    4,807       5,227      7,328         9.0     -0.3        8.8        22.6
Sector Outout (millions of
US$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                      3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385          5,417    5,688       5,972      7,259         5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6.285   6.690          7,043    7,536       8,064    11,061          8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853          7,617    8,074       8,558    11,072         6.0        8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 = 100)
Export price index                47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3        13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price indes                44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4        15.1      13.2      6.8
Terms of trade index             105.6   100.0    87.9    86.8    94.9           98.4      92.0       91.3       96.7       -1.7      -1.6        1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                            4.5      3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9        3.3
Inport elasticity                 0.93    0.59      1.24    1.22    2.32         1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3           23.1      22.9       23.4        26.8
I=ports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.0           29.2      28.5       28.7       28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5              29.0      29.0       29.0       29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9      7.1      6.7      4.3      6.C        7.5       7.5        7.0         1.7
Public Finance                       1972    1975    1976    1977    1970
(Central Government)              --- (2 of CDP in current prices) ---                Labor Force in 1978 /c              Millions    (7)
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                   Agriculture                         7.4       44.4
lax revenue                        9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                  lIdustry                              2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                   Services                             5.6      33.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.7               Unemployed                           1.1       6.4
Capital expenditurLs               1.9      3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital fornation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Esti.ate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asic and Pacific Region
November 1979



- 28 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(USS million)
Actual                            Ear.            Projected
1972      1975       1976       1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1985
S-ary of Balance of Psy,ents
Exports of goods and services              1,455     3,170      3,387      4,161     4,736    5,790    6,620    7,650    15,500
Of which:  exports of goods              1,136     2,294      2,574      3,151     3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700    12,100
Imports of goods and services              1,632     4,412      4,763      5,248     6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goods              1,230     3,459      3,633      3,915      4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905    13,100
Transfers (oet)                              188        318       269        260        312       340      370       400        600
Current Account Balance                     11      -924    -1,107        -827    -1.274   -1,780   -1,930   -2,180    -1,400
Direct investment (net)                      -22        125       144        216        163       150      150       170        250
'iLT loans (net)                             140        359     1,040        662        834    1,000    1,300    1,670        1,180
Official-source loans (net)                 94       117        282        332        333      420       520       710        790
Private-ource loans (net)                   46       242        758        330        501      580       780       960       400
Other capital /a                              56       -81       -238        113        233       47       100       120        170
Overall Balance /b                          94      -521       -161        164        -54     -583       380      -200        400
Interoational reserves (end-year) /c         551     1,358      1,640      1,525      1,883    2,423    2,130    2,130       3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official granto                              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
lotal public loans                        422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBRD                                     29.5      114.0      226.0      317.5      533.0
IA                                       10.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      28.0
Otler olcilateral                        43.3     106.0       64.2      207.3      189.2
Gover-nenro                              275.5     182.3      391.6      172.3      370.4
of which CPE                            0.0       13.2        5.9        0.0       0.0
Suppliers                                  2.0      52.5       52.0      194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                   61.7      314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                      0.0       0.0      367.2      129.7     219.2
Other IILT Ioans                           130.0     233.0      603.6      134.8      914.0
lteinorandom It-ens
Grart ele-ent of commitments                28.0      16.4        8.8       14.7       16.8
Avecago interest (Y)                         5.4        7.4       8.3        7.9        7.4
Avarage  .atority (yours)                   17.3       16.7      13.1       15.3       15.9
Hlediut 6 Long-Tter Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt outstanding (end of
period)                               1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Includino  undishbrsed                  2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                      -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                     -51.6      -73.0      -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other liLT debt service                  -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                       -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                          22.1       14.9      15.7       18.0       20.0                        December 31. 1978
Debt service ratio /d                       22.7       15.6      16.4       19.5       20.6                         Amo.nt  Percent
Debt service/GDP                             3.8        3.0       2.9        3.7        4.0   fateral Debt        (ISO  nlns)
Public debt service/government                                                                (disbursed only)
revenue                                   17.0       9.1        9.9       12.0      20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Bank Group L         576    13.8
Terms                                                                                             Other .olti-
lateral            277     6.6
Interest on total DOD/total DOD              6.1       5.4        4.1        6.4       4.0      Governments         1,039    24.8
Total dabt service/total DOD                17.7      16.9       10.5       15.8       13.3     Suppliers             271     6.5
Financil1
Deperoency Batios                                                                                    institutions     1,254    29.9
Bon-ds               7 71    18.4
Gross disbur-en-tn/imports (GNFS)           30.2      21.4       37.9       29.7       34.3     Total public
Net transfer/inports (GNFS)                 12.7        7.7       6.1        5.4        5.4       MLT debt          4,188   100.0
let transfor/gro.s  disrseb- e--n           4L.9      36.2       16.2       18.9      23.2      Other MIDT debt    2,651    63.3
Other lILT debt
Exposure                                                                                             (icl.  n-
disbursed)       3,293    78.6
IBRD disb./grcos  total dinb.                4.7       9.8        5.5        7.4       8.3      Total public
Bank Group disb./gross total di.b./e         4.8      10.7        6.2        7.5        8.3       debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/tota1 DOD                           7.8       8.0        7.2        7.3        8.0       undlsbursed)    7,563  10.6
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                  7.8       8.6        7.8        7.8        8.4     Total lILT debt
IBRD debt service/total debc service         4.4        5.5       6.6        5.6       6.9        (itcl, un-
Bask Group debt ner./total debt. serv./e 4.4            5.6       6.7        5.6        7.0       disburs-d)       10,856   259.2
/    ha Qor-ter-  capital,  oneti-ation of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Batk ("International reserves", IFS).
/d Includes net diroct investment iosom.
/e  Lxcludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 1980



- 27 -                                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOIIIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Annual average            1979
Actual                      Est.              ProJected                       groath rates (%)          share
1972    1975    1976    1977    197E         1979        1980       1981       1985      1972-78  1978-80  1980-85    of CGDP
Nlational Accounts (millions
of US$ at 1975 prices and
exchange rates)
GOP                             12,929  15,769  16,822  17,865  18,928    20,D77   21,298    22,594    29,392                 6.5       6.1       6.6       110.0
Terms of trade adjustment          168        0    -456    -613        -7C        -70      -387       -465       -262         -         -         -           -
CDY                             13,097  15,769  16,366  17,251  18,695    20,006   20,910    22,129    29,129                 6.1       5.8       t-.9       99.6
Imports - constant prices        3.304   4,116   4.460   4.799   5,489          5.865    6,068       6,484      8.271         8.8       5.2       6.4        29.2
Exports - constant prices        3,020   3,000   3,784   4,644   4,592          4,425    4,852       5,362      8,022         7.2       2.8      10.6        22.0
Exports - adjusted for terms
of trade            3,189   3,000   3,327   4,030   4,359         4,355      4,464      4,897      7,760        5.4       1.2      [1.6        21.1
Resource gap                       115   1,116   1,133        768   1,129       1,510    1,604       1,586         511        -         -         -           7.5
Consumption                     10,221  11,977  12,270  12,756  13,861         15,646   16,393      17,262    21,421          5.2       8.8       5.5        77.9
Investment (incl. stocks)        2,991   4,907   5,228   5,264   5,963          5,822    6,176       6,552      8,524        12.2       1.8       6.6        2q.0
National savings                 3,016   3,983   4,098   4,435   4,743          4,718    4,948       5,360      8,410         7.9       2.1      11.2        23.5
Domestic savings                 2,876   3,791   4,095   4,495   4,833          4,537    4,807       5,227       7,328        9.0      -0.3       8.8        22.6
Sector Output (millions of
US$ at 1975 prices)
Agriculture                      3,993   4,535   4,897   5,140   5,385          5,417    5,688       5,972       7,259        5.1       2.7       5.0        27.0
Industry /a                      4,087   5,314   5,836   6,285   6,69C          7,043    7,536       8,064     11,061         8.6       6.2       8.0        35.1
Services                         4,849   5,920   6,089   6,440   6,853          7,617    8,074       8,558     11,072         6.0       8.5       6.5        37.9
Prices (1975 = 100)
Export price index                47.4   100.0    86.2    86.6    99.2          117.6    123.2       131.6      180.3        13.1      11.4       7.9         -
Import price index                44.9   100.0    98.0    99.8   104.5          119.5    133.9       144.1      186.4        15.1      13.2       6.8         -
Terms of trade index             105.6   IOO.O    87.9    86.8    94.9           98.4      92.0       91.3        96.7      -1.7       -1.6       1.0         -
Selected Indicators
ICOR /b                            4.5      3.4      3.4      3.6      3.6        4.4       4.0        3.9         3.3
Import elasticity                 0.93    0.59      1.24     1.22    2.32        1.13      1.12       1.12       2.08
Average savings rate              19.5    24.7    24.4    25.0    25.3           23.1      22.9       23.4        26.8
Inports/GDP                       25.5    26.1    26.5    26.9    29.Q           29.2      28.5       28.7        28.1
Investment (incl. stocks)/GDP  23.1    31.1    31.1    29.5    31.5              29.0      29.0       29.0        29.0
Resource gap/GDP                   0.9      7.1      6.7      4.3      6.0        7.5       7.5         7.0        1.7
Public Finance                      1972    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Central Government)              --- (1 of GDP in current prices)---                 Labor Force in 1978 /c             Nlillions      M)
Current revenue                   12.2    15.0    13.9    13.2    14.0                   Agriculture                          7.4     44.4
Tax revenue                        9.7    12.0    11.6    11.2    11.9                   Industry                             2.7      16.2
Current expenditure               13.0    13.2    12.3    11.6    11.3                   Services                             5.6      33.0
Current surplus                    0.8      1.8      1.6      1.6      2.7               Unemqployed                          1.1       6.4
Capital expenditures               1.9      3.0      3.5      3.4      4.1
Total Labor Force              16.8    100.0
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
/b  The ICOR is defined as the ratio of fixed capital formation in the previous
period to the current increase in GDP over the previous period.
/c Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1979



- 28 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYIENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                             Est.             Projected
1972       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979      1980      1981       1985
Summary of BSlance of Payments
Exports of goods and services               1,455      3,170      3,387      4,161      4,736     5,790    6,620      7,650    15,500
Of which:  exports of goods               1,136      2,294      2,574      3,151      3,425    4,260    4,900    5,700    12,100
ISports of goods and services               1,632      4,412      4,763      5,248      6,322    7,910    8,920   10,210    17,400
Of which:  imports of goads               1,230      3,459      3,633      3,915      4,732    6,000    6,720   7,6905        13,100
Transfers (net)                               188        318        269        260        312       340       370       400        600
Current Account Balance                      11       -924    -1.107        -827    -1,274   -1,780   -1,930   -2,180    -1,400
Direct investemet (set)                       -22        125        144        216        163       150       150       170        250
*ILT loans (met)                              140        359      1,040        662        834    1,000    1,300    1,670         1,180
Official-source loans (net)                  94        117        282        332        333       420       520       710        790
Private-source loans (met)                   46        242        758        330        501       580       780       960        400
Other capital /a                               56        -81       -238        113        233        47       100       120         170
Overall Ealance /b                           94       -521       -161        164        -54      -583      -380      -200        400
International reserves (end-year) /c          551      1,358      1,640      1,525      1,883    2,423    2,130    2,1t0         3,200
Grants and Loan Coritoencts
Official gr0n1s                               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total public loans                          422.0      769.4   1,577.4   1,372.7   2,417.0
IBR1                                      29.5      114.0      226.0      317.5      533.0
IDA                                        10.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       29.0
Other multilateral                         43.3      106.0       64.2      207.3      189.2
Oovernronts                               275.5      182.3      391.6      122.3      370.4
of which CPE                              0.0       13.2        5.9        0.0        0.0
Suppliers                                   2.0       52.5       52.0      194.2       76.7
Financial institutions                     61.7      314.6      476.4      341.7   1,000.5
Bonds                                       0.0        0.0      367.2      129.7      219.2
Other MILT loans                            130.0      223.0      603.6      134.8      914.0
len.orandum Items
Grant element of com-itments                 28.0       16.4        8.8       14.7       16.8
Average interest (2)                          5.4        7.4        8.3        7.9        7.4
Average matrity (years)                      17.3       16.7       13.1       15.3       15.9
Medium & Long-Tern Debt (disbursed only)
Total debt notstanding (end of
period)                                1,890.0   2,965.0   4,383.0   5,554.0   6,839.0
Including undisborsed                     2,638.0   4,520.0   6,817.0   8,155.0  10,856.0
Public debt service                        -149.6    -225.3    -239.2    -441.9    -468.1
of which:  interest                       -51.6     -73.0       -97.9    -215.2    -167.1
Other ILLT debt service                    -167.6    -232.7    -283.5    -357.1    -441.9
Total debt service                         -317.2    -458.0    -522.7    -799.0    -910.0
Debt Burden
Outstanding
Debt service ratio                           22.1       14.9       15.7       18.0       20.0                         Decerber 31, 1978
Debt senvice ratio /d                        22.7       15.6       16.4       19.5       20.6                          Amount  Percent
Debt service/CDP                              3.8        3.0        2.9        3.7        4.0   External Debt         (0S0  lml)
Public debt service/government                                                                   (disbursed only)
revenue                                    17.0        9.1        9.9       12.0       20.1      IBRD                  546    13.0
Bank Groap /e         576    13.8
Terms                                                                                                Other malti-
lateral            277      6.6
Interaut on total DOD/total DOD               6.1        5.4        4.1        6.4        4.0      Governments         1,039    24.8
Total debt service/tatal DOS                 17.7       16.9       10.5       15.8       13.3      Suppliers             271      6.5
Financial
Dependency Ratios                                                                                      institutions      1,254    29.9
Bonds                 771    18.4
Gross disboruenents/inparts (GNFS)           30.2       21.4       37.9       28.7       34.3      Total public
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                  12.7        7.7        6.1        5.4        5.4        MILT debt         4,188   100.0
Iet transfer/gro.s  dioborsenents            41.9       36.2       16.2       18.9       23.2      Other IILT debt    2,651    63.3
Other 1ILT debt
Enposure                                                                                                (inol. us-
disbursed)        3,293    78.6
IBRD disb./groso total disb.                  4.7        9.8        5.5        7.4        8.3      Total pablic
Bank Gronp disb./gross total disb./a          4.8       10.7        6.2        7.5        8.3        debt (incl.
IBRD DOD/total DOD                            7.8        8.0        7.2        7.3        8.0        undisbursed)    7,563   190.6
Bank Groop DOD/total DOD /e                   7.8        8.6        7.8        7.8        8.4      Total MLT debt
IBRD debt service/total debt service          4.4        5.5        6.6        5.6        6.9        (iacl. sn-
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv./n 4.4            5.6        6.7        5.6        7.0        disbursed)       10,856   259.2
/a  Short-term capital, monetihatiou of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and onisss.
/b Equalu change in net international reserves.
/c  Crons reserves of the Central Book ("Ioternational reserves", IFS).
/d Includes not direct investment incone.
/e Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 1980



- 29 -                 ANNEX II
Page I of 18
THE STATUJS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BA14K LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number    FY       Borrower                Purpose                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and two credits fully disbursed                            264.0   19.5
720-PIT   1971  Rep. of the Philip.    Rice Processing & Storage           14.3                0.3
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                22.0                0.2
349-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Education I'                                 12.7        0.0 /a
939-PIT   1973                            Ports                             6.1                n.1
950-PH   1973                             Second Highways                  68.0                1.6
984-PH   1974                             Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                   2.1
998-PH   1974                             DBP I                            50.0                4.0
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0                3.3
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.0               12.2
1048-PH   1974                             Shipping                         20.0                8.9
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                              30.0                5.3
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.0                6.2
1L02-PH   1975                             Rural Development                25.0               11.9
1120-PH   1975                             Small & Medium Industries        30.0                0.7
1154-PH1  1976                             Magat Irrigation                 42.0               16.6
1190-PH   1976                            ODPB II                           75.0                8.4
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education IIt                    25.0               14.1
1225-PH   1976                             Livestock It                     20.5                6.4
1227-PH  1b976                             Chico Irrigation                 50.0               35.9
1272-T-PH 1976                            lManila Urban                     10.0                5.9
1282-PH   1976                             Manila Urban                     22.0               12.9
1269-PH   1976                             Second Grain Processing          11.5               10.1
1270-PH   1976                             Second Fisheries                 12.0                3.2
1353-PH   1977                             Third Highways                   95.0               72.4
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                15.0                9.0
1374-PH   1977                             Fourth Education                 25.0               15.7
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                               36.5               22.0
1414-PHl  1977 Rep. of the Philip.         National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                  40.1
1415-PH   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                  17.8
1421-PlH  1977                             Rural Dev. Land Stlrt. II        15.0               13.4
1460-PH   1977 Natio il Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0               56.0
1506-PH   1978 Rep. o  the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming          8.0                7.7
1514-PH   1978 Philip. Nlational Bank   PDCP V                              30.0               23.3
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         2nd Hatnl. Irrg. Sys. ITprov. 65.0                  54.3
790-PH   1978                             Rural Infrastructure                     28.0       27.5
S.8-PH   1978                             Education                         2.0                1.9
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.0               39.3
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                 15.0                4.5
1567-PH   1973 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat It                        150.0               98.1
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III        80.0               58.3
1615-PH   1978                             Manila Water Supply IT           88.0               87.1
1626-PH   1979           "National Extension                                35.0               35.0
1639-PH   1979                            Ilagat River Multipurpose         21.0               20.0
1646-PH   1979                             Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                  15.8
1647-PH   1979                             Second Urban Development         32.0               30.1
1661-Pli  1979                             Highways IV                     100.0               99.7
1710-PH   1979                             Water Supply II                  16.0               16.0
920-PH1  1979                             Water Supply II                          22.0       22.0
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                  25.0
923-PH   1979                             Population II                            40.0       40.0
1772-PH/b 1980                             Samar Island Rural Devel.        27.0               27.0
1786-PH/b 1980                             Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)    38.0                  38.0
1809-PH/b 1980                            liedium-Scale Irrigation          71.0               71.0
1814-PH/b 1980                             Manila Sewerage & Sanitation  63.0                  63.0
1815-PHi/b 1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)  12.0                  12.0
Total                                                                2,181.9  122.2   1,333.3
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            162.3
Total now outstanding                                                2,019.6  122.2
Amount sold                                               24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        16.0           8.3      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              2,011.3  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                    1.243.8   89.5   1,333.3
/a  Balance of $28,207.60 to be disbursed in April/Hay 1980.
lb Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 30 -             Page 2 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1980
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.:O     4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5      -       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial              15.0       -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2      -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0      -       7.0
Corporation
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5      -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                       -        0.1      0.1
Total gross commitments                       77.1    16.7    93.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              34.0    12.3    46.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             43.1      4.4    47.5
Total Undisbursed                               1.8      -       1.8



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Project funds have been fully committed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September 1980 on completion of a warehouse con-
struction project, now about 40% complete. The repayment arrears situation
has improved with arrears of principal and interest amounting to 10% of
the loans outstanding. Half of the arrears are less than 12 months old.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works. Further delays were caused by a typhoon in
1978 which damaged some of the project area. Completion is now planned for
1980 - a two-year delay in the original schedule. Due to increased costs, a
reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction, the internal rate of
return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the appraisal estimate of
17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 70% of project
works completed. Due to initial delays and recent shortages of fuel and
cement, the project is likely to be completed by June 1982. The total project
area is likely to be reduced by about 20%, mainly due to elimination of areas
subject to deep flooding by the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. The project
cost has increased from $34 million at appraisal to about $44.1 million, with
the result that the economic rate of return will be reduced from 15% at
appraisal to about 10%.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Physical implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
is about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays in contract award and
recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies, construction has slowed
down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation system contract has been
awarded, progress is expected to improve. The road subproject is about 68%
complete. Disbursements are in line with physical projects, with 50% of the
loan amount allocated for road works disbursed.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project: $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Consultants' work on engineering and economic evaluation studies
of the proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by
local contract and force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of
canals, drains and access roads are progressing well, and the project is
about 70% complete. The water management training is continuing satis-
factorily. A delay in the contract award for improvements to the project
diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to exceed appraisal
estimates, with subloans for beef production development lagging behind.
The project's list of goods has been amended to allow for this fact. Funds
for the project's nutrition research funds are unlikely to be used, due to
difficulties in recruitment of consultants. A revised component will be
included in the next project. The establishment of the monitoring and
evaluation system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory
equipment for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Project funds
have been fully committed, and the loan should be fully disbursed by
mid-1980. Repayments of many of DBP's borrowers under the project are still
under grace, but a build-up of interest arrears is beginning to emerge.
The Bank has assisted DBP with the development of an intensive action-
oriented collection program which will be further reinforced under the
proposed Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project. Thanks to government
approval of increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its
staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure
have been instituted and other organizational developments are under
consideration.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project: $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Even though progress has improved
since the contracts were awarded, and work is now proceeding satisfactorily,
the project is about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the investment
climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to the
smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand for
subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by prospective
applicants as slow p-^ocessing of subloans by DBP. The Bank has, in
consultation with DBI, developed a list of detailed recommendations on actioL
to be taken. Recently, the Bank approved various amendments to broaden the
scope of the project for the loan to become more responsive to current needs
and to speed up disbursements. New proposals have recently been made for the
Grains Losses Study which represent a change in the previously agreed terms of
reference and reflect the change in focus caused by the Philippines currently
achieving a rice surplus situation.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978 and the loan was fully committed in August 1979.



-34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 28% compared with appraisal
estimates of 34%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Nine of
the 24 contracts for civil works have failed, and NIA has taken over eight of
them for completion by force account. With the equipment now on hand, NIA is
capable of completing this work satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After two and a half years of project implementation, commitments
and disbursements are roughly one-half of appraisal estimates. The Central
Bank has reassessed the project and as a result new categories of lending
(for medium-size trucks, tree crops and working capital), and a new set of
financial intermediaries (private development banks) have been included in
the project. Although these should accelerate implementation, it is
tentatively estimated that the completion date will be delayed by about 18
months. A better idea of eventual performance will be obtained by late summer
of 1980, when the above changes, which were introduced in late February 1980
will have been effective for six months.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to staffing
and design problems. Contracts for drainage works in Leyte are to be
awarded shortly, and those for the Abulog works have already been awarded.
Progress is now expected to proceed satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27. 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory overall progress is being maintained with infra-
structure and in work towards appropriate technical packages in agriculture.
Problems associated with legitimatizing land holdings are now better
understood by concerned authorities. Some initial steps toward resolving them
have now been taken. Feasibility studies towards a forward program is well
underway, and have been expanded to include policy studies on the future use
of, or developments within, unalienated lands in general.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project: $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Operations have started in all project components except research,
which is expected to begin early in 1980.. However, progress has been lagging
behind schedule. In order to stimulate the slow smallholder enrollment rate
in the treefarming component, DBP eased the collateral terms and application
procedures for treefarm subloans. Insufficiency of government funds has
delayed the other components to varying degrees, particularly the Abra pine
plantation component for which vehicles have still not been been acquired. A
gradual improvement of this situation is expected, although funding could
continue to be a problem in 1980. Disbursements have started at a moderate
rate.
Loan No. 1526      Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project equipment has been procured ahead of schedule and has
started to arrive at the project sites. Topographic surveys and mapping have
been completed for about 80% of the project area and design of project works
is under way. Construction work has started and is primarily devoted to
service roads and structures along main and secondary canals. A new Project
Manager and his Assistant are providing excellent leadership in getting the
project moving. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978: Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Construction of about
70 km of roads has started and about 50% of the design work on the remaining
680 km has been completed.  While construction of the road component is
behind schedule, overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor's operations. Diver-
sion through tunnel 2 was completed in December 1979, and tunnel 1 was due to
be opened for diversion by end-April 1980. Excavation on the main contract is
ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay with the batching plant.



- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A Management Committee has been created under the Chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture, and appropriate subcommittees established.
Nominations have been approved by the President for 12 MOA Regional Directors,
and 24 Assistant Directors. The first staff appointments have been
contracted. Allocation of 500 proposed agricultural centers has been made to
all 75 Provinces and negotiations on site ownership and registration are in
progress. The first year's vehicle allotment is being procured, including
about 1,000 motorcycles with sidecars which will be purchased by extension
workers under the project's newly estabished special vehicle loan fund.
Training is well under way. The first consultancy, to establish project
monitoring and evaluation procedures within BAEx is about to begin. The
appointment of a second consultant should be contracted soon. Pilot areas
have been selected in all 12 regions of the Philippines for introduction of
the "training and visit" extension system, and specialized training of the
district agricultural extension supervisors, who will administer the pilot
areas, has been completed. Four pilot areas are operational, and the
remaining eight will be as soon as the benchmark agroeconomic surveys are
completed in 1980.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Force account construction started in early 1980. There have been
some delays in awarding major construction contracts. However, NIA expects
contractors to begin work in April/May 1980, and completion is still expected,
as scheduled, by end-1982.
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Since the loan became effective, the Land Bank has improved internal
procedures and strengthened field operations, although staffing is still below
required strength. Lending under the project for agricultural term credit
has commenced in most subcomponents, although loan disbursement has been very
slow. No disbursements have been made for infrastructure improvements due to
difficulties with the Government's budgetary procedures which are currently
in the process of being resolved. The trend in implementation is improving,
although progress will be slower than expected in the foreseeable future.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                        Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; proposed Date of Effectiveness:
June 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1809-PH Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.-0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and is expected to be
declared effective on June 26, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978. At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension. The Closing Date of the loan has recently been extended
to July 15, 1980 to cover civil works contract guarantee retention monies
and the costs of the next ports project feasibility study. The latest
project cost estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been overcome. Further major problems are
not anticipated, and the project is expected to be completed by May 1980,
except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for completion in



- 38 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
August 1980. This represents a delay of about 3 years, with a new Closing
Date of June 30, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at about $189
million, an increase of about 47% over the original appraisal estimate, due
primarily to inflation and the serious time delays that have been experienced
throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee
payments. About 50% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications
covering the balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness:  March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 30% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts, with
7 out of 14 contracts terminated due to unsatisfactory performance by the
contractors. Two new contracts have been awarded and bidding is underway
for the remainder. As a consequence, delays and costs higher than the
original bids are expected. Contracts for the improvenent of minor roads
have been awarded but Presidential approval is being awaited for some of them
before work can begin. After substantial initial delays, the road maintenance
and restoration programs are now making satisfactory progress. All 28
workshop contracts have been awarded but work has only begun on 8 of them,
awaiting release of budgetary funds for the rest. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery is virtually complete.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in November
1979. Training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980. Overall
project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates, but project
completion is likely to be delayed until late 1982, more than 24 months later
than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the late start of some
critical activities and to the serious delays in the execution of some of the
road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 : Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has made a slow start, but prequalification of contrac-
tors for the road construction works is underway, utilizing new procedures
agreed during loan negotiations. Proposals for the technical assistance to



- 39-                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
MPH and MLGCD have been received from the short-listed consulting firms and
evaluation is in process. A short-list of prospective consulting firms for
the design and construction supervision of workshops has been -repared and
proposals requested. Preparatory work for the continuation of the road
maintenance and road restoration programs begun under the Third Highway
Project (Loan 1353-PH) has begun. Selection of technical assistance
consultants to MPWTC/NEDA for the continuation of the transport planning
advisory services, begun under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in
process. Land acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way.
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has established an autonomous textbook agency to manage
book development, production, and distribution for public elementary and
secondary schools. It includes the writing of 75 textbook titles and
production of 27 million textbooks. Good progress has been made towards
achieving the key institution-building feature of the project. Implementation
is proceeding well with minimal delays in textbook publishing/printing and
teacher training. About 18 million textbooks have been produced and
distributed. Delays are greatest in construction of the central warehouse
complex, which is about 20 months behind schedule. Project costs are close to
appraisal estimates, and disbursements are about 69% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about one year behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures have been taken by the Govern-
ment and the delays arrested. Enrollment projections and staff development
programs show that the project is making steady progress towards its
development impact targets. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates,
but disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the
implementation delays.



- 40 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached the two selected pilot areas on schedule
(Pangasinan and Leyte Provinces). CET started another experimental
utilization in Mindanao in late 1979. In order to provide information on the
desirability of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes
a substantial evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly and is
expected to be completed in the mid-1980s.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
June 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 30, 1980. A monitoring and evaluation unit has
been established within EDPITAF and the collection of base line data is in
progress. A review of combined World Bank and bilateral sources assistance
shows that the fishery technical assistance program is well coordinated and
mutually complementary.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 57% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 95% of the infrastructure and
1,480 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services component are
complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have now been awarded.
The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many initial diffi-
culties overcome and lessons learned which should hasten implementation of the
remainder of the project.
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project: $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Contracts have been awarded in all six Water Districts for distri-
bution networks, pumping stations and reservoirs. The scope of subprojects
was revised by LWUA and approved by communities in public hearings.



- 41 -                       ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Difficulties in contracting local firms for drilling have resulted in delays
in the preparation of feasibility studies in remote areas. LWUA has been
requested to present a plan for assistance to Water Districts in
institution-building, and proposing solutions to the scarcity of local well
drilling contractors.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met.
Because of the overall impact of inflationary pressures resulting from recent
oil increases, the increase in water rates of P 0.25 per cubic meter ori-
ginally scheduled for October 1979 has been postponed to about mid-1980.
MWSS now expects to achieve a rate of return of 5% on net revalued fixed
assets in 1981 instead of 1980.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of
production.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants to assist LWUA in the preparation of feasibility
studies for the first group of 20 cities have been hired. A new project
manager was appointed and LWUA is actively promoting the creation of new
Water Districts. Work has started on the development of a financial
planning and control system.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                          Page 14 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. The Closing Date of the loan has been postponed from December 31,
1979 to June 30, 1980 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. As of
the end of December 1979, the undisbursed funds amounted to $1.0 million.
Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 1981, more than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the
project is estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the
original estimate ($92 million). The Closing Date of the loan has been
postponed from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to al.ow additional time for
completion of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The revised foreign exchange component is estimated at $44.4
million, compared with the original estimate of $58.0 million. Procurement
has been slow, with the result that disbursements have been behind schedule.
The Bank waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978 and the Government
has requested that this be repeated for 1979. NPC's financial performance was
reviewed by the Bank during the energy sector review in April/May 1980. In
the meantime, the Government authorized a 31% power rate increase effective
February 1980, and NPC expects to meet the covenanted 8% rate of return in
1980. Plans for establishing a training center, which was to be financed by
the Bank, have been deferred.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Execution of the project is now improving, after initial delays in
tender document preparation and procurement. Following reorganization of



- 43 -                     ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
NEA's management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank project materials
were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late 1979 following
receipt of project materials, and first disbursements are expecced before
June 1980. Bid documents for the third and last package of materials have
been prepared, and contract awards are expected in September 1980. NEA's
financial performance in 1978 and 1979 was satisfactory, and steps are being
taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial performance of
the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the Government's finan-
cial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been fully
drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial projects.
DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a
pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the loan is almost fully
disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The DBP ($16.7 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan have been
fully disbursed. The Rural Industrial Cooperative Program ($0.6 million)
which is being implemented by the National Electrification Administration is
facing management and staffing problems because of its experimental nature.
Disbursements on this component have been slow. The Small Business Advisory
Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry has been
implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.



- 44 -                         ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan were intended to be used by DBP to finance
large-, medium- and small-scale industries. Commitments of funds, which were
initially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the
industrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978 and 1979. The loan has since
been fully committed by DBP for subprojects. Disbursement is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514     Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of March 31, 1980 commitments under
the loan amounted to $18.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555     Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The actual pace of commitment of the loan was much faster than
anticipated during loan appraisal, and the loan has since been fully committed
by PISO. As of March 31, 1980, disbursements amounted to $10.5 million.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572     Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Out of the total loan of $80 million, $50 million is earmarked for
financing large industry and $29.7 million for small-scale industry projects
and a small portion ($0.3 million) for technical assistance. Commitments for
subprojects under the large industry component amounted to $43.5 million as of
March 31, 1980. In addition, as of the same date the small and medium
industry and the technical assistance components had been disbursed to the
extent of $7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.



- 45 -                         ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose $24.5
million was provided under the loan. In the final quarter of 1980, IGLF
started making commitments under the loan. Loan utilization is now
progressing well. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
As of March 1980, 193 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 12 were under construction and 14 had not been started.
Contractors have completed about 92% of all construction work. During the
period January to October 1979, many project components experienced
implementation delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds.
While this problem TTas partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation
of funds it is like.y that there will be a 6- to 12-month delay in project
completion. Following the disbanding on December 31, 1979, of the
administration unit for this project, a Project Coordinator was appointed for
both this and the second project. This action is expected to speed up
significantly the completion of this first project. In January 1979 the
project was amended to include financing of additional vehicles and equipment
for service delivery; training; information, education and communication
campaigns; and studies in preparation for the second population project. The
amended total project cost is $40 million. The total cost estimate had
decreased from the estimate at appraisal, due mainly to price increases not
materializing as forecast. The management situation in the Commission on
Population (POPCOM) is improving and a functional analysis of the Ministry of
Health is completed. The recommendations of this study are being considered
to strengthen the integrated health/nutrition/family planning programs.



- 46 -                       ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
ting agencies obtained sufficient GOP budget allocation for CY1980 and have
started several significant activities under this project. Most of the sites
for facilities under Part A of the projects have been acquired, a new con-
struction unit has been established to monitor and coordinate all civil works
under the project. Most of the contracts for operational research and pro-
duction of communication materials have been finalized. The Ministry of
Health is streamlining the project management activities into its line
functions. A national task force is engaged in developing the operational
policies, guidelines and manuals for implementation of Primary Health Care
Program and two independent studies to strengthen the finance/accounts manage-
ment and integrated health/population/nutrition management information system
are underway. Though due to delayed release of GOP funds implementation is
slightly behind the schedule, the overall progress is satisfactory.



- 47 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12 months
(b) The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance
of consultants.
(c) Dates of first presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission
to consider the project: November 1978 and March 1979,
respectively.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: October 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 22, 1980
(f) planned date of effectiveness: October, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. The Borrower would:
(a) conclude, by December 31, 1980, Memoranda of Agreement, satis-
factory to the Bank, between MPH, MLGCD, MOF and MOB defining
responsibility for the construction and improvement of rural
roads, and budgetary and administrative arrangements for such
roads, and carry out the Memoranda of Agreement in accordance
with a timetable and programs satisfactory to the Bank (para. 43);
(b) carry out organizational and management changes in MLGCD and the
provinces in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 59);
(c) establish a training unit within MLGCD and institute, in consul-
tation with the Bank, a training evaluation system in MLGCD's
training unit, to appraise and monitor the effectiveness of the
manpower development and training programs on a continuous basis
(para. 62);



- 48 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) institute an action program, with particular emphasis on staffing
and institutional improvements, for the implementation, by MLGCD
and the provinces, of project components associated with rural
roads (para. 66);
(e) arrange for timely acquisition of land for right-of-way for each
road section and workshop site prior to awarding construction
contracts (para. 66);
(f) cause MLGCD and the project provinces to implement a rural roads
maintenance program in accordance with a general timetable of
physical targets and budgetary allocations and administrative
improvements as agreed with the Bank (para. 66);
(g) agree on cost-sharing arrangements between the national and
provincial governments for the improvement of rural roads
(para. 68); and
(h) institute an improved system, satisfactory to the Bank, for
evaluation of prequalification applications for civil works
contracts (para. 69).
2.        An additional condition of disbursement would be that withdrawals
would not be made for rural road improvement contracts for each of the three
years from January 1, 1981 to December 31, 1983, until the Bank has approved
the annual rural road improvement program for the following year (para. 70).
3.        An additional condition of effectiveness would be agreement between
the Borrower and the Bank on satisfactory memoranda of agreement between
the Ministries of Finance, Budget, Public Highways, and Local Government
and Community Development defining responsibilities for construction and
improvement of national and local roads, and budgetary and administrative
responsibilities for such roads (para. 43).



-'                                  ~~~~~~PHiIUPPINES
i0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                         I~~~~~~~~                           RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROJECTW
'"~~~~~~"' "~~~~~~~~~~~'                                          1 ~~~~~~PRESENT PROJECT
Proj-ct proi-om
PRonrcml hori.ridoi
069100 1    640306 ~~~~~~~~~~                     53113~SU                                                         Few i  PO lity OOOdies attd/or
REWN T  REMN VM                                                                           -------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____    dolor od   9roo4p,1h..y roNotEoro-  731 PH
I Ab,.                      40  EoOtero SOorr-                                                          ,                       RVIU mq HP OJECT                   11
2 Rengoet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-P 7                                            rra                               0, H,gh"y P,ect.Loott 950 PH
3   lootS -o                41  Scryber soon                                                                       /    ---                                           TrOd Highroy~             13t~ltt  50 PH
3        Nloct. i           43  SOrror,1 SO-A                                                       ~           1j                   A-e   -lorIs3ropcMWH)            Forirtl Highepor PoleetLoo,r 161 P'H
4    O iaUr,                44  SolOrr LPo                                                          r                                R.gio-fn b%oo  ooroErlcpr(P
6  ttONtirlPocic             446010th   LeY /e
7  Poognoflor 4-6 REION IX/                                                                                 JO                       Enisfirg mjoir -ods
6E61010 it                 46  S.r                                                            .1                                    Rolo
5BaRtones                   47  T-ot 70ni 40w'                                                                                        rrrrao,  iprsi                           o       t       no      to    r
90 CfOOrO49  Zo.rbooogn                            S.
IS  30900  49  zro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oorigo ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                OrrOOOtrRt,t    m 19~uI 
2K.IliPg. ApOyoo            90Aor  dot Noote                                                                                                                                          Mies""'960r9.olbrdrralr
I3N ... r V-ioty             9i Ato-n  de1 S.,t                          19
14  .0no,10                  52  8.1kidrros
REGION 00                  93  Corri4w.o
1S Battan                   34  M,Ek tsrrrin cdorito            V    2
36  8t1002                   S5  $isIsar    Orierlamw~4
t7  We. E610  56  S-li"a16W,->Tj
21I First RaglSstrict        40  54rr,Rt;rlrbao                                                                                 A AWESNOT
3    e- RooooD9egitrt       RI  SnrRow rtOSul             024
'3  TttdBea.0Ptrlict          990             
24  F.., tih 844otDot ic       2   arnoo44Noro
REGIO0N3v                   63  Laro- dol So,
25  Al,oy                    604  moaritJ do"
P6  Cacamrimo~s og            65  Swtal CntnRemn
97  Oooiorre- Sur           :A%    =       afosI6070,S
98  Cnatodnrno90900-
39MoobOto                   67  6030' 5                                 rmo .,                     MA /  U01
RES065N26                  69L600iPpo                                                               roye 
31  AbbeI                    TO  Mworli3qoo
32  Aor3npoo.                74 mmoeior OOadwi                                               72t6/
53  Canto                    72  trirrdoro Crl00rR
34 Iloilo                         Fo3 o P010000S-
36 ROW74Rsooro0
la37 Cebiu
36 NSitidita.
39 S.Wfjo,\.E/cS-                                                                                                                                                   ~4                                t
ant.0.                                                                                                                                                                00*
00           rprr/                                Al                        I      &
060k iOAP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                              O                          'YP$I
~~~~52~~~~~~~ <n~~~~~~~~~ 0   000,01 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ 85
1-- 
47
Ton -P2                                                                                                        tt                                          0



