Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/22/2009 
Report No.:  AC4463
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Niger 
Project ID:  P115436 
Project Name:  NIGER - EFA/FTI PROGRAM 
Task Team Leader:  Adama Ouedraogo 
Estimated Appraisal Date: July 21, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: July 31, 2009 
Managing Unit:  AFTED 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Primary education (95%);Public administration- Education (5%) 
Theme:  Education for all (80%);Gender (20%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
EFA-FTI Education Program Development Fund 
8.00
8.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Project Development Objectives: The development objective of the Basic Education 
Support Project (FTI-BESP) is to contribute to the implementation of the Education 
Sector Program by improving access to better quality primary education. In order to 
achieve this objective, the project will focus on the three components to: a) increase 
access and equity in primary education; b) improve quality in primary education; and c) 
strengthen capacity of the Ministry of Education (MoE), and decentralized entities.   
 
3. Project Description 
In order to achieve the objective, the FTI-BESP will focus on the following components.  
 
Component 1: Increased access and equity in primary education (US$ 5.65 million). 
This component will support: (i) Construction and equipment of 400 classrooms and 
latrines mainly in rural areas; (ii) Organization of information campaigns to increase 
awareness in the population of the benefits of girls education in liaison with a promotion 
of a proximity sensitizing which showed satisfactory results during the first phase of the 
program; and (iii) Provision of awards to promising students at the regional level.  
 
Page  2
Component 2: Improved Quality in primary education (US$ 1.58 million). This 
component will support: (i) the publication and distribution of about 412,260 textbooks 
and 546,000 other reading materials (booklets); (ii) development and implementation of a 
pre-service and in-service teacher and inspector training program to update teachers and 
inspectors competencies; and (iii) Implementation of a pilot consisting of the provision of 
micro-grants to School Management Committees for the financing of learning tool kits. 
Increased provision of learning materials through decentralization of procurement of 
learning to COGES will also help improve quality.  
 
Component 3: Strengthening the management capacity of the central and local levels 
(US$ 0.77 million). This component will support: (i) strengthening the capacity of School 
Management Committees (COGES) and (ii) Strengthening the capacity of the MoE in 
critical areas in liaison with the PDDE (Education Sector Ten-year Program) training 
Plan.  
 
For the extent of OP 4.12 applicability related to the project and mitigation measures, 
see section II:  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will have activities countrywide, in both rural and urban areas.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (AFTCS) 
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental Impact: 
The Project potential negative environmental and social 
impacts will mostly result from the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructures 
(schools; water points, sanitation facilities) that might lead to disruptions of the 
Page  3
environment, increased solid and liquid wastes generation. In addition, the potential use 
of quarries for building materials may cause negative environmental impacts which will 
require restoration after use. Environmental impacts such as: soil erosion, soil 
degradation, increase in solid and liquid wastes, loss of vegetation are expected to occur 
mainly during the settling of these infrastructures and establishment of building sites as 
well as during the exploitation of quarries for building materials. To address these 
negative impacts, the process of selection proposed in the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) will be carried out so that the biophysical and socio- 
economic aspects of the project areas are taken into account, and consequently, that 
mitigation measures will be implemented. In this context, subprojects-specific 
EIAs/EMPs will be developed intending to ensure efficient environmental management 
of the Project. Provisions of the updated ESMP will be included in the project 
Implementation Manual (PIM).  
 
Involuntary Resettlement:  
 
The RPF provides the main principles governing the resettlement operations in the 
framework of the project. In close collaboration with project management, communes 
will develop a Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) following the guidelines of the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, if a project for the construction of classrooms, houses, 
latrines and water points requires some resettlement operations.  Once completed, 
subproject-specific safeguard instruments will be reviewed, approved and disclosed prior 
to investment.  
 
The Project will ensure that dissemination of information and knowledge transfer 
towards the communes is undertaken. The RAPs are implemented at the same time as the 
other studies (civil engineering, socio-economic and environmental studies, etc.) in order 
to mainstream social aspects. If the project activities will conduct to the preparation of 
RAPs, the communes is approved in the portfolio of funding programs, the authorities 
will go to the contracting stage of the technical studies.  
 
To enable project implementers to mitigate social impacts due to potential population 
displacements, an RPF has been updated and prepared by the Recipipent, which outlines 
the principles and procedures to be followed in such events.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Future activities for these areas are not known at this time.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Recipient has reasonable environmental and social safeguard capacity, for having 
implementing numerous Bank-funded projects in almost all sectors.  Nonetheless, the 
project will support capacity strengthening measures identified in the updated ESMF and 
Page  4
RPF, which were cleared and re-disclosed in-country and at Bank InfoShop in June 23 
2009.   Both frameworks identify procedures to be followed during the planning, design 
and construction phase of project activities, together with measures to mitigate and 
monitor such impacts, including a screening process for sub-projects; setting  criteria for 
triggering specific Environmental Assessments (EAs) and specific Resettlement Action 
Plans (RAPs).  
 
To ensure that environmental and social aspects in Project activities are effectively 
taken into account, it was proposed to identify and train Regional Environment Focal 
Points (PFE) within Education Regional Directorate (DREN), DIES (School Construction 
and Equipment Directorate) in environmental assessment. The main institutions with key 
roles and responsibilities for environmental and social management are: (i) for the 
implementation of environmental measures: the implementation of the project 
environmental management measures will be carried out by engineering and design 
departments of DIES that will work jointly with private contractors and Government 
technical services. Under the general responsibility of the MoE, consultants in charge of 
sub-project design will be responsible for carrying out the EIA studies and drafting the 
infrastructures maintenance handbooks. In this context, the MoE will ensure that all 
bidding documents will include environmental and social clauses that the contractors will 
abide by during the construction phase. Sub-projects requiring special attention will be 
referred to the national environmental agency (BEEEI) as appropriate. In addition, 
greening the school environment (i.e. tree planting around the classrooms and teachers 
housing) will be part and parcel of sub-project; (ii) for civil works control and 
monitoring: under the general supervision of the BEEEI, the private contractors will be 
asked to implement the mitigation measures as indicated in the Environmental Guidelines 
for Contractors, including the rehabilitation of quarries used as sources o f building 
materials, the maintenance of the building sites, tree planting inside schools, etc.  
 
At the local level, the COGES, but also the Schools Parents# Associations (APE), will 
also take part in the monitoring. The COGES, the PFE/CDC and the DIES will be 
responsible for data-gathering in the field; and (iii) for supervision and monitoring: to 
ensure the efficiency of the recommended measures, it is important to carry out 
environmental monitoring of works. The coordination and the supervision of the 
implementation of the ESMF measures will be ensured by the DIES, in connection with 
the BEEEI from the Ministry of Environment. The mid-term environmental assessment 
aims to establish a complete overview of the real impacts of the subprojects, but also to 
assess the effectiveness of the mitigation measures realized during works. At the end of 
the program, a final assessment will be carried out, to learn the principal lessons on 
environmental management related to the implementation of project#s activities.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Both safeguard policy instruments (ESMF and RPF) were prepared by the Recipient, in 
line with national and World Bank policies. The preparation of the instruments involved 
relevant stakeholder groups in the education sector and other relevant public agencies. 
The consultation has also been broadened to other stakeholders, including, the private 
Page  5
sector, municipal workers and local communities, consistent with the approach adopted at 
projects inception.  The main objective is to devise an appropriate mitigation plan that is 
commensurate to the identified impacts. Future subproject-specific EIAs/EMPs and 
RAPs will be conducted following the same approach, in line with Bank and national 
safeguard policies. This participatory approach will be carried on throughout 
implementation, maintenance, supervision and evaluation of the project.  
 
Relevant provisions from the two set of safeguard documents will be reflected in Project 
Implementation Manual (PIM).   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/23/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/23/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/25/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
06/23/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/23/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
06/25/2009 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
Page  6
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Adama Ouedraogo 
07/21/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Amadou Konare 
06/23/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni 
06/23/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher J. Thomas 
07/22/2009 
Comments:   
