Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4858 
Project Name 
NIGER - EFA/FTI PROGRAM 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Primary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P115436 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF NIGER REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of National Education 
P.0 Box 1 1897 
Niger 
Tel: (227) 20.72.26.77 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
June 20, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
June 26, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
N.A: EFA-FTI Processing does not require the Board Approval 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1.1 Country Background 
Niger is a vast landlocked country with an estimated population of 14 million, the majority of 
whom live along a narrow band of arable land on the 
country’s southern border with Nigeria / 
Benin. The economy is dominated by agricultural activity, including rearing livestock, mining 
(uranium), and informal trading activities. In 2008, Niger was ranked 174 out of 179 countries on 
the UNDP's Human Development Index. Sixty-one percent of Niger’s population lives in 
extreme poverty on less than a dollar a day and the average per capita income is estimated at 
$330 for 2008.  Social indicators are low, with an infant mortality rate of 81 per 1,000 live births, 
life expectancy of 56.2 years, a literacy rate of 29.8% in 2006, and gross primary school 
enrollment rates of 62% in 20081. GDP growth has been highly volatile but low on average, 
outpaced by the population growth rate of 3.4% in 2008. GDP growth is estimated at 9.5 percent 
for 2008 (against 3.3% in 2007 and 5.2% in 2006, after reaching 7.4% in 2005), reflecting the 
strong performance of the agriculture sector (about 26% growth in real terms) following its 
recovery from the 2004 drought which resulted in a GDP growth of -0.8% in that year).  In 2005, 
the population faced a severe food crisis with a 12% decline in agricultural production due to the 
2004 drought.  
 
Poverty Reduction and Social Development as a key part of the Government’s Economic 
Development Strategy
.
The PRSP presents a coherent and results-oriented strategic framework 
that rests on four main pillars: (i) macroeconomic and financial stability; (ii) development of 
productive sectors, especially in rural areas (iii) Improvement in access for the poor to quality 
social services; (iv) strengthening of institutional and individual capacity, within and outside 
1
Preliminary estimates 
Page  2
government, as well as at the central and local levels. The Government’s 2007 Second Poverty 
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), projects maintaining real GDP growth rate of 7% annually to 
reach the MDGs. However, the global economic crisis could have a serious impact on traditional 
agriculture and livestock, which could decrease demand substantially in these sectors, and also 
affect informal trade activities, hence undermining Niger’s growth prospects. In response to 
these risks, the Government has been strengthening its debt management capacity so that it can 
keep its debt levels sustainable. 
 
1.2. Education Sector Background  
The implementation of the first phase of the education program has been satisfactory in terms of 
quantity. Over the last years, Niger has successfully increased access to primary education; gross 
enrollment rate increased from 37% in 2000 to 62% in 2007/2008. Notwithstanding these 
remarkable quantitative achievements, results from several diagnostic studies have helped the 
Government of Niger to identify the main issues facing the education system on both the supply 
and demand sides as described below.  
 
Poor coverage with significant disparities
.
With inadequate coverage resulting in limited and 
inequitable access to basic education, Niger ranks among the countries with the lowest 
participation rate in primary education coupled with marked disparities between geographic 
zones, urban and rural areas. In urban areas, three out of four children enroll in grade 1 of 
primary school compared with only one out of five in rural areas where 83 % of the school-aged 
population resides. These patterns are also reflected by region where the enrollment ratio ranges 
from about 46% in Diffa to 107 % in Niamey. In terms of gender parity available data show a 
persistent gap between the girls’ GER and boys’. Reasons for this low level of participation in 
primary education include factors on both the supply and demand sides.  
 
Supply issues
.
On the supply side, the bulk of primary education is provided by the Government; 
private schools account for only an estimated 4% of enrollment. In 2007/2008, 35% of 
classrooms were multi-grade (mostly concentrated in rural areas) resulting from the shortage of 
classrooms. Consequently in response to the shortage of public provision of schools, 
communities build schools in very remote areas with the support of international NGOs. School 
attendance is a function of availability of schools, a study shows that in three geographical zones 
(Dosso, Diffa and Mirriah), 44% of school-aged children are enrolled where classrooms are 
available in the village, compared with 20% of children with a school in an adjoining village. 
There are no school enrollments in villages that are not near a school. About 40% of villages 
have no school nearby; therefore there are almost no enrollments. In rural areas only 16% of 
public schools offer the full six years of education and 41% of total classrooms are in “straw 
huts”. Moreover, the number of teachers is inadequate and the proportion of qualified teachers is 
very small compared to the number required. Most of teachers are concentrated in the big cities 
mainly in Niamey.  To facilitate appointments in the remote areas, which have a very high 
teacher turnover rate, significant incentives will be provided, including a salary premium that 
could benefit many the teachers. Consequently, increase in access to school would be addressed 
through: increased availability of (i) schools with a complete cycle, (ii) teaching and learning 
materials, and (iii) qualified teachers. 
 
Page  3
Demand issues
.
Demand for education is affected by the cost of education to households, 
particularly with high levels of poverty in Niger, combined with perceptions of the value of 
education among parents and students. Supply side measures only will therefore not be sufficient 
for Niger to reach the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) of universal completion of 
primary education, nor its medium term objective of 90% completion by 2012. The Ministry of 
Education (MoE) estimates that 12% of total public expenditure on primary education represents 
family direct expenditure. This corresponds to an estimated 4,300 FCFA per student, or about 
3% of GDP per capita, and much more for poor families with both lower levels of income and 
larger average family size.  Opportunity costs are also high, particularly in rural areas where 
primary school aged children work between 3 to 4 hours a day for the family. School attendance 
for rural children would result in a 60-66% reduction in household production due to the loss the 
contribution of the children. Estimates from Dosso, Diffa and Mirriah which indicate that even 
when a school is available in the village, about 42% of boys and 64% of girls do not attend 
provide evidence about demand constraints on education. 
 
Poor quality of education
.
Learning achievement is also low: 26.5% and 16.6% of grade 4 
students reached acceptable skill levels both in math and reading in 2007. The internal efficiency 
of the system is also low with high drop-out and repetition rates. In primary schools, the average 
repetition rate is 23.4% for the sixth grade, and the drop-out rate for first grade reached 10.4% in 
2006/2007. The completion rate remains low at 45.8% reflecting low survival rates. Out of a 
cohort of 100 students entering grade 1, only about 70 students reach grade 6. The poor quality 
of education is explained by a combination of factors including:  (i) lack of qualified teachers; 
(ii) inadequate pre-service and in-service teacher training; and (iii) limited supply of pedagogical 
materials and school supplies, because of centralized procurement in Niamey and an inefficient 
distribution system that results in very tardy delivery in classes, particularly for rural areas which 
receive their grants often at the end of school year.  
 
Financing constraints
.
Currently the education sector absorbs 21% of the country’s fiscal 
revenue (in 2007) and 4% of the GDP, while the school-age population is growing at 3.3% per 
year, suggesting that more investment is needed for the sector. However the education budget 
allocation prioritizes the primary level that receives more than 60% of the total sector budget. 
Financial contribution of other stakeholders (NGOs, local institutions, and parents) to the 
functioning of the system, estimated at 12%, represents an important share of the sector 
spending. 
 
Limited organizational capacity and weak management of the system.
 Further action is 
needed to ensure greater decentralization of responsibilities for implementation of the program.  
Increased transfer of responsibilities to decentralized entities will, have a strong added value in 
terms of efficiency, timing and increased certainty that targets will be achieved.  However, 
despite improvements in institutional capacity during the first phase of implementation, the MoE 
continues to carry out activities at the central level which could be more effectively done by 
decentralized entities.  For example, experience shows that School Management Committees 
(COGES) are capable of implementing activities in the school action plan efficiently. 
 
Page  4
2. Objectives 
 
The overall objective of the FTI-Basic Education Support Project (FTI-BESP) is to contribute to 
the
 implementation of Niger’s ESP by improving access to better quality education. In order to 
achieve this objective, the project will focus on the following tree specific objectives:  
 
(i) 
Increase access and equity in primary education;  
(ii) 
Improve quality in primary education; and  
(iii)  
Strengthen the capacity of the MoE, and decentralized entities. 
 
The FTI-BESP will use the overall indicators of the program to track progress on the ten-year 
sector program, and will use the specific indicators mentioned below to track the attainment of 
the objectives for the grant.    
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The main objective of the Fast Track Initiative (FTI) is to support the global compact for 
development for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) in education. 
Niger has a sound and credible plan for reaching MDG, with a specific focus on the goal of 
Universal Primary Education. 
 
The Catalytic Fund Grant reflects the donor community’s commitment to implement Niger’s 
PRSP II, particularly to support the development of human resources, expand basic services, and 
to improve access to education, as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and in the 
Ten Year Education Sector Program. In addition, the main objective of the CAS for FY08-11 is 
to support the Government in the implementation of the PRSP II, which rests on seven pillars: (i) 
Search for strong, diversified, sustainable and job-creating growth; (ii) Equitable access to 
quality social services; (iii) Control of population growth; (iv) Reduction of inequalities and 
strengthening of social security of the vulnerable groups; (v) Infrastructure development; (vi) 
Promotion of good governance; and (vii) Effective implementation of the strategy.  
 
The Basic Education Support Project will help the Niger Government achieve the objective of 
the ESP of Universal Primary Education (UPE) in 2015.  The proposal from Niger is based on 
the second phase of the Government’s ten-year program for the sector (2003-2013).  The second 
phase of Niger’s ESP was formally re-endorsed for the FTI by the local donor group in 
December 2008.  Following this, a country program document requesting support from the 
Catalytic Fund was prepared by the Government and submitted to the local donor group, which 
found it satisfactory. On the basis of the Government’s application, the EFA-FTI Catalytic Fund 
Strategy Committee approved a grant of US$8 million for the period 2008-2010. 
 
4. Description 
 
Program and Project Development Objectives (PDO) and key indicators 
 
Page  5
Program Development Objectives
:
The overall objective of the Education Sector Program 
(ESP) in Niger is to achieve universal access to primary education by 2015. The ESP is a sector-
wide program that has four inter-related strategic axes: (i) expanding access to basic education; 
(ii) improving education quality and efficiency; (iii) improving the use of existing resources; (iv) 
building capacity and empowering local structures and communities. 
 
Project Development Objectives
 
The overall objective of the FTI-Basic Education Support Project (FTI-BESP) is to contribute to 
the
 implementation of Niger’s ESP by improving access to better quality education. 
 
The FTI-BESP will use the overall indicators of the program to track progress on the ten-year 
sector program, and will use the specific indicators mentioned below to track the attainment of 
the objectives for the project.    
 
In order to achieve the above objectives the FTI-BESP will focus on the following components.
 
Component 1
.
Increase access and equity in primary education.
 This component has two 
subcomponents to support access to primary education by financing a program to increase supply 
and demand. Actions planned to promote access through increased supply of education places 
consist mainly of: (i) classrooms construction and equipment; and (ii) the use of multigrade 
teaching classes in rural areas with dispersed population. The second subcomponent is related to 
activities aimed at stimulating the education demand, particularly for the girls’ education. 
 
(i)
 
School construction
.
To achieve universal primary education this activity seeks to build 
400 classrooms in rural areas to provide an increased capacity of for 16,000 children. All 
classrooms will be equipped with desks for pupils and teachers and storage closets for textbooks. 
Each school will have functional latrines. The project will support: (i) the construction of 345 
classrooms in bloc semi-finished of 3 classrooms in the 7 regions, mainly in the rural areas. The 
Government intends to build using this type of construction in Gradual construction modal in 
cement. The semi-finished classrooms called evolutionary structures are permanent structures 
comprising of 3 classrooms with in an entirely finished classroom at the center of the building 
and two unfinished classrooms in the two extremities of the building; (ii) the construction and 
equipment of 35 classrooms designed as follows: a single and large classroom which can 
accommodate children of different levels (multigrade).  This type of construction offers the 
advantage of a rational use of human resources (only one teacher) and infrastructures (only one 
class) in the areas where the enrolled school age children do not justify more than one classroom. 
The equipment (separate single desk and chair) is also different from the classic classroom that 
will allow and improve multigrade teaching and; (iii) the construction and equipment of 20 
classrooms to replace schools housed in straw huts in Niamey. All the construction will be built 
with concrete materials. The 
Direction des Infrastructures et Equipements Scolaires
 (DIES) will 
be responsible for the implementation of the school construction program. 
 
(ii)
 
Improve Girl’s Education
.
This subcomponent will support the following activities (i) 
organization of information campaigns to increase awareness in the population of the benefits of 
girls’ education in liaison with promotion of proximity sensitizing led by COGES which showed 
Page  6
satisfactory results during the first phase of the program; (ii) provision of awards to promising 
students at the regional level.  
 
Component 2
:
Improve the Quality in Primary Education. 
This component will support the 
following activities. 
 
(i)
 
Development and distribution of textbooks and school supplies
.
This sub-component will 
support the development and distribution of good quality textbooks and teachers’ guides for key 
subjects. To this end about 412,260 grammar books for grades 3, 4, 5 and 6 written by INDRAP 
will be supplied to the system and 546.000 other reading materials (booklets) and teacher’s 
guides, totaling 958.260 student textbooks and other reading materials (booklets). In addition, to 
ensure their timely availability, school supplies acquisition and distribution by COGES will be 
tested in an inspectorate totaling about 40.000 students.  
 
(ii)
 
Pre and in service teacher training
.
The sub component targets the pre-service and in-
service teacher training program to update competencies of about 3.150 teachers. In 2008, a new 
curriculum was launched in Teacher Training College (ENI) to take account of the introduction 
of new subjects, new pedagogical approach and the extension to two years the duration of the 
pre-service training. To ensure the coherence between the formal training taught in ENIs and the 
training courses organized in the supportive schools to ENI (
écoles annexes
), the teachers of 
these schools will be trained for 10 to 15 days. 
 
Component 3
:
Strengthen the management capacity of the MoE and decentralized entities 
and Communities. 
This component includes the following. 
 
(i)
 
Strengthen the Capacity of School Management Committees (COGES).
 During the first 
phase of the project, the COGES have played a key role in the execution of many activities under 
the program (school construction and maintenance, textbook management, school health and 
HIV/AIDS). To offer the maximum of support to this initiative, a central COGES Promotion 
Unit was established, linked to the regions through focal points. The central unit ensured a 
central strategy for the COGES, taking responsibility for any necessary legal measures. Building 
on the experience initiated under the Basic Education Project (P061209), the FTI-BESP would 
ensure the continuity of this initiative from which expectations are numerous, in terms of 
improving equitable access to education and promoting quality education by improving the 
overall school management. To this end, the FTI-BESP will support provision of training for 
about 5,700 members COGES in 23 departments where girls’ education lags behind compared to 
the national average to reinforce their capacities in micro programming system and sensitizing 
methods.  
 
(ii)
 
Strengthen the Capacity of the Ministry of Education in critical areas liaise with the 
PDDE training Plan.
 This subcomponent will support the following capacity’s reinforcement 
activities: (i) training of deconcentrated structures on Results Based Management; (ii) Training 
of a core team of trainers on strategic planning; (iii) training of a core team to undertake Public 
Expenditure Review on annual basis. 
 
Page  7
Expected outcomes indicators include the following: 
 
a)  
Increased access and equity in primary education
 
Primary school gross enrollment rate increased from 62% in 2007/2008 to 68% in 2010/2011 
Girl's share in primary school enrollment increased from 42.7% in 2007/2008 to 44% in 
2010/2011  
Primary school gross enrollment rate in rural areas increased from 58%% in 2007/2008 to 65% 
in 2010/2011. 
 
b) 
Improved quality in primary education
;
Completion rate of primary education increased from 45.8% in 2007/2008 to 48% by 2010/2011 
Pass rate increased from 83.6% in 2007/2008 to 86.6% by 2010/2011. 
 
c) 
Strengthening the management capacity at the central and local levels
 
Number of functioning school management committees increased from 10,162 in 2007/2008 to 
14,000 in 2010/2011. 
2
Sector Public expenditure reviews (PER) prepared by year 2011 
 
5. Financing 
 
The Basic Education Support Project (BESP) would be financed through a Specific Investment 
Loan (SIL) of US$8.0 million over a 2-year period (08/2009 to 08/2011) to support the 
Government’s Education Sector Program for the primary education. A SIL disbursed through a 
separate account appears to be the most appropriate instrument to implement the project in a 
timely fashion. . The Grant financed by Fast Track Catalytic Fund would be a follow up of the 
Basic Education Project (BEP) closing on June 30, 2009 and will use similar implementation 
arrangements. 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
EFA-FTI Education Program Development Fund 
8 
Total 8 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Bank discussed with the Government and other donor partners and agreed on the choice of 
the institutional and implementation arrangements. Overall, it was agreed that the design of the 
implementation mechanism of the FTI-BESP will build on the IDA-financed project mechanism 
which is fully aligned with the Education Sector Program implementation and coordination 
arrangements, with a view to strengthen a sector-wide approach as the program moves ahead. 
Consequently, institutional and implementation arrangements of the current follow up project 
will be similar to those established during the implementation of the former education project 
(IDA Credit Number 3812 NIR and grant Number H060 NIR). During the donor appraisal of the 
FTI-BESP, an institutional assessment was conducted which confirmed the viability of the 
arrangements. This project is structured with a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP). Even though the 
fiduciary mechanisms applicable to the proceeds of the Grant will be World Bank specific, other 
Page  8
aspects of project implementation, such as programming, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), 
and coordination procedures are articulated and closely linked to the Education Sector Program 
as in the previous project. 
 
Program coordination and project management.  
A
National Education Council (
Conseil National d’Education
), headed by the Minister of 
Education and comprised of, among others, the three Ministers in charge of Education et 
Vocational training, the Minister of finance, the heads of Regional Education Councils, the lead 
advisors to the Head of State and Prime Minister in current affairs, representatives of the 
Teachers' Union, the Parents' Association, NGOs, and donor partners has been established. This 
Council defines and monitors the overall sectoral policy orientations, ensures that program 
implementation follows the agreed-upon policy framework, determines the direction of any 
necessary revisions, and approves annual work plans and budgets. Within the Ministry of 
Education, a technical Unit in charge of M&E (
Unité de Suivi et d’Evaluation
)
linked to the 
General Secretary ensures day-to-day coordination of program implementation, as well as donor 
coordination. The regional education Council serves as the steering committee responsible for 
approving the regional plan of activities and for monitoring progress at the regional level. The 
latter will hold at least two meetings per year under the leadership of the Governor of the region. 
The project management is integrated within this overall coordination framework. 
 
School Management Committee (COGES) and school supplies acquisition 
From the central level, the DRFM would transfer to the Regional Directorate for Education 
(DREN) of Tahoua resources estimated for each school on the basis
 of
students’ numbers and the 
content of the kit per student. In liaison with the relevant inspectorate office, the DREN would 
then allocate the resources to each COGES. The school supplies purchase and distribution led by 
COGES would be planned by the management team of each COGES at the school level. The 
implementation plan and report would be presented and validated during COGES General 
Assembly and be posted at the school. A communication strategy and a specific M&E system 
would be worked out for the implementation of the school supplies acquisition. Detailed 
procedures for this activity are described in Annex 4 and in the Project implementation manual. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
There are major factors that will contribute to FTI-BESP sustainability. The FTI-BESP supports 
the Program proposed by the Government for the education sector for the period 2003-2013. 
There is a wide consensus and commitment to that program that is built on and further develops 
the policies for the education sector (
Programme Décennal de Développement de l’Education
,
2003-2013). During the preparation of the program, the Government conducted a macro-
financial framework with its projections and policy objectives as a base-case scenario; sensitivity 
analysis was conducted with different assumptions for the key indicators. On the financing side, 
sensitivity was analyzed with regard to the annual GDP growth rate and the percentage of the 
education budget of all public finance. 
 
There is also a demonstrated commitment by the Government to poverty reduction and 
achievement of the MDGs. The 2004 Public Expenditures Review: “Focusing Public 
Page  9
Expenditure on Growth and Poverty Reduction” conducted by the World Bank has provided 
evidence that the Government’s policy has indeed been implemented, that resources have been 
released in accordance with its requirements, and that the financing of the sector has steadily 
improved. 
 
The Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and the anticipated enhanced collaboration 
with Ministry of Finance will guide the development in the sector in a more down-to-earth 
manner. 
 
The Government has demonstrated ownership and had taken the lead in coordinating all donor 
activities. Furthermore, the Government is implementing the project with its own staff and 
rightly perceives the Fast Track Initiative as part and parcel of its own activities for the sector. 
 
There is consensus with donors and other partners that the Fast Track Initiative should continue 
the approach launched for the ongoing operations. This consensus translates into a transparent 
relationship and mutual support and it is skillfully harnessed by the Government in its pursuit of 
sectoral objectives. From a financial sustainability perspective, the exploitation of newly 
discovered oil reserves might impact favorably on the country’s wealth and, hopefully, make a 
major contribution to poverty alleviation. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned and reflected in the project design 
 
The proposed project would be the third IDA financed project (from IDA or TF resources) in the 
Education Sector in Niger. Therefore lessons learned from previous projects and reflected into 
the BESP design include: 
 
Project Management. The
 MoE has successfully drawn lessons from the implementation of the 
previous Basic Education Project that has been implemented by MoE staff. Based on this 
experience, the Government opted to mainstream the current project within administration 
bodies, as part of the implementation of the Education Sector program’s action plan with the 
view to strengthen durably the capacity of key MoE departments and to ascertain adequate 
project implementation.  
 
Monitoring and evaluation system
.
Agreeing on a set of monitoring and evaluation indicators 
does not suffice, if at project closing comparable and reliable information cannot be made 
available. Taking into account this observation, the BESP will rely on the existing M&E 
framework which has been set up at the beginning of the previous Basic Education Project. The 
assessment of the M&E system has been constantly undertaken during supervision missions and 
recently during 2008 CPPR and concluded that the BEP’s M&E system is satisfactory. Evidence 
from the first phase of the Education Sector program showed that statistics are produced in a 
timely manner and used to make planning and management decisions. 
 
Community Involvement
.
Community involvement is a major success-factor in many 
operations and this was also demonstrated specifically through the Basic Education Project. 
School Management Committees (COGES) have played key roles in improving accountability in 
Page  10
school management and in promoting girls’ education through proximity sensitizing. Therefore, 
the BESP will further pursue community involvement through COGES which is playing a larger 
role within the Education sector program with the view to strengthen these assets.  
 
Supply of School places 
does not necessarily increase girls’ attendance rates
.
The Basic 
Education Project has proved this statement and demonstrated the need to initiate specific 
activities aiming at improving the demand for schooling, mainly for girls. For that reason, girls 
demand for school access will receive the proposed project funding to finance activities 
mentioned in component one related to girls schooling promotion. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Environmental Category B. Potential negative environmental and social impacts (air pollution, 
soil and water pollution, soil erosion or loss of vegetation) might result from the construction of 
classrooms in rural areas.  
 
Safeguard policies. 
The project has triggered OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary 
Resettlement) due to potential negative environmental and social impacts related to the 
construction of schools.  To address potential negative impacts consistent with the requirements 
of these safeguard policies, the previous IDA financed project included an ESMF and a 
Resettlement Policy Frameworks were prepared because the exact locations and potential 
localized impacts of the classrooms were not known prior to appraisal. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes 
No 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
4.01) 
[ x] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12) 
[x ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (OP
/BP
4.10) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
7.60)* 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Compliance with applicable safeguard policies 
During the preparation and the appraisal of the Basic Education Project (BEP) in 2003, an 
environmental analysis which discusses the potential negative environmental and social 
impacts and proposes mitigation measures was prepared for the entire Education Sector 
Program with regard to investment during the 3 phases of the program within the education 
sector. An environmental and social management framework which can be used in BEP and 
in future phases of investments in the education sector was prepared; and a resettlement 
policy framework to deal with potential social issues that might result from construction was 
prepared. These documents were all disclosed both in-country and at the Bank information 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
service prior to appraisal. They will be updated and re-disclosed prior to the appraisal for the 
implementation of the FTI BESP. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
a. Project 
documents 
·
Niger: Lettre d’endossement des PTFs locaux du programme du Niger au Fast Track 
Initiative (2002) 
·
Niger: Proposal for support from the FTI Catalytic Fund Committee; 
·
Niger: Guidelines for the use of FTI/CF funds; 
 
b. 
World Bank documents  
·
Country Assistance Strategy, 2003 
·
Country Assistance Strategy, 2008 
·
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No: 25688-NIR, June 20, 2003; 
·
Accord de Financement du projet PADEB (CA), Juillet 24, 2003 ; 
·
School Construction in Developing Countries:  What do we know?  World Bank, 2008, by 
Serge Theunynck) 
 
c. 
Government documents  
·
Niger Country Status Report, 2005  
·
Evaluation of school construction, 2006 
·
Medium Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF), MOE, 2008 
·
Annual statistical yearbook, various versions, 2000-2008  
 
d. Other 
references 
·
Aide-mémoires conjoint de diverses missions de supervision du PDDE 
·
Notification of the CF allocation to Niger by the FTI Secretariat 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Adama Ouedraogo 
Title: Education Spec. 
Tel: 5350+3250 
Fax: +227- 20.73.55.06 
Email: aouedraogo1@worldbank.org 
Location: Niamey, Niger (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  12
