Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC4384 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/20/2009 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Niger 
Project ID: P115436 
Project Name: NIGER - EFA/FTI PROGRAM 
Task Team Leader: Adama Ouedraogo 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 24, 2009 
Estimated Board Date: July 30, 2009 
Managing Unit: AFTED 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Primary education (95%);Public administration- Education (5%) 
Theme: Education for all (80%);Gender (20%) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
EFA-FTI Education Program Development Fund 
8.00
8.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The overall objective is to help the Government of Niger to accelerate the implementation of the 
Government’s Education Sector Program (ESP 2003-2013) by supporting the implementation of 
the second phase of the program (2008-2010). Activities financed by the CF are within the ESP’s 
plan of action over the period 2009-2011.  
 
The project would have the following more specific objectives:  
 
(i) 
increase enrollment and completion rates in basic education programs;  
 
(ii) 
improve the quality of education and  
 
(iii) 
improve management at all levels of the sector.  
 
The CF will use the overall indicators of the program to track progress on the ten-year sector 
program, and will use the specific indicators mentioned below to track the attainment of the 
objectives for the grant.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The development objectives of the Fast Track Initiative Grant for Basic Education are to support 
the acceleration of education for all and achieving the education sector MDGs in Niger:  
Page  2
Improving access to education and improving equity and retention in the Sector; (ii) Improve 
the Quality and Efficiency of Primary Education (iii) Strengthening management capacity of 
MoE and empower local entities and communities.  
 
In order to achieve these objectives the CF will focus on the following components.  
 
Component 1: Improve Access to Education and Improve Equity and Retention in the Sector. 
This component will support:  
 
.
(i) Construction of 440 classrooms equipped with latrines and student desk mainly in rural 
areas; (ii) and acquisition of about 3,000 student’s desk for others schools.  
 
.
Improve Girl's participation to education by (i) organizing information campaigns to increase 
awareness of the population through the reinforcement of School Committees (COGES) 
capacity; and (ii) provision of awards to promising students at the regional level.  
 
Component 2: Improve the Quality and Efficiency of Primary Education. This component will 
support:  
 
(i) the edition and distribution of about 412,260 textbooks;  (ii) the pre-service and in-service 
teacher training program to update teachers and inspectors competencies; (iii) acquisition of 
school supplies.  
 
Component 3: Strengthen Management Capacity of MoE and Empower Local Entities and 
Communities. This component will support:  
 
(i) Strengthening the capacity of School Management Committees (COGES) and (ii) 
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Education in critical areas by the reinforcement of 
the Planning and Study Directorate (DEP) capacity.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Nation wide.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
This project is a follow up project. As in the previous IDA project and Fast Track Grant, the 
design of the program triggers OP 4.01 and 4.12 related to environmental and social risks. The 
disclosure document will be updated during the project appraisal and published in the country 
and infoShop.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (AFTCS) 
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTEN) 
 
Page  3
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The project has triggered OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary 
Resettlement) due to potential negative environmental and social impacts related to the 
construction of schools. The safeguard screening category is S2 and environmental screening 
category is B.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
The RPF provides the main principles governing the resettlement operations in the 
framework of the project. In close collaboration with project management, communes will 
develop a Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) following the guidelines of the Resettlement Policy 
Framework.   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  07/20/2009 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
All needed studies were done under the previous project. The previous project prepared an 
ESMF and RPF. The two documents will be updated and re-disclosed in-country prior to 
appraisal.  
 
The sector unit has agreed to accept transfer of safeguard responsibilities.   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Adama Ouedraogo 
07/20/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
07/20/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Christopher J. Thomas 
07/20/2009 
Comments:   
