                               Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2558



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (TF-94742)



                                  ON A

                                GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8 MILLION

                               FROM THE

    EDUCATION FOR ALL – FAST TRACK INITIATIVE CATALYTIC FUND

                                TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                FOR THE

                  BASIC EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT




                             January 14, 2013




Human Development
Education Development
Country Department AFCW3
Africa Region
           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective: 12/02/2012)

                Currency Unit= CFA
                  1.00 = US$ 0.02
                 US$ 1.00 = 506.87

                   FISCAL YEAR

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF        Additional Financing
AME       Association des Mères Educatrices – Students’ Mothers
          Association
BESP      Basic Education Support Project – Projet d’Appui à
          l’Education de Base
COGES     Comité de Gestion des Etablissements Scolaires –
          School Management Committee
DEP       Direction des Etudes et de la Programmation –
          Department of Planning and Studies
DPO       Development Policy Operation
DREN      Direction regionale de l’education nationale -- Regional
          Directorate of Education
DRFM      Direction des Ressources Financière et Matérielle
DRH       Direction des Ressources Humaines – Department of
          Human Resources Management
DSI       Directions des Statistiques et Informatique –
          Department of Statistics and Information
EFA       Education For All
ENI       Ecole Normale des Instituteurs
ERA       Ecole rurale adaptée – Single Classroom Schools
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
ESP       Education Sector Plan (or Programme Décennal de
          Développement de l’Education –PDDE)
FM        Financial Management
FMR       Financial Management Report
FTI       Fast Track Initiative
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GER       Gross Enrollment Rate
GNP       Gross National Product
GPE       Global Partnership for Education
HDI       Human Development Index
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA             International Development Association
IEB             Inspections de l’education de base – Inspectorate of
                Basic Education
IEC             Information, Education and Communication
ISN             Interim Strategy Note
ISR             Implementation Status Report
JICA            Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MDG             Millennium Development Goal
MEN             Ministre de l’Education Nationale -- Ministry of
                Education
MTEF            Medium-term Expenditure Framework
NGO             Non-governmental organization
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PADEB           Projet d’Appui au Développement de l’Education de
                Base – Basic Education Développent Project
PAEB            Project d’Appui a l’Education de Base – Basic
                Education Support Project
PCN             Project Concept Note
PDDE            Programme Décennal de Développement de
                l’Education (or Education Sector Plan – ESP)
PDES            Plan de Développement Economique et Social
PDO             Project Development Objective
PER             Public Expenditure Review
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
RPF             Resettlement Policy Framework
SMC             School Management Committee
TA              Technical Assistance
TFGA            Trust Fund Grant Agreement
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme




        Vice President:           Makhtar Diop
        Country Director:         Ousmane Diagana
        Sector Manager:           Peter N. Materu
        Project Team Leader:      Adama Ouedraogo
        ICR Team Leader:          Adama Ouedraogo
                                                 NIGER
                                      Basic Education Support Project



                                               Table of Contents
Datasheet
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... vi
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 9
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 16
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 27
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 28
 6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 32
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............ 33
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 35
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 41
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 45
 Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
 Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 49
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 60
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
 MAP
                                     DATASHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                         NIGER - Niger EFA-
Country:               Niger                   Project Name:
                                                                         FTI Basic Educ Project
Project ID:            P115436                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-94742
ICR Date:              12/21/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         NIGER REPUBLIC
Original Total
                       USD 8.00M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.64M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 8.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 DRFM/Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/08/2009   Effectiveness:            01/15/2010         03/15/2010
Appraisal:             07/21/2009   Restructuring(s):                            11/18/2011
Approval:              10/15/2009   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                  11/30/2011         05/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                                     90                  90
Public administration- Education                                      10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     58                  58
Gender                                                                34                  34
Rural services and infrastructure                                      8                  8

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Makhtar Diop
Country Director:          Ousmane Diagana                      Ousmane Diagana
Sector Manager:            Peter Nicolas Materu                 Peter Nicolas Materu
Project Team Leader:       Adama Ouedraogo                      Adama Ouedraogo
ICR Team Leader:           Adama Ouedraogo
ICR Primary Author:        Donald B. Hamilton


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Basic Education Support Project (BESP) is to
contribute to the implementation of the Education Sector Program by improving access to
better quality primary education. In order to achieve this objective, the project will focus
on the three components to: a) increase access and equity in primary education; b)
improve quality in primary education; and c) strengthen capacity of the Ministry of
Education (MEN), and decentralized entities.


                                                  ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

NA


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target      Completion or
                                            documents)           Values       Target Years
                Primary school gross enrollment rate increased from 62% in 2007/2008 to 70%
Indicator 1 :
                in 2010/2011
Value
quantitative or 62%                        70%                 NA             76%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/16/2008                   10/15/2009                         11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was exceeded (175%)
achievement)
                Girls' share in primary school enrollment increased from 42.7% in 2007/2008 to
Indicator 2 :
                45% in 2010/2011
Value
quantitative or 42.7%                      45%                 NA             44.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/16/2008                   10/15/2009                         11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was not achieved in full (65%)
achievement)
                Primary school gross enrollment rate in rural areas increased from 58.9% IN
Indicator 3 :
                2007/2008 to 67% in 2010/2011
Value
quantitative or 58.9%                      67%                 NA             70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/16/2008                   10/15/2009                         11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was achieved and exceeded (137%)
achievement)
                Completion rate for primary education increased from 45.8% in 2007/2008 to
Indicator 4 :
                50% by 2010/2011
Value
quantitative or 45.8%                      50%                 NA             51.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/16/2008                   10/15/2009                         11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Indicator was exceeded (129%)
achievement)
Indicator 5 : The average pass rate in primary education increased from 83.6% in 2007/2008

                                              iii
                  to 86.6% by 2010/2011
Value
quantitative or 83.6%                    86.6%                    NA         89.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/16/2008                 10/15/2009                          11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was exceeded (197%).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of classrooms built and equipped
Value
(quantitative     0                         400                   NA         294
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                       11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was not achieved in full (74%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     IEC campaigns organized to promote girls' education
Value
(quantitative     0                         23                    NA         23
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                       11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was achieved in full (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of textbooks acquired and distributed
Value
(quantitative     0                         412,260               NA         412,260
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                       05/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was achieved in full (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of students booklets acquired and distributed
Value
(quantitative     0                         546,000               NA         0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                       11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was not achieved (0%)
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of teachers of supportive schools to ENI (écoles annexes) trained

                                                  iv
Value
(quantitative     0                         3,150                 NA       3,100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                     11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was achieved almost in full (98%)
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of members of school management committees (COGES) trained
Value
(quantitative     0                         5,700                 NA       5,500
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                     11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was almost achieved in full (97%)
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Three core team members of the MoE are trained in PER preparation
Value
(quantitative     0                         3                     NA       0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                     11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was not achieved (0%)
achievement)
                  Number of functioning school management committees increased from 10,162 in
Indicator 8 :
                  2007/2008 to 14,000 in 2010/2011
Value
(quantitative     10,162                    14,000                NA       14,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                     11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was achieved in full (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Public sector expenditure reviews are prepared
Value
(quantitative     0                         2                     NA       1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/16/2008                10/15/2009                     11/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This indicator was not achieved in full (50%)
achievement)




                                                 v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    12/30/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  2    06/29/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3    03/29/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.23
  4    12/25/2011       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              5.30
  5    05/27/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              6.28


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The primary reason for the
                                                     restructuring was to extend the
                                                     closing date by 6 months to
                                                     ensure adequate time for project
                                                     completion in light of the 6
                                                     months delay in effectiveness
                                                     due to the political situation.
                                                     Specifically, with this
 11/18/2011       N       S       S         5.30
                                                     restructuring the project would
                                                     be able to complete: 1)
                                                     construction of classrooms and
                                                     corresponding acquisition of
                                                     furniture; and 2) acquire
                                                     958,000 textbooks/booklets and
                                                     31,000 teacher guides for
                                                     Grades 3 through 6.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1. In 2008, almost two-thirds of Niger’s population of 14 million was living in extreme
poverty with less than US$1 per day. Niger had a high infant mortality rate and low life
expectancy, ranking 174 out of 179 countries on the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) Human Development Index (HDI). Niger was also characterized by
high population growth rates of about 3% annually and endured periodic shocks such as
food insecurity. Macro-economic developments in 2009 and 2010 were dominated by
the severe food and political crisis. Inadequate rains in 2009 resulted in a poor harvest and
food shortages in many parts of the country. Half of Niger’s population became food
insecure with malnutrition levels exceeding the emergency threshold. Poor agricultural
performance in 2009 led to a decline in overall GDP by -0.9%, even though non-
agricultural GDP grew by 5.1%. The food crisis experienced in 2010 also led to a slow-
down in non-agricultural activities.

1.1.2. During this period Niger was also undergoing major political transitions.
Specifically, the President had amended the constitution to permit him to run for another
term. This caused significant strife and led the country into a period of political instability
which also resulted in significant staff changes in the public administration. The
international reaction was to suspend Niger from some regional organizations, close
borders and suspend aid. All of this placed additional stress on the Government as the fiscal
situation had already deteriorated as a result of the agricultural crisis. The date of
effectiveness and implementation of the Basic Education Support Project (BESP) were
delayed as a result of new elections which were held in order to re-stabilize the country.
After a more than three month delay, the FTI-BESP was declared effective on March, 15,
2010 less than one month after the military coup which occurred on February 18, 2010.

1.1.3. In terms of education, some important achievements had been made in primary
education prior to project preparation. For example, the gross enrollment rate (GER) had
increased from 37% in 2000 to 62% in 2007/2008. However, at the same time, less than
one-third (29.8%) of the population was literate, Niger had one of the lowest primary
school participation rates in the world, and significant disparities were observed in access
to education. These disparities existed across geographical zones with only one in five
children in rural areas enrolled in Grade 1 (an area where 83% of the school-aged
population lived) whereas three out of four children in urban areas were enrolled. Regional
disparities were also observed in the country with enrollment rates ranging from 46% in
Diffa to 108% in Niamey. There was also a persistent gender gap with the GER for boys
being consistently higher than that observed for girls.

1.1.4. At the time, the bulk of primary education was provided by the Government with
private schools accounting for only 4% of primary enrollment. Just over one-third of
classrooms were multi-grade (most of these in rural areas) as a result of a severe shortage
of classrooms. In response to the limited availability of government-funded schools,

                                              1
communities were continuing to build schools in remote areas with the support of
international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). As would be expected, school
attendance was largely a function of the availability of schools. For example, a study of
three geographical zones (Dosso, Diffa and Mirriah) found that in villages where
classrooms were available 44% of school-aged children were enrolled in school –
compared with 20% where classrooms were only available in adjoining villages. In
villages which did not have a school nearby (which characterized about 40% of villages),
there was 0% enrollment. Further, the conditions of the classrooms were largely
inadequate with 41% of total classrooms located in straw huts. Moreover, the education
sector was also characterized by an inequitable distribution of teachers. Although the
average pupil teacher ratio was 40:1 in the country, most teachers were concentrated in the
capital (Niamey), again placing the large majority of school-age children that were living in
rural areas at a distinct disadvantage.

1.1.5. The high poverty rate in Niger combined with low assessments of the value of
education among parents and students contributed to the low likelihood that Niger would
be able to reach the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of universal completion of
primary education by 2015 (or its medium-term objective of 90% completion by 2012).
According to the Ministry of Education (Ministre de l’Education Nationale – MEN) at the
time, an estimated 12% of total public expenditure on primary education represented family
direct expenditure. This corresponded to an estimated 4,300 FCFA per student, or about
3% of gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, and much more for poor families with
both lower levels of income and larger average family size. These high costs were mostly
attributable to parents being required to pay for learning materials as those supplied by the
Government were often insufficient in quantity and arrived late. To address these problems
which were occurring primarily as a result of inefficiencies such as a centralized
procurement process, providing small school grants to schools had demonstrated efficiency
as parents were then able to purchase kits at a lower unit cost and in a timely manner.
Furthermore, opportunity costs for sending children to school were also high, particularly
in rural areas where primary school-aged children were working between three to four
hours a day for the family. As such, school attendance of rural children resulted in a 60%
to 66% reduction in household production (due to the loss of children’s contribution).
Evidence from the previously mentioned study found that even when schools were
available about 42% of boys and 64% of girls were not attending school providing more
evidence of demand constraints on education.

1.1.6. Quality of education was also poor and learning achievement low. In 2007, for
example, only 26.5% and 16.6% of Grade 4 students had achieved an acceptable level of
skills in math and reading, respectively. The internal efficiency of the education system
was low with high drop out and repetition rates and low completion rates. Out of a cohort
of 100 students entering Grade 1, only 70 reached Grade 6. Together, the poor quality of
education was often attributed to: i) lack of qualified teachers; ii) inadequate pre- and in-
service teacher training; and iii) limited (and delayed) supply of pedagogical materials and
school supplies.




                                             2
1.1.7. At the time of appraisal, the education sector was absorbing approximately 21% of
the country’s budget and 4% of the GDP – while the school-age population was growing at
a rate of 3.3% per year. In light of the problems described above, more investment in the
sector was needed. The primary level of education was receiving more than 70% of the
total sector budget with financial contribution of other stakeholders estimated at 12% (an
important share of sector spending). Further, the high level of centralization of
responsibilities for the education sector was hampering the overall efficiency of the system.

Government Involvement in Education Sector

1.1.8. In light of these problems, and in the face of these challenges, the Government
prepared a ten-year Education Sector Program (ESP, called the Programme Décennal de
Développement de l’Education – PDDE) organized in three phases (2003 – 2007; 2008 –
2010; and 2011 – 2013) which was designed to achieve the Education for All (EFA) goals
with the achievement of universal primary enrollment in 2015. The ESP aimed to balance
the priorities of developing an education and training system in accordance with the
Government’s policies and the priorities of the Poverty Reduction Program (notably related
to improving access to and quality of primary and secondary education) and contributing to
economic development through strengthening technical, vocational and higher education.

1.1.9. The Government had also undertaken a massive recruitment of qualified teachers
(while providing pre- and in-service teacher training) and was focusing on the
strengthening the role of school management committees (Comité de Gestion des
Etablissements Scolaires – COGES) in textbook distribution and sector management.
Specifically, the Government’s strategy was comprised of both policy and institutional
reforms that included: institutionalization of a policy of contractual teacher recruitment;
introduction of a promotion policy and one imposing limitations in student repetition;
provision of textbooks through private firms and increasing the role of local leaders and
COGES in book management; preparing and implementing a three-year program budget
and progressive implementation of results-based budgeting and execution; increasing the
share of the MEN’s recurrent budget managed at the regional level; and strengthening the
DRFM’s (Direction des Ressources Financière et Matérielle) role and capacity to handle
fiduciary management and its ability to train and oversee deconcentrated financial
personnel.

1.1.10. The Project was a key link to previous operations in the evolution of the primary
education sector such as the Basic Education Development Project (Projet d’Appui au
Développement de l’Education de Base – PADEB) and the use of the first disbursement of
US$8 million from the Global Partnership for Education (GPE). The relatively small size
of the project of US$8 million should be evaluated in relation to the strategic contribution
to sector development and the role of the Bank. Bank operations in the sector had
established the basis on which the ESP was prepared and implemented jointly with other
donors and with financing from the GPE. The Bank decided to maintain its strategic role
and to focus the project components on reform measures that would increase the
effectiveness of investments in the sector. These included a change in community
involvement in school construction, modalities for student-teacher support and pedagogical

                                             3
reforms, and involvement of the COGES in school management especially in the areas of
girls’ participation and acquisition of learning materials. This approach not only
complemented investments from other donors but helped increase the effectiveness of these
investments.

Rationale for FTI-Catalytic Fund, Donor and Bank Involvement

1.1.11. The main objective of the Fast Track Initiative (FTI) 1 is to support the global
compact for development for the achievement of the MDGs in education. In pursuit of this,
the FTI provides catalytic funds to assist countries in achieving the EFA goals. Through
the ESP, the Government possessed a solid and feasible plan for reaching the MDGs –
focusing on achieving the MDG of universal primary education. The Catalytic Fund Grant
reflected the donor community’s commitment to implement Niger’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) II, particularly to support the development of human resources,
expand basic services, and to improve access to education, as outlined in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and in the ESP. The Bank had been a key partner in the
education sector in Niger over a number of decades leading analytical work, sector policy
dialogue and financing sector projects and programs including the PADEB.

Historical Context related to EFA-FTI support

1.1.12. In 2004, the EFA-FTI had approved a grant allocation of US$16 million to support
the implementation of the ESP, to be provided in two separate disbursements of US$8
million each. The first disbursement of US$8 million was provided through a contribution
to a pooled fund set up with other donors to finance a joint operation using temporary
arrangements in the absence of clear Bank guidelines for managing FTI funds. As a result
of fraudulent activity related to the fiduciary management of these funds, donor funding
was suspended and ways to prevent this from recurring were discussed. These issues arose
because Niger, as one of the first countries to receive FTI funds was operating in a context
in which guidelines for use of the funds, especially in terms of fiduciary management were
unclear although the FTI was advocating the use of country systems. In this context, the
FTI threatened to cancel the second disbursement of US$8 million and to reallocate it to
another country. The Government was very concerned about this and negotiated
successfully to retain the funds with the Bank continuing as the supervising entity, since
financing from the FTI for continued implementation of the sector plan had already been
delayed and cancellation would have prevented achievement of the plan’s objectives.

1.1.13. The mechanisms for use of this second allocation had to be changed, however,
following the revision of OP/BP 14.40 (Trust Funds) in July 2008, which made it
mandatory for all funds provided by the World Bank, whether from its own resources or as
administrator of Trust Funds, to be managed using Bank guidelines. However, if the GPE
funds were to be managed through a pooled fund, Bank guidelines required that all funds
in this account would be subject to Bank guidelines. Not all donors agreed to this, and for
the sake of expediency, it was decided that funds would be provided through a segregated


1
    Now the Global Partnership for Education (GPE)

                                                     4
account, managed using the Bank’s procurement guidelines, implying this would be
processed as a separate Bank operation. 2 3 This decision was beneficial as it ensured that
the funds were efficiently managed using acceptable fiduciary standards. This was in
contrast to the overly stringent procedures which had been put in place by the pooled fund
partners in response to the fraud. The required procedures for the pooled fund could not be
followed by the Government and the funds had to be cancelled.

1.1.14. Given the several years’ delay in the use of the first US$ 8 million from the GPE,
quick disbursement methods were needed to process the grant. Additional financing (AF)
was not an option as there had been no prior Bank project to which the US$ 8 million could
be attached and a Development Policy Operation (DPO) was rejected, because the main
focus of the program was to finance urgently needed investments in a variety of areas (e.g.,
school construction) rather than on a policy reform program. Moreover, this was also an
18-month bridge operation for a modest amount (US$8 million), which does not in-and-of-
itself offer much in the way of policy-reform leverage even though there were some
innovations in the design. 4 It was, therefore, agreed that the Project would be delivered as
a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) and although originally intended to be a one-year
operation, it was extended to 18 months to increase the feasibility of completing project
implementation during the project life. This also, however, meant that requirements (e.g.,
those related to PDOs, outcome indicators, etc.) designed for projects with a significantly
longer timeline would be applied to this Project. Several steps were taken to facilitate
project implementation by both the Bank and the Government. For example, communities
were required to complete the classrooms with windows and doors instead of asking for
their contributions prior to or during construction which had delayed construction in other
projects. This was an innovation that was being initiated the results of which would be
evaluated before the approach would be taken to scale.

Higher Level objectives to which the Project aimed to contribute

1.1.15. The main objectives of the Bank’s CAS (FY08-11) was to support the Government
in the implementation of the PRSP II, which rested on seven pillars several of which were
linked to the objective of the proposed project including the promotion of equitable access
to quality social services; reduction of inequalities, and infrastructure development. It also
supported the Government’s Accelerated Growth Strategy. Niger’s 10-year sector-wide
ESP had an overarching aim of achieving universal access to primary education by 2015.
The ESP had four inter-related strategic axes: i) expanding access to basic education; ii)
improving education quality and efficiency; iii) improving the use of existing resources;
and iv) building capacity and empowering local structures and communities. The BESP
was designed to follow the first phase implementation of the education sector program
(which had been formally re-endorsed for the FTI by the local donor group in 2008), was



2
  From the project appraisal document (PAD)
3
  The option of using country systems could not be exercised as had been the case with some pooled funds in
other countries since the systems in Niger did not satisfy Bank requirements.
4
  From the PAD

                                                    5
based on the second phase of the Government’s ESP (2008-2010) and was designed to
help Niger achieve universal primary education by 2015.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1. Project Development Objectives: The overall development objective of the BESP
was to contribute to the implementation of Niger’s ESP by improving access to better
quality primary education: The BESP was to use the overall indicators of the program to
track progress on the 10-year sector program (ESP), and would use the specific indicators
(mentioned in the PAD) to track the achievement of project objectives.

Expected outcome indicators included the following:
   a) Increased access and equity in primary education
          • Primary school GER increased from 62% in 2007/08 to 68% in 2010/11
          • Girls’ share in primary school enrollment increased from 42.7% in 2007/08
              to 44% in 2010/11
          • Primary school GER in rural areas increased from 58% in 2007/08 to 65%
              in 2010/11
   b) Improved quality in primary education
          • Completion rate of primary education increased from 45.8% in 2007/08 to
              48% in 2010/11
          • Average pass rate in primary education increased from 83.6% in 2007/08 to
              86.6% in 2010/11

Output/Input Indicators:
   • 400 classrooms built and equipped
   • 412,260 textbooks acquired and distributed
   • 546,000 teaching and learning materials (booklets) acquired and distributed
   • 3,150 teachers of supportive schools to ENI (ecoles annexes) trained
   • 5,700 members of school management committees (COGES) trained
   • MEN staff trained in Public Expenditure Review (PER) Preparation
   • Number of functioning COGES increased from 10,162 in 1007/08 to 14,000 in
       2010/11
   • 2 Sector PERs prepared by 2011


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved) and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1. The Project’s primary beneficiaries included students, teachers and communities.
Teachers were provided with training, learning materials while students were provided with
textbooks and improved quality teaching. Further, both boys and girls benefitted from

                                            6
more permanent classrooms, most predominantly those in rural areas (as 94% of
classrooms were built in such locations). Girls were targeted by this Project and benefitted
from various project activities, including targeted awareness campaigns and the
construction of latrines (which research shows increases their participation in school) and
through merit-based awards. Construction of the latrines was complemented by a MEN-
initiated program to increase familiarity in the use and maintenance of these facilities. The
combined approach helped lay the foundations for expanding girls’ enrollment. In the long-
term, research shows that education is associated with higher socio-economic status and
improved health outcomes. 5 Local communities were empowered by participation in
school management activities specifically through training and support in implementing
school plans and maintaining school buildings. Secondary beneficiaries included
construction workers and contractors who benefitted from the transparent and systematic
manner in which tenders and contracts were processed.


1.5 Original Components

1.5.1. The BESP included the following components, which complemented activities in the
ESP financed by other sources.

Component 1: Increased access and equity in primary education (estimated: US$5.65
million). This component supported: (i) construction and equipment of 400 classrooms and
latrines mainly in rural areas; (ii) organization of information campaigns to increase
awareness in the population of the benefits of girls’ education in liaison with a promotion
of Proximity Sensitizing 6 which showed satisfactory results during the first phase of the
program; and (iii) provision of awards to promising female students at the regional level.

Component 2: Improved quality in primary education (estimated: US$1.58 million). This
component supported: (i) the publication and distribution of about 412,260 textbooks and
546,000 other reading materials (booklets); (ii) development and implementation of a pre-
service and in-service teacher and inspector training program to update teachers and
inspectors’ competencies; and (iii) implementation of a pilot consisting of the provision of
micro-grants to COGES for the financing of learning tool kits which would also help
improve quality.

Component 3: Strengthening the management capacity of the central and local levels
(estimated: US$0.77 million). This component supported: (i) strengthening the capacity of
School Management Committees (COGES) and (ii) strengthening the capacity of the MEN
in critical areas in liaison with the ESP training plan.


5
  Studies in Niger show that both rural revenues and rural productivity are improved considerably with higher
educational attainment, especially for those who have had secondary education, followed by those who have
completed basic education. The health status of these groups will also be improved. For example, the results
of analytical work show that an additional year of education for the mother translates into a 2.83 percent
reduction in the probability of her child having growth problems.
6
  This is an approach through which communities use communal activities to increase sensitization about
education, especially girls’ education.

                                                     7
1.6 Revised Components

N/A

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1. The closing date for the Project was extended from November 30, 2011 to May 31,
2012 as project effectiveness was delayed by six months due to the political situation.
Specifically, this extension would be important in achieving project objectives, specifically
in completing: (i) the construction program; and (ii) other ongoing activities, including the
procurement of textbooks and teacher guides. Implementation of these components had
been delayed due to weak procurement capacity as well as changes in MEN central and
regional staff that were responsible for construction, following the political and
administrative changes that occurred during the period of project approval and
effectiveness.

1.7.2. Project funds were reallocated during restructuring to better align them with
changes in project implementation on the ground (see Table 1). The proposed
reallocations were made in order to deal with a number of issues that were unforeseen
during project design, including: 1) higher costs for training under the Project; ii) steep
increases in inflation; iii) increases in prices of commodities necessary for classroom
construction in part as a result of border closings during February 2010 and continuous
strikes throughout 2011 at the port in Cotonou (the main entry point for imported goods
to Niger). Reallocations were made to accommodate these increases and to cover
project management costs for the remaining life of the Project.

                       Table 1: Reallocation of Proceeds (USD ‘000)

                                                  Budget After                  % of Financing
              Category              Original                     Reallocated
Category                                          Reallocation
             Description        Allocation(USD)                   amounts      Current   Revised
                                                    (USD)

           TOTAL                     8,000            8,000          0          100%     100%
           Goods, Works Cons
                                    5,650.0           5,864.9       215.0      70.63%    73.31%
   1         & TRN Part1

           Goods, Works Cons
   2                               1,350.00           955.1         -395.0     16.89%    11.94%
             & TRN Part2

   3         Micro-Grants            230.0            239.0          8.8       2.88%     2.99%
              Part2(iii)
             Goods, Works
   4        Cons., AUD, OP           770.0            941.0         171.0      9.633%    11.76%
              &TRNGP3

  DA-A     Designated Account


                                                  8
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1. Some issues that affected project preparation, design and quality included:

Security Issues: The political instability which was prevalent during preparation and the
initial stages of implementation took a different turn in the latter stages of implementation
and this affected some of the components. Rebel activity in the Sahel region led to the
taking of hostages in the northern part of Niger. This resulted in a strong military response
from the Government in these areas. In addition, spillover from the Libyan crisis led to the
movement of some of the warring factions to Niger and increased the security threats in
some parts of the country. The areas affected by these events became inaccessible and
people moved from their normal villages to more secure locations. Classrooms and other
activities planned for these locations, therefore, had to be moved to other areas or
abandoned.

Government support to sector: Government support for the sector policies and programs
continued to be strong and consistent during preparation and implementation. However,
the challenges the country was facing at the time stretched its management and material
resources. This was particularly the case in supervision of construction. To manage costs, it
was decided that construction inspectors at the decentralized levels would share
transportation with the Regional Directorates of Education (Directions regionales de
l’education nationale – DREN) given the relatively small number of classrooms in the
various locations. However, staff changes and budgetary constraints made it difficult to
follow this plan as some new staff in the regions were not aware of the arrangements and
resources for operating vehicles were not readily available due to shortage of funds.

Analytic work: The project design was largely informed by the analytical work that
buttressed the preparation of the ESP. Substantively, the 2005 Niger Country Status Report
(La dynamique des Scolarisations au Niger: Evaluation pour un développement durable,
World Bank) influenced the Project’s emphasis on both providing infrastructure for
schooling in close proximity to students and approaches in promoting girls’ education. It
was also influenced by a school construction evaluation in 2006 which led to a change in
the way communities were integrated in school construction. 7 The analytical work that
informed the 2008 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) also influenced the
Project’s design. In particular, this and other studies supported increased sector financing to
promote quality education and to reduce household costs for primary education.

Lessons learned and reflected in the project design. A number of lessons were gleaned
from previous projects to guide the design of this Project. These included:



7
 School Construction in Developing Countries: What do we know? World Bank, 2008, by Serge Theunynck
which supported the systematic involvement of communities in school construction to help reduce
construction and maintenance costs as well as to promote ownership.

                                                9
   •   Project implementation should be mainstreamed within the existing government
       administrative structure to strengthen capacity-building and ensure effectiveness.
       This was feasible given the structure that had been put in place to prevent
       fraudulent activity (as had occurred previously).
   •   Increased enrollment has to be accompanied by quality improvements in the
       education system. Expansion of enrollment in a low quality system can lead to
       eventual decrease in participation due to increase in repetition and drop-out rates
       and a reduction in access as families become disenchanted with the system.
   •   Determining project indicators requires consideration for the availability of reliable
       data for monitoring. For this reason, the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
       framework which has proved reliable for monitoring the implementation of the
       PADEB and ESP was used.
   •   Community involvement was essential in improving management and
       accountability at the local level, school construction activities, procurement of
       learning materials, and in promoting girls’ education. The Project therefore, focused
       on strengthening the role of COGES in school management and supported
       sensitization and involvement of communities in project implementation.
   •   Increasing girls’ participation in school does not rely solely on the supply of
       schools. Other measures including awarding prizes to girls with high achievement
       scores to encourage retention and continuation to secondary education would be
       supported by the Project. Targeted awareness campaigns are also key in promoting
       girls’ education since they provide a framework within which specific local issues
       can be discussed and solutions found.
   •   Cost-sharing in school construction should be based on realistic assessment of
       communities’ potential contribution. The Project, therefore, adopted an evolutive
       classroom construction approach through which the main structures (e.g., roofs)
       were financed by the Government while windows, doors and other items, equivalent
       to about 10% of the cost of construction was the responsibility of the local
       communities.
   •   Quality improvements require leadership and long-term commitment necessary to
       ensure long-term sustainable change. The teacher training reform component aimed
       to support a long-term vision and holistic approach, where teachers could support
       student teachers.
   •   Managing project funds using weak country systems can lead to fraud and waste.
       Use of Bank procedures is, therefore, preferable until country systems are
       sufficiently strengthened.

2.1.2. No quality rating at entry was provided by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1. Some of the key factors which affected project implementation are described below.
As a result of some of the factors described below, the project closing date was extended by
six months to allow adequate time to complete the construction and textbooks components.



                                            10
2.2.2. Political Instability. Niger experienced a period of political instability from the
period prior to effectiveness which continued and had implications for project
implementation. In 2009, the President amended the national constitution to allow him to
seek re-election and serve another presidential term and this created widespread
uncertainty. This led to serious division in the Administration while it also resulted in
negative reactions from donors, in turn, resulting in the suspension of aid and Niger’s
membership in various organizations. In addition to delaying effectiveness (as conditions
could not be met) it also led to a coup in mid-February 2010. Although the coup restored
some order, it ushered in a continued period of uncertainty during which the Bank decided
to suspend operations in the country (on the basis of OP 7.30). While the Project was
declared effective on March 15, 2010, implementation start-up was slow as a result of the
coup and, most notably, the changeover in ministry staff. This was compounded in the
initial stages of implementation by presidential, legislative and local government elections
which were organized to install a new democratic government.

2.2.3. Further, school construction in some areas subject to rebel activity was also difficult.
The security situation deteriorated, in particular, in the fall of 2010 when four hostages
were taken from one of these areas. In response to this and to increase protection, military
activity was stepped up in the affected areas but this resulted in a massive flight of nomadic
populations to more secure areas. These challenges were further compounded later by the
spillover from the Libyan conflict. Construction was, therefore, delayed in some villages
until security improved. Plans to build in some areas, however, did have to be abandoned
and the resources were used to build schools in towns to which the population had moved.
This insecurity also prevented the construction of some classrooms as many of the targeted
areas could not be accessed.

2.2.4. This political context also resulted in other delays. For example, contracts for
construction and textbooks can usually be fulfilled within 12 months. These draft contract
documents had been drafted and arrangements had been made to complete the bidding
process soon after project effectiveness. The political context, however, resulted in
unexpected delays of about six to nine months in this process which resulted in the first
batch of construction contracts being awarded only in July/August 2011, about nine months
prior to project completion.

2.2.5. Government capacity and support. As a result of the above, MEN had new staff
assigned to support project implementation yet they had limited (if any) familiarity with
implementing Bank operations. While the Government did aim to recruit staff with greater
knowledge in this area, the process was slow and so the Government hired contract staff to
support the Ministry though they were also initially unfamiliar with Bank procedures.
Limitations in capacity, most notably the absence of a procurement specialist, caused
delays and inefficiencies in project implementation particularly with regard to the
procurement of construction and textbooks. The Bank aimed to mitigate this weakness by
providing intensive support.       Further hampering project implementation was the
complexity of government procedures, particularly in fiduciary management. This might
have been, in large part, a reaction to the fraud observed prior to the project (resulting in



                                              11
incarceration of several ministry staff). Implementation capacity at appraisal was,
however, considered adequate on the basis of the MEN’s track record in previous projects.

2.2.6. Authorization of International Development Association (IDA) funds to cover
taxes. The Government decided to request the IDA very late in the process to account for
taxes in the total project cost and this had the effect of reducing the number of planned
classrooms to be constructed because of increased costs of the contracts. The option of
including taxes in IDA financing is offered by the Bank to help countries in meeting their
sector targets during periods of fiscal crisis. Since the Project was being designed in a
period of uncertainty for the Government when revenues from aid and economic activity
had decreased significantly, it was appropriate for this option to be exercised. There was,
however, no clarity at the time of project design as to how FTI could increase the amount
to include taxes since financing of taxes is not one of the criteria on which GPE allocation
decisions are made. At the same time, the Bank could not increase the IDA grant amount
since this had not been planned as a co-financed operation with IDA. Since the funding
needed to require taxes, the contract costs were much higher than appraisal estimates, so
the number of classrooms that could be constructed had to be reduced by about 30% of
appraisal estimates to remain within the available funding envelope.

2.2.7. Design of Supervision. While the Project aimed to provide support to disadvantaged
populations, in turn, targeting rural areas for classroom construction (as one of the equity
objectives was to provide access to school for children in remote areas) the implementation
of this activity was delayed as the regional technical staff responsible for supervision were
underequipped (e.g., in terms of limited transportation, logistical support, etc.). As
described earlier, since the construction of classrooms was dispersed across a large
geographic area, providing every engineer with personal transportation was not considered
cost-effective. The arrangement was for them to share vehicles that had been procured
under the previous project with the DRENs. This arrangement, however, did not work out
as had been envisaged. The DRENs were also operating under difficult conditions given
the changes in personnel (as those described above) and in the face of uncertainties
following the suspension of the constitution and the coup.

2.2.8. No performance ratings by QAG were provided.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1. The M&E system for the Project built on the system which was being used for
effectively monitoring ESP that had been developed in close collaboration with sector
partners. The M&E system included three main elements: (i) agreed project indicators; (ii)
the Technical Committee for Sector Budget Support Management and Monitoring (Comité
Technique de Suivier de Gestion des Appuis Budgétaires - CTSGAB) and (iii) Joint
reviews. Under the leadership of the General Secretary of the MEN, M&E activities were
the shared responsibility of the MEN’s core technical departments (Department of Statistics
and Information – DSI, Department of Human Resources Management – DRH and
Department of Planning and Studies – DEP) with the Ministry’s Regional Directors
providing the necessary information and data from the field. A progress report was

                                             12
prepared twice a year to provide information on program implementation status and
outcomes and to provide updates on achievements of performance indicators. These reports
coincided with project supervision missions that were also planned concurrently with the
annual joint sector reviews led by the Government. The Government and all partners,
including NGOs active in the education sector, organized the annual joint review in
June/July, where the technical and financial performance of the ESP and the Project were
evaluated and recommendations were made for improvements in the project and ESP. An
evaluation of the COGES pilot (buying school materials in Konni) was carried out to
measure the program’s impact on beneficiaries and to monitor service delivery efficiency.
Other partners also carried out studies on project implementation, for example, Japanese
International Cooperation Agency (JICA) provided partial financing for a study on COGES.

2.3.2. M&E Design. The outcome indicators to which the Project contributed were the
same as those used for the ESP and were regularly monitored jointly by the Government
and partners. As described earlier, the project components were a continuation of activities
being implemented in the context of the sector program and had also contributed to
improving sector outcomes. Given the limited time frame, the additional impact of project
activities on sector outcomes (separate from the ESP) could not be determined. The project
output indicators were relevant and their achievement was feasible given the project
timeline under normal circumstances.

2.3.3. M&E Implementation. Data on outcome and output indicators were collected and
used throughout project implementation. Data collection methods were reliable as the
central and regional units were responsible for implementation and the data were provided
in a transparent manner and audited formally and informally by partners and other NGOs
(who had presence on the ground) during the annual joint reviews. Their reliability was
confirmed by the Government before being used to assess progress related to the
implementation of the ESP and to guide the development of annual plans. Monitoring of
specific activities such as the pilot in Konni was also carried out in a transparent manner to
ensure credibility. The outcome indicators were useful in assessing the overall direction of
the ESP and could be used as a backdrop for assessing the Project’s output indicators. In
spite of the delayed implementation of some project activities, output indicators were
regularly monitored.

2.3.4. M&E utilization. Most of the output indicator measures could not be used for
making changes to project approach as the project lifetime was quite limited. Despite this,
some of the multi-grade classrooms (ecole rurale adaptée – ERA) classroom construction
sites were moved to follow the nomadic population following the hostage crisis and
resources for COGES component were increased given the program’s success in this area.
Also, complementary measures were put in place to facilitate use of latrines when it was
observed during supervision missions that their usage was not as high as expected.




                                             13
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1. The Project was classified as Category “B? and complied with all safeguard
requirements. The Project triggered two safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment
(OP4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12). Under the project, an Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)
were prepared including environmental and social checklists which were adopted for the
implementation of the EMP. The checklists were used to screen the 294 classrooms and
108 latrines (sub-projects) across the intervention sites. Prior to commencement of
construction, however, there was a lack of clarity on land issues but this was later resolved.
Apart from this lack of clarity and the lack of water points in some of the sites, no other
noticeable safeguard issues were identified during implementation and none of the sub-
projects or other project activities led to involuntary resettlement.

2.4.2. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) consistently rated the Project as satisfactory
for overall compliance with applicable operational policies. There were no significant
deviations or waivers from Bank safeguards, fiduciary policies and procedures during
project implementation and the Project’s overall rating on environmental and social
safeguards is deemed satisfactory. The Government took the initiative of resolving the
land issue, continued to improve the practice of hygiene, the provision of water points and
the improvement of sanitation at all project intervention sites.

Procurement

2.4.3. Overall procurement performance under the Project evolved from moderately
satisfactory to satisfactory over the project life and this supports a rating of moderately
satisfactory. The use of the wrong bidding documents for the booklets was seen as an
isolated incident. Between the two phases of the civil works program, the quality of
procurement documents improved substantially. As described earlier, the rapid shift in
ministry staff at the beginning of the Project contributed to the poor quality of documents
and resulted in delays in the procurement processes and related decision-making. The
contracts for booklets and auto-teaching materials might have been completed by end of the
Project if an agreement had been reached more rapidly to amend the contracts to address
tax issues. Despite the workload of the staff responsible for civil works in the region, their
contribution to the procurement process has significantly improved the overall procurement
performance of the Project.

Financial Management

2.4.4. The Project’s Financial Management (FM) performance is rated moderately
satisfactory. The disbursement rate at the close of the Project was 95.53%. The team
implementing the project activities underwent considerable changes in terms of staffing
arrangements. With the exception of the Project Accountant, the Secretary General and the
Director of Financial and Material Resources were replaced following the elections and it
took a while for the new team members to become familiar with FM procedures for project
operations. Financial audits were carried out for FY 2010 and FY 2011. The audit

                                             14
opinions for both reports were qualified. The final set of audit reports for the FY 2012
financial statements is expected to be received by June 30, 2013 at the latest. The project
team also prepared interim financial reports (IFRs) as stipulated in the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement (TFGA). The reports were submitted within the set timelines and were of
acceptable quality.

Disbursement

2.4.5. Out of an amount of US$8 million approved for the Project, a total of US$7.64
million was disbursed. The rate of disbursement at the close of the grace period on
September 30, 2012 was 95.53%. Seven (7) withdrawal applications were submitted to the
CTRLA. During the grace period an amount of FCFA 686,174,407 was advanced to the
Project in order to finalize payments for contractors who delivered work by the closing date
of May 31, 2012. The outstanding amount to be accounted for by the Project as of
November 30, 2012 was FCFA 726,953,769 (US$1,453,907.54 at the rate of US$1=FCFA
500). This rate of disbursement in a 2-year period is a substantial improvement from the
performance under the pooled fund and was achieved without governance issues.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1. Arrangements have been made to continue to pursue the project objectives and to
implement project component activities. The project objectives and components are
similar to those for the proposed Support to Basic Education Program (P132405) to be
financed by the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) for which a project concept note
(PCN) review meeting was held on October 18, 2012. Similar to the BESP, the objectives
of the proposed project are to expand access to education and enhance the quality of the
teaching-learning process in targeted areas. The key components of the follow-up project
also include a number of initiatives tested in BESP such as: new approaches to school
construction in collaboration with communities; promotion of girl’s education through
prizes; improved sanitary facilities and awareness campaigns; provision of textbooks using
local networks; procurement of teaching materials through local procurement using the
COGES; integration of in-service and pre-service teacher training to better support student
teachers and introduce pedagogical reforms; and strengthening of sector management
including further developing the role of COGES in school management. The proposed 3-
year project (US$84 million) is expected to become effective in June/July 2013. This
Project can ensure the provision of adequate support to continue reform efforts and
investments supported under the BESP. The proposed project will be implemented by the
MEN in collaboration with other partners.




                                            15
3. Assessment of Outcomes

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1. The project objectives were clear, realistic and fully aligned with government
objectives, strategy and program (ESP) as well as the CAS and PRSP objectives and
activities of other partners and donors. The Government’s focus on increasing access to
and quality of education was an appropriate development objective as limitations in these
areas have been identified as major constraints to socio-economic development. Further,
the project’s objectives and design were not too demanding of the Ministry as they
complemented activities in the education sector that the Government had been supporting
with some success over the years and management issues that had been experienced prior
to the project had been adequately addressed by the Government.

3.1.2. The Project was designed to contribute to the achievement of the ESP outcome
indicators since there was an acknowledgement that achieving outcome indicators just for
the Project would be challenging in light of the short project life (18 months). The selection
of such indicators was accepted practice at the time for FTI-financed projects for which the
duration was too short to have measurable outcomes. Further, these indicators were
appropriate as the project components were a continuation of activities in the joint pooled
fund operation which, in combination with other components, had been leading to
improvements in the ESP outcome indicators.              It was, therefore, expected that
implementing these components would continue to contribute to increasing equitable
access to quality education in the medium-term. The assessment of the success of the
Project would, therefore, be based on the extent to which the output indicators were
achieved efficiently. The progress in meeting the PDO outcome indicators mentioned in the
ISRs reflected the contribution of the GPE financing of US$16 million to meeting the ESP
outcomes.

3.1.3. The selection and reach of the components were also appropriate and feasible given
the political situation at the time of project design, however, their feasibility changed as the
political context became increasingly difficult. One observed limitation in outcomes was
related to the provision of booklets. This, however, was a result of contract management
difficulties also related to the country context rather than to an inaccurate assessment of the
feasibility of implementing this activity. The Project’s support of the procurement of
school materials by COGES was also positive with an evaluation showing that the process
could be completed faster than centralized procurement and points to an approach that
could be used on a larger scale. Although systematic data could not be collected to measure
the impact of all project components because of the project duration, anecdotal evidence
from interviews with regional education staff, beneficiaries, and parents has provided
evidence of the Project’s positive impact.

3.1.4. The Project continues to be very relevant to current and medium-term needs. In
addition to its alignment with current priorities, one of the strategic objectives of the

                                              16
Government’s recently approved Plan de Développement Economique et Social (PDES)
2012 – 2015 (the new PRSP) is to improve access to basic social services and education.
The strategy will focus largely on access to quality education for all and the reduction of
inequalities of all types to ensure equal participation in the social and economic life of the
country. These new policies and strategies have also been conveyed in the Letter of
Education Sector Policy for the period 2013-2020. Specific actions to achieve this (linked
to BESP’s achievements and approach) include: (i) providing free and compulsory
education for children/youth up to 16 years of age; (ii) replacing temporary classrooms
with permanent structures; (iii) reducing inequalities (related to rural/urban, income, gender
and other disparities); (iv) promoting girls’ education; (v) improving the health, hygiene
and sanitation conditions of schools; and (vi) revising teacher training programs. The
PDOs support the second objective of the current CAS to increase equitable access to
quality social services and it is expected that they are also consistent with the CAS
currently being prepared to support the PDES.

Relevance of Design

3.1.5. The design of the components was highly relevant for the context in which it was
prepared. The aim was to continue implementation of key components of the sector plan as
had been agreed in collaboration with other donors while improving on some of the design
elements. For example, the approach to community involvement in classroom construction
was changed from requesting community contribution prior the start of construction to
completion of schools by communities when useable structures were already in place. Also,
pre-service and in-service training programs were systematically linked to ensure effective
support for student teachers in schools and to facilitate smooth implementation of
pedagogical reforms. The role of the COGES was expanded and their capacity strengthened
to improve their effectiveness in school management. The scope and complexity of the
components were also appropriate given the duration of the Project and the challenges of
the context. The extension of the project completion date was largely due to non-design
issues such as the unforeseen deterioration of the political situation and security following
the hostage crisis and the spillover of the Libyan civil war. Similarly, the tax issue that led
to the reduction of the construction targets and the non-execution of the contract for
booklets was more of a contract management than a design issue.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1. All the outcome indicators were substantially achieved. As can be seen in Table 2,
four of the five PDO indicator targets were exceeded with only one indicator missing the
target by a narrow margin. Although it may not yet be possible to quantify the contribution
of the Project to the achievement of these targets, it could be inferred that the Project would
contribute to sector outcomes in the medium-term, given that the use of the first US$8
million funding from FTI, was part of the joint effort in the implementation of the entire
ESP which produced positive changes in the sector indicators. Apart from the measurable
outputs, it is important to note the potential future impact of this Project in terms of laying



                                              17
the foundations for future operations in areas such as teacher training and institutional
capacity-building including the COGES would be substantial.

3.2.2. Some of the key achievements include:

    •   An increase in GER from 67.8% in 2009 to 76.1% in 2011 surpassing the end of
        project target of 70%
    •   An increase in GER for rural areas from 64.4% to 73.4% over the same period
        beyond the 70% target
    •   The gender target of 45% was almost met
    •   Completion rate of 51.2% in 2011 exceeded the target of 50.0%
    •   Promotion rate of 89.5% exceeded the target of 86.6%


                            Table 2. Status of Outcome Indicators

     Project
  Development          Indicator         Target Value   Actual Value   Achievement Rate
    Objective
Increased access
and equity in      Primary school
primary            gross enrollment          70%           76.1%           Exceeded
education          rate

                   Girls’ share in
                                                                          Substantially
                   primary school            45%           44.2%
                                                                           Achieved
                   enrollment

                   Primary school
                   gross enrollment          67%            70%            Exceeded
                   rate in rural areas
Improved quality   Completion rate
in primary         of primary                50%           51.2%           Exceeded
education          education
                   The average Pass
                   rate in primary          86.6%          89.5%           Exceeded
                   education




                                               18
               Table 3. PDO Ratings by Component and Sub-Component

No.                                 Component                                   Rating

1.    Component 1. Increase access and equity in primary education               MS

      Sub-component 1: School construction                                       MS

      Subcomponent 2: Improve Girls’ Education                                    S

2.    Component 2: Improve the Quality in Primary Education                      MS
      Sub-component 1: Development and distribution of textbooks and
                                                                                 MS
      school supplies
      Sub-Components 2: Pre and in service teacher training                       S
3.    Component 3: Strengthen the management capacity of the MEN                 MS
      and decentralized entities and Communities
      Subcomponent 1: Strengthen the Capacity of School Management
                                                                                  S
      Committees (COGES).
      Subcomponent 2: Strengthen the Capacity of the Ministry of Education
                                                                                 MU
      in critical areas liaise with the ESP training Plan.



Component 1. Increasing Access and Equity

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Sub-Component 1. Construction of Classrooms

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.2.3. The reduced number of 294 classrooms and 108 latrines to be financed by the Project
was achieved. The number of classrooms to be constructed dropped from 400 to 294 as a
result of the Government’s decision to use grant funds to cover taxes as well as increases in
inflation and construction material commodity prices. Further, as described earlier, in
some instances, some ERA classrooms were not built or their designated site was moved
due to security reasons (with resources used for the construction of classrooms in towns,
for example, to which the displaced population from these areas had moved). A technical
audit conducted on the school construction program in the ESP between 2009 and 2012
concluded that the quality of construction was good, meeting required standards, and that
construction costs were similar (or lower) to those for similar structures built by donors in
the same areas. It has been reported that all the classrooms built by this Project are being
used effectively and have welcomed an increased numbers of students in the 14,750 new
school places created. Although not all classrooms had been completed by the communities


                                                 19
by project completion, the new structures had expanded school places and learning
conditions had improved.

Sub-Component 2. Improvement in Girls’ Education

Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.4. By project completion awareness campaigns had been carried out in the nine areas
that had the lowest girls’ participation rates. Prizes were awarded to the best performing
girls in these schools using agreed procedures. Further, a total of 417 girls received school
kits in the Project’s 23 priority zones. Although the total number is small relative to the
total enrollment, the aim was to test the approach in areas with the greatest obstacles to
girls’ education. Field visit reports by the Government and donors indicate a positive
response to the prizes and a strong demand for the system to be expanded. One example of
the communities’ perception of this approach as successful is the decision of one
community (not included in the program) to adopt the system. There is some anecdotal
evidence that there was an increase in enrollment in some of these areas, but this could not
be properly analyzed because of the unreliability of data. Some of these areas had suffered
from increased insecurity and subsequent population movements. A monitoring and
support program has been put in place by the Ministry (including the girls’ education focal
point in the Ministry) to monitor the progress of the girls who received prizes to determine
the success of the program.

Component 2: Improvements in the Quality of Primary Education

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Sub-component 1. Development and distribution of textbooks and school supplies

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.2.5. All the textbooks were procured and delivered by project closing. All 412,260
textbooks and 31,000 teachers’ guides had been delivered to schools by the time of the ICR
mission. This contributed to an increase in the textbook: student ratio from 0 to 1:3 for
students in Grades 3 and 4 and to 1:2 for students in Grades 5 and 6. Despite this
achievement, the contracts for the booklets and self-teaching materials were not undertaken
and, therefore, this was not achieved by project closing. This was largely as a result of
protracted discussions with the selected supplier over various contractual issues (e.g.,
inclusion of taxes in the contract price even though the tender documents and bid
submissions had been prepared net of taxes). It appears the MEN used the old standard
bidding documents in which taxes were excluded in error due to staff changes. The TFGA
stipulated that all contracts were subject to taxes and the Government was not willing to
waive this provision. The mistake was discovered after the contract had been awarded and
it took until February 2012, three months prior to project completion, to reach an
agreement with the supplier to amend the contract to include taxes. Despite this push, the
contract was not executed. It is possible that this limitation could reduce the impact of

                                             20
textbooks and teacher guides since they were designed to be complementary parts of the
teaching package.

3.2.6. To develop a more efficient system for increasing learning the provision of kits to
students, a pilot which provided micro-grants to the COGES to purchase these learning tool
kits was carried out in Konni (an inspectorate totaling about 40,000 students). It was
expected that this would lower the costs for parents by ensuring timely delivery and
increased availability of learning materials in schools. The communities procured these
locally rather than through the use of traditional centralized procedures and it proved
effective. Although resources were provided only in September 2010, all schools in the
pilot had received their materials in the first two weeks of the beginning of the succeeding
school year (October) which is much sooner than what usually was the case when using
centralized procurement procedures. This finding suggests that the COGES can play a
much greater role in school management in the future. It is likely that the pilot’s success
was due in part to the training of the members of the COGES and the guidance provided
by the IEB (Inspection de l’Education de Base). Further, the flow of funds for the program
was clearly structured and transparent, with strict guidelines on what could be procured
with the funds as well as the process for accounting for the use of funds.

3.2.7. Ensuring the timely provision of school materials would be a major contribution to
improving the quality of education as they are essential for promoting learning. The report
prepared on the basis of the pilot indicates that the community is satisfied with the results
of the pilot.

Sub-Component 2. Pre and in service teacher training

Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.8. The objectives of the training program were to: (i) ensure that teachers in practice
schools adopt the learning by competency approach; (ii) harmonize the contents of teaching
materials; and (iii) improve the support for student teachers during their teaching practice
period. The target for training 3,150 teachers to complement the training that had been
given to school directors using the same modules in the Agence France de Developpement-
financed Support for the Development of National Education Project (Projet d’Appui au
Developpement de l Education Nationale) was almost achieved in full (training only 50 less
than the target – 3,100.) This was important in ensuring that all staff in the practice schools
had received the same training. Ensuring the systematic linkage of pre-service and in-
service training programs to the introduction of a new pedagogical method is an efficient
way of carrying out these types of reforms. The project-funded three-day training provided
an introduction to full training programs and was complemented by auto training materials
and onsite support to ensure that teachers were prepared to apply the new methods.
Discussions with school staff and student teachers during a field visit to Maradi revealed a
positive response to the program, especially in establishing consistency between the school
curriculum and teacher training programs. This program is likely to have a positive impact
on access and learning in the medium term since teacher performance is a key factor in
promoting learning.

                                              21
Component 3: Strengthen the management capacity of the MEN and decentralized
entities and Communities

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Sub-Component 1. Strengthen the Capacity of School Management Committees (COGES)

Rating: Satisfactory

3.2.9. With training of 5,520 COGES members the sub-component target was almost
achieved in full (96.5%; target of 5,700). Members of COGES were trained in micro-
planning in 23 priority zones as planned, to help them diagnose issues and better prepare
specific local action plans to promote participation of girls in schools, as well as manage
funds for the procurement of learning materials. The positive results of the procurement of
school materials were observed (as described above) and evidence of a positive impact on
girls’ participation is the decision of one village (not included in the program) to establish
its own system for awarding prizes to girls for achievement in school. The program which
aimed to train COGES for the 20 ERAs was completed as planned. The specific objectives
were to ensure that these schools received the required support from the communities in
promoting access to and in managing the schools.

Sub-Component 2. Strengthen the Capacity of the Ministry of Education in critical areas
liaise with the ESP Training Plan

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.2.10. The objectives of this component were to support: (i) training of deconcentrated
structures on Results Based Management; (ii) training of a core team of trainers on
strategic planning; and (iii) training of a core team to undertake PERs on annual basis.
None of the training described above was carried out by the Project due to the unstable
staff situation in the MEN. However, a team of three people was trained (with financing
from the pooled fund) when project effectiveness was delayed. The aim was to refinance
this after project effectiveness, but retroactive financing was not provided for in the TFGA.
Finally, one of the two planned PERs was carried out and used in joint discussions of the
annual sector plan.

3.2.11. In assessing the overall rating for this component, strengthening of the COGES was
given a higher weighting than strengthening of MEN staff. The COGES will help establish
a viable system for school-based management which when done properly would yield
substantial benefits in learning achievement and efficient use of resources. This approach
would also further integrate the school in the community with links to civil society in a
long-term development process that could have positive externalities for communities. On
the other hand, while training of MEN and strengthening of management system is good,
there is a higher risk that these investments can be eroded quickly through staff turnover
arising from external shocks as occurred in Niger during the period of political turbulence.

                                             22
Some of the training could not even be provided because it was difficult to identify staff for
training in a rapidly changing environment.


3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

3.3.1. The economic analysis shows that the resources were efficiently used in achieving
project outcomes. An economic assessment of Component 1 shows that although
construction costs were somewhat higher than projected costs, they were similar to other
comparable projects in Niger. The higher costs of constructions led to a reduced number of
classrooms being built, which was primarily due to lack of tax-exemption contracts, which
was assumed at appraisal. For the semi-finished classrooms, this additional cost due to no
tax-exemption corresponds to the cost of 63 classrooms. Thus, for the actual contract prices
obtained for the semi-finished classroom a total of 327 classrooms could have been built
(had tax-exemption been given), which is only slightly below the target of 345 classrooms. 8

3.3.2. The Project’s semi-finished classroom, which in many cases replaced temporary
structures, is expected to increase learning outcomes for students in these communities, as a
number of studies show a positive effect from quality of school buildings on learning
achievement. 9 The permanent structure of the classrooms also brings financial savings to
the communities, as communities will no longer have to replace the temporary classrooms.
Assuming that the permanent classroom structures can be used for 25 years, this brings a
saving to the communities of around FCFA 1,954,287 (US$ 4,142) over a period of 25
years. 10 Component 1 also supported information campaigns to increase awareness in the
population of the benefits of girls’ education.

3.3.3. An efficiency analysis of Component 2 found significant savings on textbook costs
compared to the projected costs. Further details can be found in Annex 3 (Economic and
Financial Analysis). The unit cost for the textbooks bought by the project was FCFA 540
(US$ 1.1) for elementary and FCFA 640 (US$ 1.4) for Grade 6. 11 According to the PAD,
the projected unit costs for textbooks were FCFA 900 for both types, and actual prices are
thus 40% and 29% lower respectively. Cost for textbooks and learning materials were
reduced by the decision of the government for INDRAP to author the content while buying
editorial skills and printing through competitive bidding. This eliminated the need to pay




8
   264 semi-finished classrooms were built at a unit cost of X0F 7,031,488 resulting in a total cost of
1,856,312,832. Net of 24% tax the unit cost is 5,670,555, which gives 327 semi-finished classrooms at a total
cost of 1,854,271,432.
9
  The World Bank, Education in Sub-Saharan Africa – A comparative Analysis, 2012.
10
   This is based on a simple NPV calculation for the community based on two scenarios of either a onetime
payment of X0F 567,055 in year 1, or annual payments of X0F 160,000 for 25 years assuming constant real
term prices on annual construction costs for temporary classrooms and a discount rate of 4%.
11
   Information received from MOE Accounting Department.

                                                    23
high costs for copyrights for materials that would have been produced entirely by
publishing companies. 12

Implementation efficiency

3.3.4. It should be noted that the implementation of the construction component of BESP
was much more efficient than the portion of the ESP financed by the pooled fund. In 2009,
the pooled fund was supposed to finance the construction and equipment of 176 classrooms
including 6 ERA classrooms, administrative offices for 2 regional directorates, and 8
inspectorates for basic education and for the MEN in Niamey. By 2011, two years later,
only 170 classrooms had been completed and furnished. The rest of the construction
program was abandoned because of the difficult country conditions at the time and the
funds were subsequently cancelled.

3.3.5. The target for those buildings to be financed by the pooled fund was low compared
to the 400 planned for the BESP because the 2009 program supported by the pooled fund
was considered a pilot that would form the basis for launching an ambitious program
through which 3,000 classrooms would be built annually. However, the pilot program
financed by the pooled fund was not completed successfully. A technical audit of the ESP
construction program carried out from 2009 to 2012 concluded that the quality of
construction was moderately satisfactory because the observations which had been made at
the time of the provisional reception of the buildings had not yet been taken into account.
These observations were subsequently taken into account in the BESP, as confirmed by the
Bank supervision mission carried out in March, 2012. This raised the quality of the
buildings to the required level. The quality of construction in BESP was considered
comparable to or better than that under the pooled fund buildings. This audit report also
applies to the construction program in the BESP since it was a continuation of the ESP
program that was audited.

3.3.6. With regard to textbooks, the pooled fund was supposed to finance US$428,000
worth of materials, but this could not be done as a result of problems with procurement and
the funds were cancelled. In this area, the BESP also performed better.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.4.1. The relevance of Project objectives, design and implementation was rated
moderately satisfactory and project efficiency was substantial. These ratings provide
justification for an overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.




12
     Project documents and Supervision Reports.

                                                  24
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1. The Project has had a significant impact on the reduction of poverty. By financing
school construction, and providing textbooks and materials, this has increased school
enrollment and provided better quality education (in the long-term associated with
improved socio-economic status and the promotion of economic development 13) and has
reduced the cost for households to send their children to school. In addition to increased
savings for households, the communities usually responsible for school construction and
maintenance and school kits were able to use these resources to address other needs.

3.5.2. In the medium-term an increase in educational attainment among females would lead
to reduced fertility rates that would help reduce the population growth rate and improve
standards of living and social well-being. The Project also laid the foundations for further
expansion of girls’ enrollment and retention through a variety of activities. The awareness
campaigns would serve to generate discussions outside the immediate project areas on the
issue and encourage communities to develop and implement home grown solutions feeling
secure that there would be institutional support for their efforts.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.3. The Project contributed substantially to institutional capacity-building through
component 3 and through the implementation of the various components. The training of
COGES members was substantially achieved with the training of about 5,520 or 97% of the
target of 5,700 members. Also, the number of functioning COGES was increased to the
target of 14,000. This support provided the COGES with the capacity to successfully carry
out new institutional approaches to the procurement of learning materials and for the
promotion of girls’ participation in the education system. These are critical initial steps in
the development of school-based management which various studies have shown is
essential for promoting enrollment, retention and quality in schools. Although the training
for staff in the MEN was not financed by the Project it was an important part of the project
design which had to be financed through the pooled fund due to unexpected delays in
project effectiveness. Through this training the MEN was able to carry-out one of the two
planned PERs which informed the joint annual discussion of the sector action plan to
address issues of inadequate and imbalanced financing of the sector. The other PER and
proposed training could not be carried out due to the unstable staff situation in the MEN at
the time.

3.5.4. Implementation of the project through MEN management was also an effective
mechanism to increase capacity despite the challenges at the time. Procurement
management, for which there was little capacity following the staff turnover at the
inception of the project, had improved substantially by project completion. FM was also


13
  The Role of Cognitive Skills in Economic Development. Eric A. Hanushek, Ludger Woessmann. Journal
of Economic Literature 2008, 46(3), 2008, pp. 607-668.

                                                25
good and there was no evidence of fraud similar to what had happened in the previous
project. The integration of pre-service and in-service teacher training was also a major
contribution to improving the quality of newly trained teachers and the introduction of a
new pedagogical approach that would have positive results in the medium term. The new
approach to the involvement of communities in school construction would also have longer
term impact on the system as classrooms would be delivered more quickly and the
participation of communities in construction and maintenance would be more efficient.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5. One of the unplanned outcomes of the micro-planning exercise was a program to
familiarize students and communities on the use of sanitary facilities, as some of them were
not being used even after completion. The MEN environmental specialists in collaboration
with the COGES and students’ mothers associations (associations des mères educatrices –
AMEs), therefore, established an awareness program and provided supplies for the use and
proper maintenance of the water and sanitation facilities. Although resources for this
program were not originally planned for in the Project, authorization was given for the
program to be financed until it could be included in the MEN budget or financed by
schools. The implementation of this program has also highlighted the need for a package of
measures, including clean water, to be introduced to complement provision of water and
sanitary facilities to ensure that they are used properly and have the desired effect after
construction. This could inform the design of future projects as the duration of the Project
was too short to introduce any substantial changes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Stakeholder Workshop

3.6.1. A stakeholders’ workshop was held on October 30, 2012 and included discussions
related to the completion report findings, lessons learned, risks and future prospects, as
well as other critical issues. Some recommendations were made related to the sustainability
of previous project achievements as useful in providing future guidance and the need to
systematize project achievements from the end evaluation. Stakeholders from areas
supported by the Project provided information as to the immediate impact of the Project on
communities and institutions on the ground. In particular, the benefits of the newly
constructed classrooms and the increased effectiveness of teachers and student teachers
who had received training were highlighted. The workshop participants also raised the
issue of the completion of classrooms as it appears that the involvement of the COGES
were not as effective as they might have been as a result of communications problems.
Also, the construction staff indicated that the delays in construction were due in part to
inadequate logistical and material support and the length of the bidding approval process.
Participants also mentioned the slow procurement process, but acknowledged that this was
largely due to weak procurement capacity at the start and more stringent internal controls in
MEN to help prevent fraud.




                                             26
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating at Appraisal: Substantial 14

4.1.1. The risks identified at appraisal were appropriate. Some of them did materialize and
were more serious, having a greater impact than had been expected. In particular, the
political instability/transition, security situation and underfinancing of the education sector
placed achievement of the PDOs at risk. The political transition led to a coup which
resulted in massive staff turnover within the Ministry as well as delays in project
effectiveness and implementation. As described earlier, the initial plan to build ERA
classrooms in some areas was abandoned due to increased security concerns following the
hostage crisis and spillover from the Libyan crisis. As planned, however, the Bank and the
other partners maintained their sector dialogue with the Government and provided technical
support to keep the ESP, which included this Project, on track. This support and continued
dialogue helped minimize the negative effects of security concerns on the Project. With
regards to sector financing, the Government’s decision to include taxes in project costs (for
construction of classrooms), given the fixed amount of the grant, required a reduction in the
number of classrooms that could be built with project funds. Additionally, disagreements
with one supplier resulted in the non-delivery of booklets for schools. The risks associated
with weak MEN capacity at the central and decentralized levels also materialized and were
much worse than expected as feared because of the political context. This adversely
affected the procurement process and supervision of classroom construction delaying
implementation. The Bank, however, provided support to address these weaknesses and
performance improved as a result.

4.1.2. The Risk to Development Outcome is rated substantial largely because the current
political climate and potential volatility of the sub-region, given the crisis in Mali and the
uncertainty characterizing the situation in Libya and other neighboring countries which
could adversely affect the sector. Apart from this, the risk that project outcomes will not be
sustained is considered negligible or low as there is strong government and partner
commitment to the project design and objectives. The internal political situation in Niger is
now stable based on a new constitution and with a democratically elected government in
place. There is, therefore, little risk of any sudden changes in government or instability in
the public sector similar to what happened in 2009/10. Through these developments Niger
has returned to the international community and is receiving external political and financial
support including from the private sector. The project objectives are also consistent with
the recently approved PDES which will be supported by the CAS. Communities, including
the COGES, are committed to continuing to participate in school management and
construction and in the promotion of girls’ education. Additionally, sector institutions are
being further strengthened to increase efficiency in the use of resources. The proposed
project will also increase the chances of the project outcomes being sustained.




14
  The “moderate? rating in the PAD is read as “substantial? given that “moderate? is not one of the
categories and the nature of the risks identified

                                                27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.1. Despite the difficult preparation context, the Project had relevant objectives and was
well-designed (including adequate implementation arrangements) in a short-time period. In
light of the commitment to build 400 schools with a limited budget due to the tax impact,
the Bank might have been more proactive in discussing this decision with the Government.

Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2. The Bank ensured quality at entry by deriving the project objectives from and
building the project design on the ESP which itself had been informed by a substantial
amount of analytical work and, in turn, refined during the implementation of the ESP.
Further, the Project’s objectives and design were developed jointly with the Government,
donors, NGOs and other stakeholders within the framework established by the analytical
work to ensure technical soundness, feasibility of implementation and complementarity
with other ongoing programs. Despite the short project duration and the difficult country
context, the project design and implementation introduced innovations in construction,
community-based school management (through COGES) and increased gender equity in
education by adopting innovative approaches to promoting girls’ education.

5.1.3. The Project was processed for approval while FTI procedures were still in the
process of being designed. Further, the project design was also more complex given that
this second disbursement of FTI funds (of the total US$16 million) prevented its inclusion
within the pooled fund as had been done previously. Moreover, as a result of long delays in
disbursement and implementation of the first US$8 million, there was pressure from the
Government to disburse this second tranche quickly. As a result of these issues, the Bank
was pushed to prepare an 18-month project (an extremely short time line for a SIL). In
light of this decision and the context in which the Project was designed and to be
implemented, the project team had to adjust the PDOs and components to meet these
unexpected and unusual challenges. The PDOs selected were the same as those used in the
ESP to which the Project was expected to contribute as the new Project’s duration was too
short to establish separate PDOs. Further, this approach seemed appropriate given that the
project components were part of the ESP being financed jointly with other donors.

5.1.4. The size and technical demands of the components, therefore, were within the reach
of the Government and implementing agencies as they were largely a continuation of
previous activities with some important but simple innovations. All of the project
components could have been implemented within the 18-month timeframe, if there had not
been an unexpected deterioration in the political and country context. While this risk was
identified, its impact was greater than had been expected. The Bank, however, provided


                                             28
additional Technical Assistance (TA) and more intensive support to minimize the impact of
the context on project implementation.

Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.5. The Bank supervised the Project closely since the TTL and fiduciary staff were
located in Niamey and a consultant was hired to support the TTL (who had moved to
Burkina Faso). The supervision team was also well-rounded and had the right technical
expertise, including both infrastructure and education specialists. Further, this team carried
out five supervision missions to complement continual support on the ground. Given the
erosion of capacity in the ministry following staff turnover (as described earlier), the Bank
Team proposed and supported TA (funded by the Project) to reinforce and strengthen the
Ministry’s capacity and to provide guidance in technical and fiduciary areas. In addition,
the Bank linked supervision missions with ESP implementation and monitoring, including
the interventions of the various partners and NGOs on the ground.

5.1.6. The key issue related to the taxes was raised by the Bank team with a view to
amending the TFGA. However, it was difficult to get consensus on the government side on
this issue because of the fiscal constraints. In addition, it would have been practically
impossible to amend the TFGA as that would have required an amendment by the
legislature. This would have been extremely difficult at the time given the political
instability.

5.1.7. The Bank was highly proactive in modifying the project as needed when faced with a
difficult security situation – changing the sites for the ERA schools when the security
situation deteriorated in those areas. The Bank also helped manage the impact of inflation
on the costs of construction. The Bank was also proactive in extending the Project’s closing
date by six months to allow time for full execution of some of the procurement contracts
which had been delayed due to weak ministry capacity. The contract for booklets could
have been completed if there had not been such difficulty reaching an agreement with the
supplier related to amending the contract to account for tax issues. A further extension
could have been requested, but the Government was reluctant to do so because of their
preference to close the Project quickly and apply for a much bigger grant from the GPE.
The Government preferred transferring the procurement of booklets to the proposed new
project. The Government subsequently applied for and obtained an indicative new grant of
about US$80 million from the GPE. The decision has therefore been made to transfer
financing of the booklets to the new project. With regard to the inconsistency between
tender documents and the TFGA, the Bank had approved revised standard bidding
documents that were consistent with the TFGA for use by MEN. However, it seems that in
the context of rapid staff turnover, MEN used to old documents.




                                             29
5.2 Borrower Performance

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.1. The Government and implementing agency demonstrated a strong commitment to
sector policies and programs and succeeded in implementing many of the components as
planned. However, the challenges imposed by the political turbulence were quite
substantial, especially in a context in which experienced staff were often replaced by new
staff who had no job security. Issues such as the inclusion of taxes in contracts were
difficult to handle. Similarly, managing sharing of resources at the decentralized level was
difficult since new staff had to be informed of the arrangements and had to be convinced to
share scarce resources in a difficult context. The tight fiscal situation also prevented
provision of additional resources.

Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.2. Despite the difficult political context, the Government(s) remained committed to the
sector policy and program as they related to the PRSP. Further, the Government continued
to implement policy and institutional changes proposed by the Project in collaboration with
local government, communities and partners. The Government also undertook extensive
beneficiary and stakeholder consultations during the preparation of the ESP and this had
continued during the preparation of the BESP. However, some of the more specific
consultations regarding the role of communities in completing the evolutive classrooms
were not fully undertaken in some areas due to security conditions prevailing in the country
at the time. At the time of appraisal/negotiations, implementation capacity and
arrangements were adequate, as they were based on the MEN’s and related institutions’
capacity which had been adequate in implementing previous projects.

5.2.3. Leading up to and following project effectiveness, however, conditions changed
dramatically as pressure on the then Government increased resulting in a military coup.
Following this, capacity was seriously eroded with the frequent changes in government
staff. To compensate for these weaknesses, the Government relied on TA in fiduciary
management for project implementation although these experts also had limited FM
experience in the initial stages to perform effectively. The Government played a lead role
in maintaining the M&E system arrangements which it carried out in close collaboration
with partners. The Government has also recently made adequate arrangements for a new
project to deepen the reforms and to expand the investments made in the BESP.

5.2.4. Shortcomings on the part of the Government included its limited fiduciary capacity,
especially in procurement were addressed but with delays. This led to underperformance in
the area and subsequent delays in implementation. The Government was constrained in
resolving the conflict between the tax provisions described in the TFGA and the
assumptions made at appraisal regarding numbers of classrooms and other materials given
the need to address these issues in a difficult fiscal context and the practical difficulties in

                                              30
amending the TFGA which would have needed parliamentary approval when there was no
legislature in place.

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.5. The MEN remained committed to the sector policies and programs and performed
well in implementing most of the components successfully despite the difficult context in
which it was operating. Implementation capacity which was adequate at the time of
appraisal was seriously undermined following the changes in Government as described
earlier. Nonetheless, the Ministry had appointed the required technical and fiduciary staff
to support implementation. These were the staff that carried the major task of
implementation as staff changes continued in the ministry. However, the implementation
arrangements were not always followed as planned. For example, technical staff working
on construction were supposed to be provided with logistical support by the DREN using
resources that had been put in place in the previous project. This decision was reached
because it was not considered cost-effective to provide these staff with individualized
support (such as vehicles, given the small number of classrooms to be built in each of the
widely dispersed sites; the estimated cost of one of the vehicles was more that the cost of a
3-classroom block). This undermined the otherwise good M&E capacity in the area of
construction. The location of construction sites was largely dictated by the geographic and
demographic conditions in the country. The areas that needed classrooms were largely the
remote desert areas with widely dispersed settlements and nomadic populations.

5.2.6. Other project activities such as those promoting girls’ participation in school, teacher
training, COGES involvement in school management, and the procurement of learning
materials faced fewer challenges and were therefore well implemented and monitored.
Some of the success in the area of M&E was due to the strong relationship that the
Government maintained with partners.

5.2.7. The Ministry faced serious challenges in the area of fiduciary management. Overall,
the MEN performed satisfactorily in carrying out the fiduciary management procedures that
the Government had put in place following massive fraud in the Ministry a few years
earlier and this delayed project implementation. However, this was a challenge as the new
procedures were very stringent requiring several layers of clearance and this slowed down
the processes. The challenge was even greater because of the difficulties identifying and
assigning qualified dedicated project accountants at the regional level. This delayed
payments to contractors and suppliers affecting the speed of project implementation.
Procurement capacity was also weak and the quality of documents sometimes declined in
the unstable administrative context. However, the performance of the Government in this
area was much better than in the pooled fund. Most of the BESP US$8 million was
disbursed in 24 months while it took over 4 years to disburse the first US$8 million in an
context in which fraud was pervasive.




                                              31
6. Lessons Learned

Teams should make sure that governments and the GPE are aware of the implications
choices made with regards to options offered by the Bank. Retaining the same number of
classrooms in the Project after the decision to include taxes suggests that the Government
was not aware that the amount of financing would not be increased to include taxes.

Prepare Communities properly if they are to participate in school construction. Some of
the schools in the Project were not completed because not all communities were aware that
they should provide the windows and doors and finish the buildings and did not know
details related to their contribution. To ensure full and effective participation of the
communities in the construction program, the proposed GPE-financed project will prepare
a detailed Community-Driven Development (CDD) construction implementation manual
that spells out the implementation arrangements and responsibilities at the local, regional as
well as national level, and for which the necessary technical expertise will be hired. This
approach will be based on successful experiences from interventions by NGOs present in
Niger.

Community based approach to construction should be adopted in difficult to reach areas.
Construction of classrooms in some areas had to be abandoned because contractors were
unwilling to work in these areas when the security situation had deteriorated. Access
became difficult and staff and materials could not be properly protected.

Limit project area coverage when resources are limited. When project inputs are limited
investments should be concentrated in a limited area to reduce supervision costs. The
number of classrooms in the Project was small but widely dispersed geographically and this
made it inefficient to provide dedicated resources such as transportation to the supervision
team. The decision to have the team share these resources with the provincial teams was
good but not practical especially in the difficult conditions prevailing in Niger at the time.

Addressing girls’ education requires attention to various constraints to their participation
and the potential impact of this new approach to promote girls’ education should be
explored further. Advocacy for increasing participation of girls in school should be
combined with other interventions which address the economic and security issues which
constrain access. The provision of cash prizes to families with the best performing girls
helped reduce household costs and promote retention and should be further studied.

Construction of latrines is not sufficient for promoting girls’ education. Provision of good
sanitation in school to increase girls’ enrollment should not be limited to provision of
latrines but should be part of a package that facilitates proper use and maintenance of the
latrines and an awareness program.




                                             32
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

7.1. The team shares the same concerns and solutions proposed by the MEN in their report
(see Annex 6) and the design of the proposed GPE financed project will take them into
consideration. The following three key concerns on which there is consensus with the Bank
will be highlighted in the proposed project:

   •   The importance of focusing on learning outcomes as the ultimate objective of
       investments in education. In line with this, the MEN proposes to support the
       development and implementation of “local action plans? focused on quality. These
       plans will focus on inputs, teacher training and policy measures to establish a
       complete package that will ensure increases in learning achievement.
   •   Reducing gender disparities by increasing the participation and success of girls in
       the education system. While recognizing the importance of awareness creation to
       achieve this, the MEN also proposes to adopt some innovations already tested by
       NGOs. These are:
           • Stimulation of girls' schooling through film media; empowering of AMEs
              and traditional authorities to stop early marriage of girls;
           • the creation of host centers (introduced by CARE International in Maradi)
              that would provide tutoring for students with learning difficulties, support
              for small first cycle secondary schools close to villages, and identification of
              reliable host families for students attending school away from home.
           • In addition, to these approaches, the Ministry proposes to strengthen the
              capacity of COGES to develop initiatives in this area; and to develop an
              orientation and guidance document for girls’ education focal points to help
              scale up successful practices.

7.2. With regard to school construction, the MEN also proposes to develop a partnership
with communes to encourage them to provide financial assistance to poor communities that
cannot afford to contribute to the construction of schools.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

7.3. It is important to note that the partners recognize that the Project was prepared and
implemented in a participatory manner. This collaborative approach will be maintained in
processing the proposed project. In addition, the partners note that the quality of education
remains the principal concern in the education system in Niger and in this respect recognize
the importance of the success in construction of the 294 classrooms. School construction is
a key element in expanding access and improving quality of education in Niger given that
50% of classrooms are in temporary shelters. They also recognize that it was a challenge to
have achieved this in the difficult context in Niger at the time. These views are shared by
the Bank and will further strengthen collaboration in the preparation of the new ESP.

                                             33
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                                 Percentage of
            Components                                            Estimate (USD
                                         (USD millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                                     millions)
Component 1                                      5.65                  5.99                     106%
Component 2                                      1.58                  0.98                      62%
Component 3                                      0.77                  0.91                     118%

              Total Project Costs                8.00                      7.88                  99%
       Total Financing Required                  8.00                     7.88*                  99%


(b) Financing (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                               Type of         Estimate         Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                             Cofinancing        (USD             (USD       Appraisal
                                                               millions)        millions)
EFA-FTI Education Program
                                                                   8.00            7.88*             99%
Development Fund

*The difference of approximately US$236,000 from the actual cost in this annex and that indicated on the
data sheet will be reconciled and distributed across the project’s three components in the final financial audit
of the project in 2013.




                                                        34
                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Most of the output targets were substantially met as shown in Table 1 below, except those
related to construction because of the tax and strengthening of the MEN which could not be
implemented because of the unstable staff situation in the country at the time.

Component 1. Increasing Access and Equity

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Sub-Component 1. Construction of Classrooms

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

All the revised targets of 294 classrooms and 108 latrines in the project were completed.
Although the agreed number of classrooms to be built at appraisal was 400, this number
dropped to 314 because the TFGA did not provide for tax exempt contracts which had been
the assumption at appraisal. The 314 was further reduced to 294 during the tendering
process because of US dollar depreciation and contract prices reflected the unusually high
levels of inflation that had occurred during political crisis. Also as explained earlier, some
of the ERA classrooms were not built due to security concerns following hostage activities
in the north of the country where some of the sites were located. The resources were used
instead for the construction of classrooms in towns in the same areas to which the
populations had moved for safety.

The quality of construction was good and met the required standards and the costs were the
same or lower than for similar structures built by donors in the same areas. For example,
the costs per m2 for the evolutive project classrooms in rural areas at FCFA 104,511 was
almost exactly the same as the FCFA 104,000 for schools built by UNICEF using the same
plan. The unit costs of complete classrooms built by the project in Niamey were however
about 13 percent lower than those built by PPTE, FCFA 103,000/ m2 in contrast to FCFA
116,350/ m2.

Evidence from the field shows that all the classrooms built were being used effectively
welcoming increased numbers of students to the 14,750 places created. Although not all
classrooms had been completed by the communities as expected, the new structures had
substantially improved learning conditions. The motivation of communities had also
increased and plans were being made to complete the buildings. Some of the delays in
completing the construction were because many communities were not fully aware of their
roles in completing the schools due to the crisis in the country which constrained mobility
of staff involved with the awareness campaign.




                                             35
Sub-Component 2.        Improve Girls’ Education

Rating: Satisfactory

The key actions for increasing access and retention of girls were awareness campaigns for
communities in general, school level campaigns by the COGES and prizes for the best
performing girl students. By project closing awareness campaigns had been carried out in
all parts of the country with special emphasis in the 9 areas with the lowest girls’
participation rates.

All the prizes for the best performing girls were awarded using the agreed procedures as
scheduled. Each of the 139 communes involved received FCFA 250,000 to finance the
prizes and a total of 417 girls received prizes in the 23 priority zones. Reports of field visits
conducted by joint government and donor teams indicated a positive response to the prizes
and a strong demand for expansion of the system.

The awareness campaigns were timed to coincide with the primary school final
examinations in June, a period during which some parents encourage their girls to fail the
exams as a justification for withdrawing them from school for early marriage. It was hoped
that the combined effect of the awareness creation and the prizes for the best students
would discourage this practice since it would address the question of costs of education on
households.

One piece of evidence about the success of the program for awarding prizes to girls is the
adoption of the system by one of the communities not included in the program. The
community collected funds voluntarily and awarded prizes to their own best students to
help increase access in their village. A monitoring and support program has been put in
place by the Ministry (SCOFI) to monitor the progress of the girls who received prizes to
determine the success of the program.

Component 2: Improve the Quality in Primary Education

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This component includes three sub-components: (i) Procurement of textbooks, booklets and
teacher guides; (ii) Procurement of learning materials by the COGES and (iii) training of
teachers in practice schools.

Sub-component 1. Development and distribution of textbooks and school supplies

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

All the textbooks were delivered. The delays were caused by the use of the new internal
procedures which had been introduced to combat corruption. All the 412, 260 textbooks
and 31,000 teachers’ guides had been delivered to schools by the time of the ICR. This



                                               36
contributed to increasing the textbook: student ratio from zero to 1:3 for students in Grades
3 and 4 and 1:2 for Grades 5 and 6.

The contracts for the booklets and self-teaching materials were not executed, so none were
delivered by project completion. This was because quite a long period of time was needed
to resolve differences between the tender documents and the provisions of the TFGA
regarding taxes. The mistake was discovered after the contract had been awarded and it
took until February, 2012, three months prior to project completion, to reach an agreement
with the supplier to amend the contract to include tax. Although the time left for executing
the contract was short, there was optimism that it could be done. In the event, the contract
was not executed.

Acquisition of Learning Materials by COGES. To develop a more efficient system for
increasing learning kits for students, a pilot consisting of the provision of Micro-grants to
the COGES for the purchase of learning tool kits was carried out in Konni, an inspectorate
with about 40,000 students. The aim was to lower costs to parents by ensuring timely
delivery and increased availability of learning materials in schools through local purchase
instead of through the traditional centralized procedures. Overall procurement of the
materials by the COGES was satisfactory compared to the centralized method. Although
resources were provided only in September 2010, all schools in the pilot had received their
materials in the first 2 weeks of the beginning of the succeeding school year in October of
the same year, much sooner than when they are procured centrally. This suggests that the
COGES can play a much greater role in school management in the future. The success of
the pilot was due in large part to the training of the members of the COGES and the
guidance provided by the IEB (Inspection de l’Education de Base). In addition, the flow of
funds for the program was clearly structured and transparent, with strict guidelines on what
could be procured with the funds as well as the process for accounting for the use. A report
on the pilot was prepared.

Availability of school materials at the start of the school year would be a major
contribution to quality improvement since these are essential to promote learning. There
should have been some changes in classroom interaction that would promote learning in the
2010/2011 and 2011/2012 school years although measurable impact on learning, retention
or attendance would have been difficult to measure. It is very likely however that there
would be a positive impact on learning in the medium-term if the program is extended. A
report prepared on the pilot indicated satisfaction of the community with the results.

Sub-Component 2. Pre and in service teacher training

Rating: Satisfactory

The objectives of the training program were to:
(a) Ensure that teachers in practice schools adopt the learning by competency approach;
(b) Harmonize the contents of teaching materials;
(c) Improve the support for student teachers during their teaching practice period.


                                             37
The target for training 3,150 teachers to complement the training that had been given to
school directors using the same modules and financed in the PADEN was almost reached
as 3100 or 98.4% were trained. This ensured that all staff in the practice schools had
received the same training. Systematic linkage of the pre-service and in-service training
programs linked to the introduction of a new pedagogical method is an efficient way of
carrying out these types of reforms. The training in the project lasted for 3 days and was an
introduction and was complemented by auto training materials and onsite support to
complete the preparation of teachers to use the new methodology. Discussions with school
staff and student teachers during a field visit to Maradi revealed a positive response to the
program, especially in establishing consistency between the school curriculum and teacher
training programs. The impact of this program is likely to have a positive impact on access
and learning in the medium term since teacher performance is a key factor in promoting
learning.

Component 3: Strengthen the management capacity of the MoE and decentralized
entities and Communities

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Subcomponent 1. Strengthen the Capacity of School Management Committees (COGES).

Rating: Satisfactory

The target of training 5,700 members of COGES was practically achieved as 5,520,
members of the COGES or 96.5% of the target were trained in micro-planning in 23
priority zones as planned to help them diagnose issues and better prepare specific local
action plans to promote participation of girls in schools, as well as in managing funds for
the procurement of learning materials. The positive results of the procurement of school
materials were described above and evidence of a positive impact on girls’ participation
were observed in one village not included in the program which decided to establish its
own system for awarding prized to meritorious girls.

The program to train the COGES for the 20 ERAs was completed as planned. The specific
objectives were to ensure that these schools received the required support from the
communities in terms of access as well as in the management of the schools.

Subcomponent 2. Strengthen the Capacity of the Ministry of Education in critical areas
liaise with the ESP Training Plan

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The objective of this component was to support: (i) training of deconcentrated structures on
Results Based Management; (ii) Training of a core team of trainers on strategic planning;
(iii) training of a core team to undertake Public Expenditure Review on annual basis.




                                             38
None of the training described above was carried out by the project because of the unstable
staff situation in the MEN at the central and decentralized levels during project
implementation. However, a team of 3 was trained financed by pooled fund resources
because project effectiveness was delayed. The intention was to refinance this after project
effectiveness, but retroactive financing was not provided for in the Grant Agreement. One
of the planned two PERs was carried out. This was instrumental in helping to identify
areas of inefficiency in the use of sector resources and to better align the budget with the
annual sector action plan. One of the areas of inefficiency identified was the management
of teachers which consumed about 70% of the budget. This led to a new approach for more
equitable teacher distribution.

                                         Table 1

    Activity               Indicator          Target        Actual      Achievement
                                               Value         value          Rate
             Component 1: Increase access and equity in primary education
Sub-component      No. of Classrooms Built
                                                  20            20         100%
1: School          and Equipped in Niamey
construction       No. of complete Rural
                                                 345           264         76.5%
                   Classrooms
                   No. of ERA Classrooms          35            10         28.6%
Subcomponent       No. of IEC campaigns
2: Improve         organized to promote           23            23         100%
Girls’ Education girls’ education
                 Component 2: Improve the Quality in Primary Education
Sub-component      No. of textbooks are
                                              412,260       412,260        100%
1: Development     acquired and distributed
and distribution   No. of students booklets
of textbooks and acquired and distributed     546,000            0         0.00%
school supplies.
Sub-Components No. of teachers of
2: Pre and in      supportive schools of
                                                3,150         3,100        98.4%
service teacher    ENI (Ecoles Annexes)
training           trained
    Component 3: Strengthen the management capacity of the MEN and Communities
Subcomponent 1: No. of functioning school
Strengthen the     management committees
Capacity of        increased from 10,162       14,000        14,000        100%
School             (2007/08) to 14,000
Management         (2010/11).
Committees         No. of members of
                                                5,700         5,500        96.5%
                   COGES are trained
Subcomponent 2: Training of
Strengthen the     deconcentrated structures
                                                 Yes           No          0.00%
Capacity of the    on Results Based
Ministry of        Management

                                            39
    Activity              Indicator               Target   Actual   Achievement
                                                  Value    value       Rate
Education in      Training of a core team
critical areas    of trainers on strategic         Yes      No        0.00%
liaise with the   planning
ESP Training      Training of a core team
Plan.             to undertake Public
                                                    3        0        0.00%
                  Expenditure Review on
                  annual basis.
                  Public Sector
                  Expenditure reviews               2        1        50.00%
                  prepared




                                             40
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This economic analysis shows that the invested resources were translated into the outcomes
in an efficient manner. The economic and financial analysis for the project referred the
analyses related to the IDA operation and fast track initiative grant (IDA Credit number
3812-NIR and Grant number H060-NIR, BNPP TF053053, NETH 54461). Further, the
PAD lists the expected costs of each project component. This annex first provides an
economic assessment on efficiency of component 1, which shows that although costs of
construction are similar to other comparable projects undertaken in Niger. The subsequent
efficiency analysis of project component 2 finds substantial savings on costs of textbooks
compared to the projected. Component 3 is not covered by the economic analysis. Finally,
a short financial analysis is presented.

Economic evaluation of Component 1

The project built 294 classrooms of which 264 are semi-finished project schools, 10
classrooms are of the ERA-type in the regions Diffa and Tahoua, and 20 classrooms were
built in Niamey. Initially, 400 classrooms was planned to be built, but the number of
classrooms was reduced primarily due to lack of tax-exemption contracts, which was
assumed at appraisal. For the semi-finished classrooms, this additional cost due to no tax-
exemption corresponds to the cost of 63 classrooms. Thus, for the actual contract prices
obtained for the semi-finished classroom a total of 327 classrooms could have been built
(had tax-exemption been given), which is only slightly below the target of 345
classrooms. 15

The total cost of the school construction program (all taxes incl.) was X0F 2,709,604,168
(US$ 5,742,316) of which construction costs amount to X0F 2,322,709,108 (US$
4,922,390), and school furniture costs to X0F 386,895,060 (US$ 819,926). The average
unit cost of all classrooms built by the project is estimated to 103,753 X0F/m2 (US$ 220,
excl. labor, incl. taxes), which is 11% higher than the projected estimates of 93,449 X0F/m2
(198 US$/m2). 16 However, the difference between the forecasted and actual price is high,
largely because of the inclusion of taxes in the contract amounts. The ERA-type classrooms
were the most costly, which is explained by their locations, and the difficulties accessing
these areas as well as security issues in the regions.

Unit costs achieved by other projects over the same period confirm a similar trend. The
cost per m2 for the project’s semi-finished classroom was X0F 104.511 (US$ 221) and only
slightly above the m2-price of UNICEF classrooms of X0F 103,969 (US$ 220) for the same
type of program. On the other hand, the price per m2 of the classrooms built in Niamey was




15 264 semi-finished classrooms were built at a unit cost of X0F 7,031,488 resulting in a total cost of
1,856,312,832. Net of 24% tax the unit cost is 5,670,555, which gives 327 semi-finished classrooms at a total
cost of 1,854,271,432.
16
   Note technique relative aux Constructions et mobiliers scolaires (18-31 MARS 2012), p. 8.

                                                    41
X0F 102,969 (US$ 218), which is lower than the price of classrooms built by HIPC of
116.350 X0F/m2 (US$ 247), cf. . 17

                   Table 1 Comparison of construction costs by project
     Project                       Costs per classroom Cost per m2
                                   (X0F)                   (X0F/m2)
      PRODEFA (BID)                    6,862,500                      101,908
      HIPC                             7,828,023                      116,350
      UNICEF                           6,995,030                      103,969
      PAEB (incomp.)                   7,031,488                      104,511
      PAEB (finished)                  6,927,731                      102,969
     Source: Note technique relative aux Constructions et mobiliers scolaires (18-31
     MARS 2012), p. 9

For the project’s semi-finished classroom, the main structure of the buildings including the
roofs was financed by the government, leaving provision of windows, doors and other
items equivalent to about 10% of the cost of construction in the hands of communities. This
way of co-financing the new classrooms makes the communities able to use the classroom
structures earlier, rather than waiting for community financing to be ready before beginning
construction. The permanent classroom structures, which in many cases replaced temporary
structures, is expected to increase learning outcomes for students in these communities, as a
number of studies show a positive effect from quality of school buildings on learning
achievement. 18

Furthermore, the permanent structure of the classrooms brings financial savings to the
communities, as communities will no longer have to replace the temporary classrooms. The
estimated annual replacement cost for a temporary classroom is about X0F 160,000 (US$
339). 19 For the permanent structures, the construction costs per classroom for the semi-
finished classrooms are X0F 7,031,488 (US$ 14,901) including taxes. Taking out taxes (of
24%) in order to compare costs, the unit price for construction of a semi-finished classroom
amounts to 5,670,555, and the corresponding cost for communities of 10% is X0F 567,055
(US$ 1,202). Assuming that the permanent classroom structures can be used for 25 years,
this brings a saving to the communities of around X0F 1,954,287 (US$ 4,142) over a
period of 25 years. 20

In order to do an overall assessment of the net present value of the government
investments, a more detailed analysis on the change in benefits on learning outcomes,
enrollment, and completion of primary education is necessary. However, data and

17
   Note technique relative aux Constructions et mobiliers scolaires (18-31 MARS 2012), p. 8.
18
   The World Bank, Education in Sub-Saharan Africa – A comparative Analysis, 2012.
19
   Information on costs of rebuilding temporary classrooms received from the MEN: Costs varies between
X0F 150,000 and 200,000 (when supported by communities) and X0F 500,000 (when paid by government).
The cost of 160 000 X0F is obtained from the JICA-project.
20
   This is based on a simple NPV calculation for the community based on two scenarios of either a onetime
payment of X0F 567,055 in year 1, or annual payments of X0F 160,000 for 25 years assuming constant real
term prices on annual construction costs for temporary classrooms and a discount rate of 4%.

                                                   42
information necessary to do such calculations are not available at the moment of
completion of the ICR.

Component 1 of the project also supported information campaigns to increase awareness in
the population of the benefits of girls’ education. As a part of this program, the best
performing girls was awarded a prize. This program intended to address the poverty issue
in the communities, which prevents the enrollment of more girls in school and the
withdrawal of girls from school to engage in marriage. By removing the resource constraint
incentives were given in order for girls to continue education. One aspect points in
direction of success of this program, as the program was voluntarily adopted by a village,
which was not part of the project’s program. 21

Economic evaluation of Component 2

The second component of the project supported publication and distribution of textbooks
and other reading materials. The project delivered 412,259 textbooks corresponding to the
target set out by the PAD. Furthermore, 31,000 teachers’ guides have been delivered to
schools by the time of the ICR. 22 The unit cost for the textbooks bought by the project was
X0F 540 (US$ 1.1) for elementary and X0F 640 (US$ 1.4) for 6th grade. 23

According to the PAD, the projected unit costs for textbooks were X0F 900 for both types,
and actual prices are thus 40% and 29% lower respectively. Cost for textbooks and learning
materials were reduced by the decision of the government for INDRAP to author the
content while buying editorial skills and printing through competitive bidding. 24 This
eliminated the need to pay high costs for copyrights for materials that would have been
produced entirely by publishing companies. The distribution of the textbooks was done
using the current infrastructure in the regional offices combined with the COGES to ensure
that the textbooks reached the schools. 25

Financial Analysis
The education and training system in Niger is funded 89% by the national budget (incl.
support and debt cancellation repayments under the HIPC-program). The remaining 11%
comes from external support in the form of projects. 26 In 2010 the resource allocation to
the education sector accounted for 3.8% of GDP and 16.9% of government expenditure. 27

The majority of the budget allocated to education goes to basic education, and thus 68% of
public expenditure on education went to primary education in 2008. 28


21
   MEN field visit reports.
22
   Information from the MEN.
23
   Information received from accounting, MEN.
24
   Authoring was financed in the previous project.
25
   Project documents and Supervision Reports.
26
   World Bank, “Improving education and developing skills for economic growth in Niger?, July 2010, p.
XIV
27
   World Bank data: databank.worldbank.org
28
   World Bank, “Improving education and developing skills for economic growth in Niger?, July 2010, p. 48

                                                   43
The fiscal impact of this project primarily stems from the higher cost of the expanded
school system, i.e. the recurrent costs associated with the additional number of students
accommodated in the new classrooms. However, for the new classrooms that are replacing
temporary classrooms, the recurrent costs are only expected to be higher than prior costs to
the extent that the permanent buildings lead to a higher enrollment of children in primary
education. It is also possible that the permanent classrooms result in a fiscal saving due to
lower maintenance costs. Furthermore, replacement of furniture for the new classrooms,
maintenance costs for the new classrooms as well as replacement of textbooks is expected.
Due to lack of data on change in enrollment and recurrent spending prior to and after the
investments, the direct fiscal impact from the project is not calculated.




                                             44
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                   Names                        Title                                     Unit
                               Lending/Grant Preparation
       Johanne Angers          Senior Operations Officer                                 ECSH1
        Helene Bertaud         Senior Counsel                                            LEGAM
        Wolfgang M. T. Chadab Senior Finance Officer                                     CTRLA
       Cherif Diallo           Sr Implementation Spec.                                   AFTEW
        Mohamed I. Diaw        Operations Assistant                                      CFPTO
        Suzanne Essama         Operations Officer                                        AFTDE
        Donald B. Hamilton     Consultant                                                AFTEW
       Karima Laouali Ladjo    Program Assistant                                         AFMNE
       Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi Senior Procurement Specialist                             AFTPW
       Abdoul-Wahab Seyni      Senior Social Development Spec                            AFTCS
       Mamadou Yaro            Sr Financial Management Specialist                        AFTMW
                                       Supervision
       Donald B. Hamilton       Consultant                                               AFTEW
       Karima Laouali Ladjo     Program Assistant                                        AFMNE
       Ibrah Rahamane Sanoussi Senior Procurement Specialist                             AFTPW
       Abdoul-Wahab Seyni       Senior Social Development Spec                           AFTCS
       Fily Sissoko             Lead Financial Management Spec                           AFTMW
       Nko Etesin Umoren        Resource Management Analyst                              AFTRM
       Souleymane Zerbo         Consultant                                               AFTEW

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending*
                                 Total:                   0.00                             0.00
Supervision/ICR
                                 Total:                   1.06                             6.2
*Given the relatively short preparation time, funding was provided from other sources.




                                                     45
                 Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

REPORT OF THE NATIONAL VALIDATION WORKSHOP ON THE BASIC
EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT (BESP) REPORT EVALUATION

The national review workshop on the Basic Education Support Project (BESP) evaluation
report was held on Tuesday 30 October 2012, in the Palais des Sports in Niamey, under the
chairmanship of the Director of Planning and Studies, representing the Secretary General of
the Ministry of National Education, Literacy and the Promotion of National Languages.
National and Regional Directors and Technical staff as well as representatives of School
management committees (SMCs or COGES), parent teacher associations (PTAs), various
civil society associations, and National Primary School Teacher Training Schools attended
the workshop.

The discussions focused on the review and approval of the draft assessment report of the
BESP. The following points were discussed: (i) the context and objectives of the
completion report; (ii) the methodology used for the design of the report; (iii) a restatement
of the BESP design; (iv) the presentation and analysis of the project results, experiences,
client satisfaction; (v) challenges encountered; (v) description of the arrangements for
future operations; and (vi) conclusions.

In general, it was found that the BESP was implemented collaboratively by contract project
managers and staff from the national and decentralized units of the basic education sub-
sector. Other topics listed below were discussed to reflect on how certain issues related to
the preparation of the ICR should be treated. These included:

   •   the legal status and responsibilities of SMCs or Comités de Gestion des Ecole
       Scolaires (COGES);
   •   the sustainability of the achievements of previous projects as foundations for future
       activities/approaches;
   •   the use of testimonies vs. quantitative data to assess achievement of indicators;
   •   how to use the experience of JICA which has also supported SMCs;
   •   the project must be shown to contribute to improving the target indicators;
   •   effectiveness, efficiency in the use of resources in reference to the results and then
       draw lessons from the experience;
   •   the need to systematize the achievements, to quantify (verify that project
       classrooms were being used, provide evidence of improved learning conditions,
       number of textbooks distributed, proper use of latrines and hygiene kits);
   •   whether the training of SMCs in micro-planning helped them to develop Local
       Action Plans (LAP);
   •   to what extent have the outreach campaigns increased the access of girls to school;
   •   awareness and training of practicing teachers on the new pedagogical program
       have facilitated the reception of trainees from ENI in practice schools since they
       helped to reconcile their differences in teaching methodology;
   •   building engineers (BTP) worked without their own means of support from the
       project;

                                             46
   •   more latrines, water points, offices and stores are needed in schools.

The workshop made the following suggestions that should be taken into account in the
assessment of the project results. Some ideas can be considered as possible strategic
options that could be improved. The following points were made:

   •   PERs should show traceability of education resources;
   •   by organizing awareness campaigns and training in micro-planning, the original
       philosophy was to include AMEs in the preparation and implementation of LAPs;
   •   creating a framework for discussions among girls’ education focal points since
       their reports are not currently available to a wider audience.
   •   providing school retention and achievements rewards directly to enrolled girls, to
       help reduce the high dropout rates, early marriage and undesired pregnancies of
       students;
   •   preparing an orientation framework document for girls’ education that focal points
       could use to expand awareness of the issues;
   •   stimulating girls' schooling through film media (following the experience of some
       NGOs);
   •   creating host centers (CARE International in Maradi in progress) that would deal
       with tutoring problems, mini colleges, host families for students at schools away
       from home;
   •   strengthening the capacity of SMCs to develop home grown initiatives;
   •   empowering EMAs, traditional authorities (to stop the marriage of schoolgirls);
   •   organizing activities and provide awards for excellence that would increase incomes
       for poor households;
   •   the risk of entrusting funds to SMCs which have no clear legal status for the direct
       acquisition of supplies should be addressed;
   •   undertaking initiatives for the introduction of educational inputs in targeted areas
       with low enrollment should be established and maintained;
   •   promoting preparation of local action plans but focusing on quality;
   •   using verifiable indicators as a theme in the transformation of resources into
       educational outcomes is still valid;
   •   understanding that the purpose of investments in education is to ensure effective
       schooling and improve educational outcomes;
   •   training of teachers should be professional and linked to the new approach. The
       original philosophy was to reach the two categories for supporting student teachers
       in the classroom. Expansion has substantially helped older teachers who are now
       better prepared to interact more constructively with the new trained teachers.
   •   The manuals have improved the textbook/student ratios and the teaching/learning
       process including classroom practice.

What are the options for dealing with the situation of the late delivery of booklets so that
the students would benefit from them.




                                            47
Regarding infrastructure, some of the evolutive classrooms have not yet been completed by
some communities because poverty has prevented them from raising the remaining 7 or 8%
of costs. The Government is aware of this and a variety of options are being explored to try
out in the upcoming project.

In reference to the context of the implementation of BESP the future project will require
the recruitment of an additional technician and a permanent office for civil works in each
region. This will help meet the needs for proper local supervision. It should also empower
regions and provide them with adequate resources to operate efficiently. The delays in the
construction program in the BESP reflect inadequate support at the local level because the
capacity provided under PADEB that should have supported them was no longer available.
There were also delays because of the late notice of non-compliance of tenders with the
Bank procedures and the political impasse in which the country was engulfed, which
impacted the market for building materials negatively.

The capture of the French General as a hostage also created a psychosis in the northern part
of the country. For procurement, the only problems were related to not meeting deadlines.
The basic problem was related to the management of contracts on the Nigerian side
because of new procedures to prevent fraud following the previous experiences in the
pooled fund. The Paris Declaration suggests moving towards a harmonization of
procedures of the World Bank and national ones, but this is yet to be achieved.




Done in Niamey 10/31/2012

 Reporters :                                        Director :
 Yahaya MAMADO                                      Abdourahamane Daouda, Director
of Planning and Studies (DEP)
Oumarou SEIDOU NOAGA




                                            48
       Annex 6. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive Summary of the PAEB completion report

Background and rationale of the operation set-up

After the summits held in Dakar and Bamako in 2000, Niger committed itself to reform its
education system. This reform led to the development of the PPDE (2003/2013). The
PDDE was designed to implement the provisions of the Law No. 98-12 of June 1, 1998 on
the development of the education system. To finance this ambitious program, Niger made
two key assumptions: (i) a substantial allocation of state resources to the education sector,
particularly in the area of basic education. Thus, according to the commitments made by
Niger to the summit of heads of state of the six countries with the lowest education
indicators, (Bamako 2000), the State pledged to allocate: (a) at least 4% of GDP in
education, (b) 40% of the amount of resources freed by debt relief under the HIPC
initiative to promote universal primary education, and (c) at least 50% of the education
budget to primary education; (ii) the support of the international community to mobilize
additional resources in the context of the initiative for the accelerated implementation of
Education for All.

The Basic Education Support Project (PAEB) was formulated to provide the additional
resources to meet system needs. The total of four billion francs (4 000 000 000 FCFA,
needed was part of the objectives of the Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper (PRSP) and the
Ten Year Education Development Program. However, the preparation of the project,
fulfillment of the conditions for effectiveness and implementation of the project were
affected by the political situation and the central management changes that prevailed before
and after the coup of February 18, 2010.

II. Project Description

The project consists of three components as follows:
Component 1: Improving access to primary education and equity in the field through:
i) the construction and equipment of classrooms and latrines, mainly in rural areas;




                                             49
   ii) the organization of information campaigns to raise people’s awareness on the benefits of
   girls' education together with the promotion of outreach campaign; and
   iii) the offer of rewards to promote girls’ education at the regional level.


   Component 2: Improving the quality of primary education through:
        i)   the publication and distribution of textbooks and other reading materials;
        ii) the formulation and implementation of a pre-service and inset training program for
             teachers and inspectors; and
        iii) the direct purchase of school supplies by SMCs.


   Component 3: Capacity management at central and local levels, through:
        i)   capacity-building of SMCs in planning and participatory school management and
        ii) capacity-building of staff of the Ministry in public expenditure reviews


   III. Project Costs

   3.1. Project costs by categories including budget reallocations
                                                                                               Financing rate
                              Project      Budget        Budget     Needs in
              Description
Category                      initial      after 1st    after 2nd Reallocation Initial             1st           2nd
             of categories
                              Budget     reallocation reallocation by category Budget         reallocation   reallocation
                               8   000     8      000      8      000
TOTAL                        000         000             000              0           100%      100%            100%
             Goods,Works
    1        Cons & TRN      5 650 000    5 864 867       5 792 867      142 867 70,63%         73,31%          72,41%
                Part 1
             Goods,Works
    2        Cons & TRN      1 350 000         955 260    1 027 260      -322 740 16,88%        11,94%          12,84%
                Part 2

             Goods,Works
    3        Cons & TRN        230 000         238 837         238 837        8 837   2,88%     2,99%           2,99%
              Part 2 (iii)

             Goods,Works
    4        AUD, OP &         770 000         941 036         941 036   171 036      9,63%     11,76%          11,76%
                TRN
              Designated
  DA-A
               Account
Exchange rate Client connection: 1 USD = 499,358325 FCFA at the date of 02/02/2012




                                                          50
3.2. Project costs by component

                                                              Amount (in          Amount (in
                       Components                            thousands of        thousands of
                                                             CFA francs)           dollars)
Component 1 : Improving access to primary education
                                                               2 827 599,29             5 655,20
and equity
Component 2: Improving quality of primary education              785 525,95            1 571,052
Component 3: Capacity building in Management at
                                                                     386 875                733,75
central and local level
Total project cost
                                                                   4 000 000                 7 960

IV. Project Analysis

4.1. Operational performance
    The project contributed to the implementation of the PDDE through:
   - Increasing access to formal basic education especially for rural children and girls;
   - Improving the quality of teaching;
   - Capacity development in operational management for the central administration and
   the increased responsibilities to local communities.

4.2. Institutional Performance

The PAEB was managed by a joint team of senior officials and contractors of the MEN
recruited based on their specific skills. The Secretary-General was responsible for the
overall coordination of the project. The project was managed in accordance with the
implementation manuals and procedures. All expenditures were made with the approval of
the IDA and according to the procedures of the World Bank. Eligibility of the activities of
the directorates and/or related services for financing was related to their inclusion in the
physical and financial program budget and schedule of activities of the MEN. The
execution of some activities was subject to obtaining a no objection notice from IDA. The
quarterly monitoring financial reports and those relating to external audits were regularly
sent to IDA for review and comments.


At the closing date of the project, all of the contracts had been awarded in accordance with
Section 2.06 of the Grant Agreement entitled "procurement" related to the general and

                                             51
specific procedures for procurement of goods, works and consulting services. .
Project management faced a number of challenges including:
    •   lack of a full time permanent procurement specialist
To compensate for this the institutional arrangements for PAEB provided for the
recruitment of a part time contract procurement specialist.


    •   The disbursement of the Grant’s funds N°TF094742
Normally, the disbursement of the Grant funds required that spending (procurement of
goods, works and services) would be exempt from all taxes. However, the Grant agreement
for PAEB stipulated in Article III, Section 3.1 that "(i) the goods, works and consulting
services under components 1, 2 and 3 of the project including training" be paid inclusive of
100% of all taxes. The inclusion of taxes and other fees on project expenditures, which was
a choice of the Government, significantly reduced the number of classrooms and equipment
that could be financed.


V. Analysis of the results achieved by the project

Implementation of the project achieved the following results:
• 294 classrooms built and equipped, distributed as follows: 10 in 2 blocks of classrooms,
264 in semi-finished structure into 88 blocks of 3 classrooms and 10 classrooms in ERA
type;
• 108 blocks of latrines built (88 with 3 compartments and 20 with 2 compartments);
• 3 monitoring missions organized on social and environmental issues to identify and verify
the classroom construction sites, on the one hand, and to identify the potential negative
social and environmental effects/impacts and to propose mitigation measures, on the other
hand;
•   4 supervision and monitoring missions on the works organized by the central level;
•   one outreach and awareness campaign organized in each of the 9 departments with the
    lowest GERs to better understand the views of the communities regarding the benefits
    of girls' education;
•   awards of excellence to 417 best performing girls who succeeded in obtaining the
    CFEPD in 139 municipalities in 23 priority areas of intervention;

                                             52
•   412,260 French books (grammar, spelling, conjugation) (228 782 to EC and 183 478 to
    CM) edited procured and distributed;
• preparation, procurement and distribution of 31,000 teacher guides in French for EC and
CM (grammar, spelling, conjugation);
• 80 schools in the Department of Konni supplied with school materials through direct
purchase by SMCs;
• 3,100 school teachers from teaching practice schools trained in the new ENI pedagogical
programs;
• 7 hygiene kits and sanitation acquired;
• An awareness mission organized on the use of latrines in schools;
• 3 executives of the MEN trained in the field of public expenditure review;
• 5,520 COGES members trained in micro-planning, i.e. 3 members by COGES from the
80 schools selected in each of the 23 priority areas of intervention;
• 40 members of ERA COGES from the Diffa region trained in participatory school
management.

Analysis of the results achieved showed that:
The infrastructures built and equipped allowed: (i) replacement of classrooms built with
straws; (ii) making the school environment more attractive, (iii) establishing 14,750 new
places, and (iv) improving the teaching/learning environment. However, the project could
only build 294 classrooms during its implementation for the following reasons:


The PAEB was designed as a sequel of the PADEB and the building technicians (BTPs) of
the PADEB were supposed to have been maintained to ensure smooth execution of the
PAEB. This did not happen for the following reasons: - The vehicles for the field missions
of the building technicians inherited from PADEB and which should have been used for the
PAEB were obsolete and unusable and the cost of their maintenance and repairs was overly
delayed;
- Often, there were long delays in issuing the no-objection notices from the World Bank.
There were also inconsistencies between the opinions of national structures and those of
the World Bank; which prolonged the approval process even more;


                                              53
- Contract management was affected in some areas where the Governors delayed the
signing of contracts;
-   Equipment for supervision of sites was made available to Building technicians two
    months before the closure of the project;
-   The MEN/A/PLN suspension of action to see if the Ministry of Finance would pay the
    taxes or grant an exemption on works significantly impacted on the timeframe;
-   Lack of regional accounting staff also overloaded building technicians who had to
    undertake some of the tasks they would have carried out and project accountants at the
    national level took a long time to process accounts. .
Awareness campaigns on access, retention and performance of girls at school allowed
target populations who are still reluctant with regards to the modern school system to:
-   Better understand the issue of girls' education, especially its benefits;
-   Identify specific constraints in the different localities visited through interpersonal
    communication (outreach exchange) including, among others, the high opportunity
    costs to families, inadequate provision of required facilities at the secondary level, the
    recurrent food crises and the lack of separate latrines in some schools.


    Indeed, the results of these campaigns resulted in a significant increase in girls’
enrollment. As examples, the GIR of Dosso, Doutchi, and Tessaoua Madaoua, respectively
increased from 83.9%, 82.9%, 92.1% and 77.6% in 2009/2010 to 87.1 %; 84.4%, 93.7%
and 86.4% in 2010/2011, which represent              3.2, 1.5, 6.1 and 8.8 percentage points
respectively. Regarding the average GER in these 9 target departments, it increased from
67.6% in 2009/2010 to 70.5% in 2010/2011, which is an increase of 2.9 percentage points.


The main result of the awards to the 417 best performing girls who succeeded to CFEPD is
equipping these students with school kits for the first year of secondary school consisting
of notebooks, pens, books (reading, grammar, spelling math, English), a small Larousse
dictionary and other items, all of which motivated them to continue their studies.


French textbooks (grammar, conjugation, spelling) acquired through the project were made
available to 593,963 EC students and 429,040 CM students at the end of the school year

                                                54
2011/2012. Unfortunately, the availability of these manuals coincided with the end of the
project, so it has not been possible to measure the effects of these teaching materials on
improving classroom practice of teachers, on the one hand and student achievement in this
subject, on the other hand. However, it should be noted that the grammar manual/student
ratio which was nearly zero has been improved to one book for three students in CE and
one book for two students in CM. The field survey noted that the manuals reached their
destination according to the planned distribution.


The training of teachers from the schools receiving the newly trained teachers was
welcomed by the teachers’ supervisors (ENI trainers, Inspectors and Pedagogical Advisors).
These efforts yielded the following results:         (i) ownership by student and practicing
teachers of the new approach to teachers’ training offered in the ENI; (ii) better support of
newly trained teachers during internships; (iii) sharing of experiences between newly
trained teachers from the national training schools and teachers in the field; (iv) change in
classroom practices for teachers in the field, especially in terms of organization of teaching;
and (v) the continuation of these exchanges through training topics during CAPED
meetings.


Capacity building of senior staff of the Ministry in the field of Public Expenditure Review
(PER) allowed the technical team of the Ministry in charge of the development of the PER
to: (i) appropriate tools and approach for preparation of the report of the PER, and (ii)
prepare the 2009 PER report;


Capacity building of SMCs in planning and participatory school management allowed: (i)
community involvement in school management, (ii) the development of local action plans
incorporating a girls' education component, and (iii) the financing of these action plans by
the community. It was observed from the analysis of the action plans developed by the
schools that they have mainstreamed girls’ education in their activities. These include,
among others, educational support for girls having learning difficulties (tutoring), buying
school supplies, awarding prizes for excellence to the best students at all levels of
education, constructing separate latrines for girls/boys.

                                              55
The direct purchase of school supplies has also been very successful. This experience has
allowed the communities to: (i) adopt improved procurement procedures, (ii) acquire in a
relatively short time, school supplies, and (iii) capture the mechanisms of public
expenditures and (iv) master the tools of inventory management. In other words, the
communities have felt completely empowered through this experience.

Despite these good results, the contracts for the purchase of 373,967 school manuals (math
and French) and 96,000 units of self-learning materials could not be completed before May
31, 2012, closing date of the project activities. The firms which were awarded the contracts
could not honor their commitments in a timely manner.

In conclusion, the overall project is rated satisfactory because it has contributed to the
evolution of the main PDDE indicators (see table below).

                                                        Performance to 31
                                      2009 Baseline                              Target
            Main indicators                               December 2011
1 Gross Enrolment Rate (GER)             67,80%               76,10%             70,00%

2 Percentage of girls enrolled           43,10%               44,20%             44,00%

3 GER in rural areas                     64,40%               70,00%             70,00%
    Primary Completion Rate
4                                        48,20%               51,20%             48,00%
    (PCR)
5 Promotion rates                        82,60%               89,50%             86,60%
Source : Department of Statistics MEN/A/PLN (Yearbook 2011).

VI. Financial performance Analysis

Management of the project was marked by a high rate of absorption of financial resources
at 96.34%. The delays in the procurement of goods and services on the one hand, and, in
the delivery of some orders, on the other hand necessitated the budget reallocation in
November 18, 2011. Through this reallocation, the World Bank extended the closing date
of the project from 30 November 2011 to 31 May 2012. At project completion, the World
Bank had disbursed the sum of 3,853,729,295 CFA francs or 96.4% of the 4 billion CFA
francs grant.

                                             56
VII. Evaluation of the government and World Bank performance

7. 1. Evaluation of the government performance

Performance of the Government of Niger during project implementation can be summed up
from the results of the annual financial audits required in section 4.02 of the Grant
arrangements signed between the Government of Niger and IDA and the implementation
manual in the section entitled "Objectives of the audit" especially in section 6.3.2, 6.3.3
and 6.3.5.

In addition to performing financial audits, MEN/A/PLN produced and made available to
IDA on a regular basis the project monthly, quarterly and semi-annual progress reports
based on reference indicators for the monitoring of physical and financial activities of the
project. The coordination unit of the PAEB carried out all corrective actions agreed with
IDA to address the deficiencies observed during implementation to ensure achievement of
the project objectives.

Performance of the MEN/A/PLN is also reflected in the scrupulous observance of the
manual of procedures and implementation arrangements. Based on the agreed documents
for periodical monitoring and evaluation, the Ministry organized regular MEN/PTF Joint
Reviews from 2010 to 2012, which provided a framework for dialogue and exchange
between partners in the education sector. The recommendations from these reviews helped
guide the program of the Government in general and the implementation of the project
specifically towards improved effectiveness and efficiency.

7.2. Evaluation of the World Bank performance


IDA performance can be assessed in relation to its commitments, which consisted of
helping the Government of Niger to design and prepare the project, to establish the
management unit and to replenish the PAEB accounts as well as to support it through
advice during project implementation. The latter was carried out in partnership with other
donors through by dialogue, consultations and discussions from which relevant findings
emanated which contributed to the achievement of the education sector development

                                              57
objectives as recorded in the PDDE reports. Weaknesses noted in IDA performance relate
to   delays in the issuance of the no-objection notices following submission of the
documents.


VIII. Lessons learned

Positive results from the technical and financial support of the PAEB are undoubtedly: (i)
support for close pedagogical mentoring, (ii) capacity building for central and decentralized
senior officials, (iii) support for teachers’ inset training through the competency based
approach, (iv) grants to participatory management structures (SMCs/EMA), and (v) support
for the promotion of girls’ education.

IX. Difficulties encountered

The main problems encountered in the implementation of the project were:
• the delayed provision of funds to regions for Excellence Award resulted in the delays in
the provision kits until three months after the start of the school year;
• the impact of duties and taxes on the project expenditures and targets;
• delays in the production of expenditure vouchers in the PAEB;
• Low rate of skills transfer to senior officials of the MEN by building technicians;
•the long delays on the part of IDA in providing non-objection of procurement and
contracts because of their complexity, and;
•lack of counterpart funds for the project from the investment budget of the State


X. Description of the arrangements for a future operation

To deal with the difficulties faced in the project implementation, the assessment suggests:


       •   Promotion of a participatory approach in project development:
The results of the field survey revealed that the preparation of the PAEB could have been
more participatory through greater involvement of communities, especially where their
contribution was expected e.g. implementation of the school construction program.



                                              58
       •   To take into account the impact of including all taxes in the purchases of
           goods and services while negotiating projects
The PAEB Grant agreement required the inclusion of taxes in the procurement of goods,
works and consultants' services under components 1, 2 and 3 of the project. Inclusion of
taxes and other fees in project financing led to a drastic decrease in the number of facilities
that could be built. Provide the counterpart funds for the project in the State
investment budget
Inclusion of counterpart funds for the project in the State investment budget would have
allowed financing of some key expenditures, especially during the grace period of the
project.
       •   Recruit regional accountants to improve the level of absorption of funds
Analysis of the results of the field survey revealed that the absence of regional accountants
delayed the payment of advances and settlement of bills. The system as it worked led to a
centralization of administrative and financial procedures.
       •   Strengthen the team of building technicians (BTPs) at the regional level by
           recruiting one or two professional officers.
The terms of reference of the building technicians required them to work at a certain pace.
They supported the Regional Directorate in the construction of all infrastructures and
school facilities funded by the national budget and the technical and financial partners. In
view of the importance of the planned construction of school facilities with financing from
the new GPE application, it would be necessary to strengthen the team of building
technicians at both central and regional levels.




                                              59
       Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The Basic Education Support Project (BESP) was developed in order to bring additional
resources in the implementation of the Government Program. At project completion, it
appears that the eight million Dollars, i.e. four billion CFA Francs (4,000,000,000) have
significantly contributed to the recent progress recorded in the education sector in Niger.
This contribution was made particularly in the component related to access to education
through the construction and furnishing of 294 classrooms and 108 latrine blocks and also
the initiatives taken to improve girls’ access to education. Regarding the quality component
which remains the main challenge of the education sector in Niger, the procurement of
412,260 Grammar textbooks and teachers’ guides made it possible to improve the teaching
environment. The training of more than 5,000 members of the COGES also permitted
efforts to sustain the decentralization agenda and the involvement of the communities in the
management of the schools which still is one of the central priority areas in the education
development strategy in Niger. The achievements of the Project were extremely valuable,
especially given that they were achieved in a difficult and unstable political and
institutional context. From the development phase to its implementation, there were three
Heads of State and the same number of Cabinet reshuffles and substantial changes in the
key staff at central and deconcentrated levels of administration during the 18 months
planned implementation period. Both the coup d’etat of February 2010 and the various
elections that followed created the institutional instability that was a major impediment in
the implementation of several projects, and some projects were cancelled in spite of the
firm willingness to spend the resources.

The development and implementation of BESP was done in a participatory manner. In the
implementation phase, the various actors, including the technical and financial partners
were regularly informed of the supervision missions and the aide-mémoires were widely
disseminated after those missions. The performance of the project was reported through
annual reports submitted to the Ministry and these reports were presented during the joint
annual reviews which brought together Government officials and representatives of the
civil society and the Technical and Financial Partners (TFP) of the education sector. The
relevant outcomes of these evaluations were shared and discussed during the joint review.
Thus, the evaluation report on the direct procurement of school supplies by the COGES
was presented at the 2011 joint review. Considering the satisfactory outcomes of this pilot
phase, the Development Partners are planning to extend this approach to all the other
regions. The preparation of the new GPE Project is an opportunity for this extension. The
procurement of school supplies by the communities turned out to be efficient and effective.
It allows the students to get their supplies as early as possible in the school year without the
delays which were usually noted when school supplies were procured at the central level
and taken to the schools throughout the whole country. The supplies procured also
corresponded to the needs of the schools and the students, and they are generally cheaper.

Generally, the lessons learned from this project will inform the development and execution
of the new GPE project under preparation.




                                              60
                   Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Serge Theunynck, School Construction Strategies for Universal Primary Education
in Africa - Should Communities be empowered to build their schools? World Bank,
2009.

2. The World Bank, Education in Sub-Saharan Africa – A Comparative Analysis,
2012.

3. The Role of Cognitive Skills in Economic Development. Eric A. Hanushek, Ludger
Woessmann. Journal of Economic Literature 2008,46(3), pp. 607-668.

4. Project Appraisal Document On A Proposed Development Credit In The Amount
Of SDR 4.1 Million (US$5.62 Million Equivalent) And A Development Grant In The
Amount Of SDR 17.7 Million (US$24.38 Million Equivalent) To The Republic Of
Niger For A Basic Education Project. World Bank June 20,2003

5. Republic of Niger, Minister of Education Literacy and Promotion of National
Languages (MENAL) 2012. 'Technical Note on the Construction and school furniture'.
18-31 March 2012.

8. Republic Of Niger, Minister of Education Literacy And Promotion Of National
Languages (Menal) 2012. 'Evaluation Report Of The Direct Method Of Acquisition By
School Supplies COGES Experienced In The Department Of Konni Compared With
The Classic Method Of Acquisition And Distribution Of Supplies By Central Level

9. Republic of Niger, Ministry of Education Literacy and the Promotion of National
Languages 2012. 'Assessment Report of the Project to Support Basic Education
(PAEB)'. October 2012.

10. Statistical Yearbook (2007-2008) Ministry of Education (2008), Niamey, DSI / 348
pages

11. Statistical Yearbook (2008-2009) Ministry of Education (2009), Niamey, DSI. 473
pages.

12. Statistical Yearbook (2009-2010) Ministry of Education, Literacy and National
Languages Promotion (2010), Niamey, DS.

13. Statistical Yearbook (2010-2011) Ministry of Education, Literacy and National
Languages Promotion (2011), Niamey, DS / 531 pages

14. Preliminary Statistics Yearbook (2012) Ministry of Education, Literacy and
National Languages Promotion (2012), Niamey, DS.

15. Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports.

                                       61
                                                                                                                                                                                  10°E                                                                         15°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             L I B YA
                                          NIG ER                                                                                                                                      To Djanet                                                              To Tajarhi


                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                        ALGERIA
                                     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      NIGER

                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Madama

                                     MAIN ROADS

                                     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                            T é
                                                                                                         To Tamanrasset
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                             20°N
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                                                n é
                                                                                                                                                                Mont Greboun
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                               (1,944 m )                                       A G A D E Z
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    r é
                         0      50        100    150         200 Kilometers                                                                                  Air Mts.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    D e
                                                                                                                                             Arlit                                                                                          Bilma
                         0            50          100             150 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                                        s e r
                                                                 MALI




                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                         Agadez
                                                                                                                                     Ingal
                                                                                                    TAHOUA                                                                                                                                  D I F F A
                                                 To                                                                  Tchin-
                                                Gao                                                                  Tabaradene




                   °N
                 15∞ N                                                                                                                                                            ZINDER                                                                           CHAD
                                                                                                    Tahoua                                                           Tanout                                                                                                   15°N
                                                                                                                     Keïta
                                                                  TILLABÉRI
                                 To                                Tillabéri                          Illéla                             Dakoro
                                                                                                                             Bouza
                             Ouahigouya
                                                      Téra                               Filingué
                                                                                                                                     MARADI                  S           a           h Gouré e                     l               Nguigmi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s.
                                                                    Nig




                                                                                                     Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                     Konni                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                        er




                                                                             NIAMEY                                                                                      Zinder                                        a
                                   NIAMEY                                                                                                            Aguié




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                 Kollo                                                                                                                                 Maïné- Diffa
                                                                                                                                         Maradi                                                                        Soroa
                                                                                         Dosso                                                                                                                                   1963 Level
                                                                                                            To                                                         Magaria                                                    1973 Level                          Lake
                   BURKINA                                                            DOSSO              Kontagora                                                                                                                  2001 Level                        Chad
SEPTEMBER 2004




                    FASO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33457
                                                            To
                                                        Ouagadougou
                                                                                                                                                                          NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                       Kaduna
                                     0°                                          BENIN               5°E                                                                           10∞
                                                                                                                                                                                   10 °E
                                                                                                                                                                                       E                                                                              15∞
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15 °E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
