Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4526 
Operation Name 
SIR DPL3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (45%);Health (45%);Other social 
services (10%) 
Project ID 
P115400 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
Republic of Bulgaria 
Ministry of Finance 
102 Rakovski Street 
Bulgaria 
Tel: 359 2 9859 2441 Fax: 359 2 980 6863 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
102 Rakovski Str. 
Sofia 
Bulgaria 
Tel: +359298592709  Fax: +359298592702 
N.Cholakova@Minfin.Bg 
Date PID Prepared 
February 6, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 23, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
May 14, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Social Sectors Institutional Reform (SIR) DPL series support the 
Government’s reform 
agenda to increase employment and lay the foundations for long-term productivity growth by 
providing incentives for job creation and improving quality of education and promote fiscal 
sustainability through efficiency gains in the social sectors.
 
Following accession to the European Union, a major challenge for Bulgaria has been a low 
labor force participation and employment rate. 
The employment rate remains low compared 
to the EU-15 and most new EU Member States and substantially below the EU Lisbon target rate 
of 70 percent by 2010. Accelerated private sector growth in recent years has contributed to 
increases in employment and falls in unemployment; however, a significant share of the 
population aged 15-64 remains economically inactive – in particular youth and older workers 
and those with low levels of education and skills.  At the same time, the workforce is aging and 
the demographic decline sets limitations for its renewal.  While unemployment has fallen to 
record low levels in 2008, the expected economic downturn in the wake of the global financial 
crisis risks triggering a reversal in the labor market and complicating further employment 
activation of disadvantaged workers. 
 
Page  2
Supported by the SIR DPL series, Bulgaria has participated in international student 
assessments which show that education outcomes are low compared to benchmark 
countries in the European Union. 
Prior to the DPL series, the information on quality of 
education in Bulgaria was sparse, and recent external assessments have shown that student 
achievements are poor, and raising them requires sustained reforms and further investments in 
diagnostic instruments to assess learning outcomes. Moreover, too many students still drop out 
without completing secondary education: over one-fifth of youth leave school with only lower 
secondary compared to 7.5 percent in the other new EU Member States. 
 
While Bulgaria is experiencing a demographic transition, with the school-age population 
shrinking substantially, a generous education infrastructure had remained from before the 
transition. 
Student numbers declined by more than 25 percent in the period between 1992 and 
2005. While municipalities had been closing down schools during this period in response to the 
decline, there was no systematic plan to adapt to this demographic transition, leading to declining 
student-teacher ratios and growing per student costs.  Prior to the initiation in 2006 of the 
reforms supported by the DPL series, there were a large number of schools that operated with 
very low student-teacher ratios, e.g. about 31 percent of municipal schools operated with ratios 
below 11 in 2005
—both in rural and urban areas. In addition, (i) the stock of non-teaching 
personnel reflected recruitment practices that did not necessarily follow cost-effectiveness 
considerations; and (ii) the financing mechanism in place until the end of 2006 —whereas local 
authorities’ freedom to adjust human and capital resources is limited and resource allocation to 
schools is determined exclusively at the central level— failed to create incentives for an efficient 
management of resources. DPL 1 and DPL 2 have supported the introduction of per student 
financing – which has triggered a substantial consolidation of the school network which is 
ongoing – and delegated budgets which have led to a greater efficiency of spending and are 
expected to lay the ground for improvements in education outcomes. 
 
Health service provision has been inefficient and the National Health Insurance Fund 
(NHIF) has faced financial sustainability concerns. 
More than ten years after the passing of 
the health insurance law, health outcomes are showing a reversion in the negative trend observed 
during the 1990s, but at the outset of the DPL series in 2006 it was also apparent that many 
aspects of the original plan required additional fine-tuning and that some of the main reforms are 
yet to be completed. In recent years the NHIF has faced several key threats to its financial 
sustainability, including: (i) an ineffective allocation of resources to hospitals and payment to 
physicians, using a mechanism that set no limit in the volume of services and therefore resulted 
in significant growth in hospital spending; (ii) a large hospital infrastructure that continues to 
grow (both public and private), is not based on needs assessment, and puts pressure on NHIF 
spending since it is mandated to sign contracts with all hospitals; and (iii) rapid expenditure 
growth on pharmaceuticals, which are also responsible for a large share of out-of-pocket 
spending by the poor.  Supported by the DPL series, important progress has been made since 
2006 with respect to containing the growth of hospital spending and rationalizing the 
pharmaceuticals pricing system, yet further steps are necessary to improve the NHIF’s fiscal 
sustainability. 
 
The completion of the third phase of the SIR DPL program takes place in times of 
heightened economic risks resulting from a worsening global economic environment in the 
Page  3
wake of the global financial and economic crisis.
 
Bulgaria’s economic growth is forecast to 
decline in 2009 and 2010 compared to 2008, and the Government is focusing on a dual strategy 
of (i) maintaining a prudent fiscal stance to ensure the continued cushion of a sizable fiscal 
surplus and (ii) continued structural reforms in the framework of the EU Lisbon Jobs and Growth 
Strategy to increase competitiveness and raise productivity so as to emerge stronger from the 
economic downturn.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
This operation is the third phase in a series of three DPLs and marks the continuation of a 
reform process in education, health and social protection and employment supported by 
SIR DPL 1 and SIR DPL 2. 
The series has been designed to support the Government of 
Bulgaria (GoB) to meet some of the challenges associated with EU accession —in the case of 
DPL 1— and post-accession —DPL 2 and 3. The DPL series support the adoption and 
implementation of policies to (i) increase employment and lay the foundations for long-term 
productivity growth by providing incentives for job creation and improving quality of education 
and; (ii) promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency gains in the social sectors. At the same 
time, the DPL 3 takes account of Bulgaria’s prospect of a period of economic downturn and 
considerable uncertainty triggered by the turmoil in the global financial markets, raising the need 
for adequate measures to cushion the negative employment and social impacts and to ensure a 
prudent fiscal stance.  The actions supported by the DPL series are expected to contribute to 
laying the ground for an increased speed of convergence with EU policies and standards in the 
medium term, enhanced competitiveness through increased skills of the labor force and better 
investment climate, and more efficient health, education, and social assistance systems. 
Specifically, the objectives of the reform strategy supported by the DPL program are to be 
achieved through the implementation of policies and actions oriented towards 
·
Creating opportunities and incentives for individuals to join the labor market and to move 
to higher productivity jobs, improving the institutional and regulatory framework —so 
that it is easier for companies to start new businesses and to hire workers, and for labor to 
be mobile – and measures to address adverse employment effects triggered by the 
expected economic downturn in the wake of the financial crisis; 
·
Changing the finance and governance system for primary and secondary education to 
promote improved quality of education and enhance the efficiency of resource use, and 
improving the capacity of education authorities to assess quality of education and use 
information critically to improve the education system; 
·
Revising the financing mechanism in the health sector to make the system financially 
sustainable and lay the ground for improving its quality; preparing a plan for 
restructuring the health facilities network; using insurance administrative systems to 
improve the efficiency of health expenditures; and making purchasing and reimbursement 
policies for pharmaceuticals more rational; and  
·
Promoting monitoring and evaluation of policies. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This operation is the third phase in a series of three DPLs. Consistent with the Country 
Partnership Strategy (CPS), the Bank has been supporting the Government’s reform agenda in 
Page  4
the social sectors aimed at promoting medium-term living standards convergence with EU 
averages and in line with the requirements of the EU Lisbon Jobs and Growth Strategy. Bank 
involvement in the context of the DPL series has involved substantial policy advice to the 
authorities as well as analytical work to inform the reform process.  
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The responsibility for implementation of the Program lies with the Council for Economic Policy 
(CEP) under the Council of Ministers, chaired by the Minister of Economy.
 
The CEP undertakes 
the overall management and coordination of the Government program and assures representation 
of all the Sectoral Ministries involved in the reform (i.e. Health, Education, and Labor and Social 
Policy) and the involvement of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy in the 
discussion of the reform program.  The program’s coordination is officially managed by the 
Directorate for Coordination of EU Affairs and International Financial Institutions (IFIs) of the 
Council of Ministers. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
In terms of 
benefits
,
it is expected that at the end of the DPL series (i) the employment rate of 
younger and older workers will have increased; (ii) the hospital sector will have a coherent plan 
for streamlining and increasing responsiveness to population needs; hospital spending will be 
under control; and more resources will be allocated to outpatient care, therefore reaching a larger 
percentage of the underserved population; (iii) a basic package of drugs will become more 
affordable and introduction of new pharmaceutical products will be faster; and (iv) school 
financing will be more efficient, and schools will have more incentives to retain students and 
improve quality of education. 
 
Three types of 
risks
 could affect implementation of policies supported by DPL 3: (i) 
Macroeconomic risks: Large external imbalances and a rapidly worsening external environment 
magnify the risks of a sudden stop in capital inflows and a slowdown of growth with potential 
negative effects on the quality of banks’ portfolio and the health of the financial system; (i) 
Political risks: Bulgaria will elect a new parliament in the summer of 2009, and some of the 
reforms supported by the DPL-series may not be sustained through the pre-election period and 
political transition to a new government; and (iii) Technical risks: Capacity in some line 
ministries for programs monitoring and impact evaluation of policies is limited. 
 
Page  5
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The implementation of the DPL3-supported reform agenda takes place in times of heightened 
risks to Bulgaria resulting from the global economic and financial crisis. With strong recent 
economic growth having been pro-poor, there is a risk that a slow-down in economic growth 
may have a dampening effect on further poverty reduction or may even increase poverty. The 
DPL 3 supports specific measures by the Government to address adverse effects from the 
projected economic downturn on employment. Overall, the DPL 3-supported structural reform 
policies do not result in direct negative poverty or other social consequences, while many of the 
policies could actually contribute to improving the situation of vulnerable groups.  No significant 
environmental impacts are associated with DPL 3.   
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Christian Bodewig 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +1-202-4582387 
Fax: +1-202-5223665 
Email: cbodewig@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, DC 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
