Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4448 
Operation Name 
SIR DPL3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (45%); Health (45%); Other social 
services (10%) 
Project ID 
P115400 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 6, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 23, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 14, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Following accession to the European Union, a major challenge for Bulgaria has been a low labor 
force participation and employment rate. 
The employment rate remains low compared to the EU-15 
and most new EU Member States and substantially below the EU Lisbon target rate of 70 percent by 
2010. Accelerated private sector growth in recent years has contributed to increases in employment and 
falls in unemployment; however, a significant share of the population aged 15-64 remains economically 
inactive 
–
in particular youth and older workers and those with low levels of education and skills.  At the 
same time, the workforce is aging and the demographic decline sets limitations for its renewal.  While 
unemployment has fallen to record low levels in 2008, the expected economic downturn in the wake of 
the global financial crisis risks triggering a reversal in the labor market and complicating further 
employment activation of disadvantaged workers. 
 
Supported by the DPL series, Bulgaria has participated in international student assessments 
which show that education outcomes are low compared to benchmark countries in the European 
Union. 
Prior to the DPL series, the information on quality of education in Bulgaria was sparse, and 
recent external assessments have shown that student achievements are poor, and raising them requires 
sustained reforms and further investments in diagnostic instruments to assess learning outcomes. 
Moreover, too many students still drop out without completing secondary education: over one-fifth of 
youth leave school with only lower secondary compared to 7.5% in the other new EU Member States. 
 
While Bulgaria is experiencing a demographic transition, with the school-age population 
shrinking substantially, a generous education infrastructure had remained from before the 
transition. 
Student numbers declined by more than 25 percent in the period between 1992 and 2005. 
While municipalities had been closing down schools during this period in response to the decline, there 
was no systematic plan to adapt to this demographic transition, leading to declining student-teacher 
ratios and growing per student costs.  Prior to the initiation in 2006 of the reforms supported by the DPL 
series, there were a large number of schools that operated with very low student-teacher ratios, e.g. 
about 31 percent of municipal schools operated with ratios below 11 in 2005—both in rural and urban 
areas. In addition, (i) the stock of non-teaching personnel reflected recruitment practices that did not 
necessarily follow cost-effectiveness considerations; and (ii) the financing mechanism in place until the 
end of 2006 —whereas local authorities’ freedom to adjust human and capital resources is limited and 
resource allocation to schools is determined exclusively at the central level— failed to create incentives 
Page  2
for an efficient management of resources. DPL 1 and DPL 2 have supported the introduction of per 
student financing 
–
which has triggered a substantial consolidation of the school network which is 
ongoing – and delegated budgets which have led to a greater efficiency of spending and are expected to 
lay the ground for improvements in education outcomes. 
 
Health service provision has been inefficient and the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) has 
faced financial sustainability concerns. 
More than ten years after the passing of the health insurance 
law, health outcomes are showing a reversion in the negative trend observed during the 1990s, but at the 
outset of the DPL series in 2006 it was also apparent that many aspects of the original plan required 
additional fine-tuning and that some of the main reforms are yet to be completed. In recent years the 
NHIF has faced several key threats to its financial sustainability, including: (i) an ineffective allocation 
of resources to hospitals and payment to physicians, using a mechanism that set no limit in the volume 
of services and therefore resulted in significant growth in hospital spending; (ii) a large hospital 
infrastructure that continues to grow (both public and private), is not based on needs assessment, and 
puts pressure on NHIF spending since it is mandated to sign contracts with all hospitals; and (iii) rapid 
expenditure growth on pharmaceuticals, which are also responsible for a large share of out-of-pocket 
spending by the poor.  Supported by the DPL series, important progress has been made since 2006 with 
respect to containing the growth of hospital spending and rationalizing the pharmaceuticals pricing 
system, yet further steps are necessary to improve the NHIF’s fiscal sustainability. 
 
The completion of the third phase of the SIR DPL program takes place in times of heightened 
economic risks resulting from a worsening global economic environment in the wake of the global 
financial crisis.
 
Bulgaria’s economic growth is forecast to decline in 2009 and 2010 compared to 2008, 
and the Government is focusing on a dual strategy of (i) maintaining a prudent fiscal stance to ensure the 
continued cushion of a sizable fiscal surplus and (ii) continued structural reforms in the framework of 
the EU Lisbon Jobs and Growth Strategy to increase competitiveness and raise productivity so as to 
emerge stronger from the economic downturn.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
This operation is the third phase in a series of three DPLs and marks the continuation of a reform 
process in education, health and social protection and employment supported by DPL 1 and DPL 
2. 
The series has been designed to support the Government of Bulgaria (GoB) to meet some of the 
challenges associated with EU accession —in the case of DPL 1— and post-accession —DPL 2 and 3. 
The DPL series support the adoption and implementation of policies to (i) increase employment and lay 
the foundations for long-term productivity growth by providing incentives for job creation and 
improving quality of education and; (ii) promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency gains in the 
social sectors. At the same time, the DPL 3 takes account of Bulgaria’s prospect of a period of economic 
downturn and considerable uncertainty triggered by the turmoil in the global financial markets, raising 
the need for adequate measures to cushion the negative employment and social impacts and to ensure a 
prudent fiscal stance.  The actions supported by the DPL series are expected to contribute to laying the 
ground for an increased speed of convergence with EU policies and standards in the medium term, 
enhanced competitiveness through increased skills of the labor force and better investment climate, and 
more efficient health, education, and social assistance systems.
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The objectives of the reform strategy supported by the DPL program are to be achieved through the 
implementation of policies and actions oriented towards 
Page  3
·
Creating opportunities and incentives for individuals to join the labor market and to move to 
higher productivity jobs, improving the institutional and regulatory framework 
—so that it is 
easier for companies to start new businesses and to hire workers, and for labor to be mobile – 
and measures to address adverse employment effects triggered by the expected economic 
downturn in the wake of the financial crisis; 
·
Changing the finance and governance system for primary and secondary education to promote 
improved quality of education and enhance the efficiency of resource use, and improving the 
capacity of education authorities to assess quality of education and use information critically to 
improve the education system; 
·
Revising the financing mechanism in the health sector to make the system financially sustainable 
and lay the ground for improving its quality; preparing a plan for restructuring the health 
facilities network; using insurance administrative systems to improve the efficiency of health 
expenditures; and making purchasing and reimbursement policies for pharmaceuticals more 
rational; and  
·
Promoting monitoring and evaluation of policies. 
 
The DPL program emphasizes the need for evidence-based policy making, and has succeeded in 
developing a cross-cutting agenda in this area with the Government.
 
It has been supporting the 
Government’s efforts to invest in information gathering and developing monitoring and evaluation 
capabilities.  To this end the program is: (i) supporting the assessment of effectiveness of changes in one 
of the main social assistance programs; (ii) promoting the collection and the critical use of information 
on education quality through student assessments, including the national school-leaving examination 
(Matura); and (iii) building the capacity to evaluate the impact of policy changes and implement 
household surveys through accompanying technical assistance on impact evaluation linked to the DPL.  
Some of the policies supported by the DPL program are going to show results only in the medium term, 
i.e. not until after the three-year DPL program.  These include an increase in quality of education and 
access to underserved populations, a decrease in long term unemployment, and an improvement in 
health outcomes through a more responsive supply of services and improved access to drugs. While it 
will not be possible to capture and report on these changes at the time of DPL 3, the focus on evidence-
based policy-making and establishment of an evidence base for the supported reforms are an essential 
contribution to monitoring medium-long-term effects of the reform program (including specific DPL 
actions and complementary policies).
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Not applicable 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Christian Bodewig 
Page  4
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: +1-202-4582387 
Fax: +1-202-5223665 
Email: cbodewig@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, DC
 
