Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22117-YEM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23730)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.1 MILLION *
(US$ 32.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT
June 20, 2001
* after cancellation of SDR 3.7 million the total amount of the Credit was reduced to SDR 20.4 million
Rural Development, Water and Enviromment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)
Currency Unit =  Yemeni Rial (YR)
1000 YR  =  US$ 6.25
US$ 1  =  160
Official Rate         Market Rate
May 1992       US$ 1 =YR  12         US$ 1 =YR  29
October 1994  US$ 1 = YR  50         US$ 1 = YR 103
October 1995  US$ 1 =YR  90          US$ 1 = YR 112
December 1996 US$ 1 = YR 100         US$ 1 = YR 126
December 1997 US$ I = YR 131         US$ 1 = YR 131
June 1998      US$ 1 = YR 135        US$ 1 = YR 135
December 1999 US$ 1 = YR 155         US$ 1 = YR 155
December 2000 US$ I = YR 160         US$ 1 = YR 160
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CACB           Cooperative Agriculture and Credit Bank
CWMU           Central Water Monitoring Unit
GDI            General Directorate of Irrigation
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GDFDC          General Directorate of Forestry and Desertification Control
GOY           Government of Yemen
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
LWCP           Land and Water Conservation Project
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MAI            Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOPD           Ministry of Planning and Development
NWRA           National Water Resources Authority
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PMU           Project Management Unit
ROY            Republic of Yemen
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SMS           Subject Matter Specialist
TA             Technical Assistance
TDA            Tihama Development Authority
UNCDF          United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNV            United Nations Volunteer
WID           Women in Development
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Mahmood Ayub
Sector Manager    Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Manuel Schiffler



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     7
6. Sustainability                                                                          8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       12
9. Partner Comments                                                                      14
10. Additional Information                                                               16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    32
IBRD Map No.31316
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005836                                      Project Name: LAND & WATER CONSERV
Team Leader: Manuel Schiffler                            TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 25, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: LAND & WATER CONSERV                          L/C/TFNumber: IDA-23730
Country/Department: YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage; AT - Forestry
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/31/1989                             Effective: 05/14/1993
Appraisal:  05/17/1991                               MTR: 07/01/1995           07/07/1997
Approval:  05/28/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ROY/GDI/MAWR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Mahmood Ayub                             Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:      M. Salah Darghouth                       Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Team Leader at ICR:   Manuel Schiffler                        Rahul Raturi
ICR Primary Author:   Manuel Schiffler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoxy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
Yemen is the poorest and most rural country in the MENA region. In 1998, 12.5 million people lived in
rural areas, accounting for 76 percent of the population. From 1992 until 1998, the rural population
increased by 16 percent, while value added in agriculture increased by 36 percent during the same period.



Nevertheless, according to a national household budget survey conducted in 1998, the incidence of rural
poverty remained high at 25 percent.
Yemeni agriculture relies to a large extent on irrigation that has brought self-sufficiency in fruit and
vegetables and an explosion in qat cultivation, while traditional cereals and the livestock economy were
marginalized, with consequent deterioration in watersheds and terraces. Recent sector work has shown that
there is a substantial "yield gap" that Yemeni farmers could close and that there is good potential for
increasing returns to water in agriculture. Market prospects are better than for other sectors, with a
domestic market expanding fast in size and quality of demand, and with new prospects for regional exports.
However, natural resources are already fully utilized and in the case of groundwater, over-utilized in many
regions, with consequent effects on the prospects for sustainable growth.
The Government of Yemen requested the assistance of IDA in the agricultural sector through a series of
projects, including the recently completed Agricultural Sector Management Support Project (ASMSP, Cr.
22990) as well as the Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP). The start-up of the Land and Water
Conservation Project was slow, hampered by a lack of acceptance of the implementation arrangements by
the RDAs, initial conflicts between the PMU and the implementing agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (MAWR), slow progress in filling the positions for the PMU, procurement problems, and
the turmoil associated with the country's reunification, the repercussions of the Gulf War in 1990 and the
1994 Civil War. Only with the restructuring of the project in August 1995, the appointment of a new PMU
director, and the subsequent second restructuring at mid-term in January 1997 implementation began in
earnest. Disbursement picked up quickly. In the subsequent five and a half years, and in particular during
the last three years, the project achieved its major objectives.
Original Objective
To strengthen sustainable agriculture through: (i) institutional and technical developments in irrigation and
forestry; (ii) initiating a program of water resource monitoring and regulation in the agriculture sector; (iii)
improving water use efficiency in irrigated agriculture; (iv) conserving key indigenous forest areas,
accelerating tree planting and extending soil and water conservation; and (v) establishing approaches for
watershed management and terrace stabilization.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision made.
3.3 Original Components:
1. Institutional Strengthening
1.1. Water Resources
1.2. Forestry
2. Irrigation Development
2.1. Spate Irrigation
2.2. Groundwater Irrigation
2.3. Agricultural Development
2.4. Implementation Units
3. Forestry Development
3.1. Land Conservation / Afforestation
3.2. Watershed Management
3.4 Revised Components:
-2 -



No revision made. The restructuring in 1995 and the mid-term review in 1997 reduced the scope of the
components and simplified and clarified the implementation arrangements.
3.5 Quality at Ent,y:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. Ownership of the project by the GOY was considerable: the project was
highly relevant to the Borrower's development priorities, and was consistent with the Borrower's strategy
for developing the irrigated agriculture and forestry sectors. It also reinforced the overall goal - embraced
by the Bank and the Government - to more effectively use the country's scarce water resources.
In retrospect, it may have been advisable not to include both forestry and irrigation components in the same
project, given the lack of coordination in the detailed planning and the implementation between the
departments of MAI (GDFDC and GDI) responsible for the implementation of the components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The overall outcome of the project is rated partially satisfactory and the project's development objective has
been mostly achieved, albeit with some caveats. Physical targets were reached in most cases, and exceeded
in some. The project has achieved a high economic rate of return. It has had a beneficial environmental
impact through water savings, afforestation, and soil conservation. Farmers have participated in many
project activities by providing labor or through cash payments, creating the basis for the sustainability of
these activities at the farm level. The capacity of most institutions involved has been strengthened.
However, given the size of the technical assistance and training, the institutional development impact
remained modest. PlUs supported under the project will be able to provide many services after the closure
of the project until the funds generated through cost sharing arrangements under the project will be
depleted. After their depletion, and assuming no other donor-funded projects, the sustainability of the PIUs'
services is not guaranteed. The project thus has introduced sustainable improvements for farmers. But since
costs have intentionally only been partially recovered in order to spread new technologies, the services
needed to expand improved irrigation techniques to new areas cannot be provided on a sustainable basis
without further external support.
Also, government's contribution to the project, both for investment and for recurrent expenditures, was
much lower than anticipated.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Under the groundwater irrigation component, the targets in terms of area under improved conveyance
efficiency (10,600 ha compared to 8,500 ha) were exceeded. The reduction in water use due to irnproved
conveyance is estimated to be more than 20 percent. The nunber of pilot pressurized units remained below
the target (66 compared to 165); the main reason was that farmers were skeptical about these systems prior
to observation of the pilots. The experience with bubblers and sprinklers was encouraging, while the more
sensitive drip systems have experienced some design and operational problems. However, despite these
difficulties, farmers' demand was highest for bubbler and drip and lower for sprinkler. In terms of cost
sharing, every farmer had to deposit a cash contribution on the project's Bank account before receiving
technical advice and equipment under the project. This generated USS2 million in beneficiary contributions
to cost sharing arrangements. These funds will be used to extend the area under improved irrigation after
the project ends. This cost sharing by farmers is a clear departure from earlier practice of free provision of
equipment and may be considered a watershed event in this sector. The definition of upper limits on a
farmer's area benefiting from the project helped to prevent windfall profits for larger farmers. Furthermore,
the project used a higher quality of pipes than those sold by the private sector. Efficient procurement and
large packages ensured very competitive rates, resulting from economies of scale, that were passed on to
-3 -



the beneficiaries. Project staff also designed and supervised the implementation of the works. Farmers who
had bought and installed low-quality pipes outside the project often had disappointing results. This had in
turn discouraged other farmers from improving their irrigation techniques. The project succeeded in
reversing this trend. The trust in piped and pressurized irrigation generated by the project is a crucial
prerequisite for the replication of the irrigation component's success to larger areas. Bearing in mind that
the project has covered less than 3 percent of the area irrigated by groundwater in Yemen, this could reveal
itself to be one of the project's most substantial benefits.
Under the spate schemes physical targets for construction have not been fully achieved (see Annex 1) and
the irrigated area has been less than anticipated (1,175 ha compared to 2,400 ha). The reason was that the
number of structures had to be reduced after successive flooding led to an increase in width of wadis
resulting in higher costs. Farmers have contributed their labor towards the building of smaller structures,
which benefited communities in their immediate vicinity. In the case of larger structures, farners
contributed by building canal outlets to their fields. Overall, farmer contribution was lower than
anticipated. Economic rates of return are estimated to be much lower than for the groundwater component.
Due to shortage of funds under LWCP, one spate diversion work and one spate breaker/recharge weir that
were designed under LWCP were funded under the Emergency Flood Recovery Project (IDA Credit No.
2932).
The project's impact on water resources has been beneficial overall, although with variations by region
and component. Given the increasing scarcity of water, this impact has to be given particular attention in
future projects. It was not possible to establish a clear link between water savings under the project and a
slowdown in the decline of the groundwater table in a specific area. The main reason is that individual
beneficiary farmers were deliberately chosen from widely scattered locations in order to maximize the
demonstration effect of new technologies on other farmers. In some cases water saved through increased
irrigation efficiency has been used to extend the irrigated area; but this seems to have happened mainly in
low-hazard, shallow alluvial aquifers, primarily in the foothills of the coastal plains. In most cases the
investments in groundwater irrigation efficiency have significantly reduced pumping, especially in
high-hazard aquifers. One reason for this behavior is that farmers often already had to deepen their wells
several times at a substantial cost, while it is uncertain whether their wells will yield the same amount of
water after the next deepening. Other concerns are higher pumping costs and an increase in salinity. In
some cases farmers were unable to increase their irrigated area because they did not have access to
additional land, either because of physical constraints or because they were unable to buy or lease lands
from their neighbors. In one case observed by the mission in the Taiz area a farmer sold water he saved to
water tankers supplying the city. The impact of spate structures has also been beneficial overall, especially
for downstream structures capturing flood flows that would otherwise have been lost to the sea. The project
also improved the capacity for water resources monitoring through the drilling of 15 monitoring wells, the
supply of hydro-meteorological equipment, and related TA and training (see under institutional
development impact below). The record on groundwater monitoring is rather disappointing, since the
number of wells monitored has actually declined during the project for lack of funding for recurrent costs.
Concerning the forestry and land conservation component (closed in 1999), nurseries that were
rehabilitated or created under the project have produced almost one million seedlings, reaching its physical
target. Trees were planted either on private land to protect fields from wind or water erosion and to benefit
crops such as coffee (agro-forestry), or on public land such as along roads and in schools. The survival rate
of seedlings was high, with a total of about 700,000 surviving trees. Public nurseries, however, faced
operational problems after closure of the component. Most of the seedlings are given away for free and
even transported to the farmers' fields. A smaller portion has recently been sold below cost. These limited
revenues and current budget allocations are not sufficient to cover operating costs. In addition, attempts at
- 4 -



cost recovery have slowed down demand for seedlings. As a result, most public nurseries operate at below
half their capacity. The much smaller community nurseries are apparently suffering less operational
problems. Public nurseries may benefit from more budgetary autonomy, allowing them to keep locally
generated revenues to cover their recurrent costs. The current trend towards decentralization could provide
a good basis for such reforms. Under the pilot activity on woodland management the concept of protection
contracts signed by the local com-munity combined with the supply of an alternative fuel source (gas) has
proven to be successful. The concept is now being used under similar projects in other parts of Yemen.
Sand dune stabilization by mechanical works and the planting of shrubs in coastal areas has slowed down
desertification. However, because the benefits from reduced sand deposit on fields are spread over large
agricultural areas, it was not possible to convince farmers to participate in these works. In watershed
management (small check dams, bank protection) and terrace rehabilitation, farmers participated by
contributing labor. These works were undertaken in poor communities with a high commitment to provide
inputs, identified through a socio-economic survey. Under a small women in development activity rural
women were trained in natural resources management, leading to the establishment of home gardens and a
small nursery run by women.
A substantial number of cars and heavy equipment was procured under the project. It appears that most or
all of these are operating, mainly at the field level, and continue to be used for the intended purposes.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Net Present Value of the project at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent is USS 2.0 million and
the economic rate of return is estimated at 15 percent, excluding the costs and benefits of forestry as well as
TA and training that is not related directly to irrigation and watershed management. The investment costs
included in the analysis (US$20.4 million) account for 68 percent of total investment costs (USS30.1
million). If all project costs are included, as it was done for the SAR, the NPV falls to US$-2.0 million and
the ERR to 10 percent. The investment cost, ERRs and NPVs for selected components are as follows: (i)
piped groundwater conveyance: ERR 30 percent, NPV US$ 8.2 m; (ii) spate irrigation: ERR 8 percent,
NPV US$-0.15 m; and (iii) watershed management: ERR 10 percent, NPV USS-0.01 m.
In the SAR, the NPV at an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent was estimated at US$11.1 million and
the economic rate of return was estimated at 19 percent, including all costs and benefits. The overall
benefits estimated in the SAR are higher than the benefits that actually materialized for the following
reasons: (i) there were substantial delays between the time the costs were incurred for TA, vehicles and
equipment and the time the first benefits materialized; (ii) the SAR assumed that higher irrigation efficiency
would lead to an increase in the irrigated area, while the ICR assumes - based on empirical evidence - that
higher irrigation efficiency has mostly led to reduced pumping. Because the savings in pumping costs are
lower than the incremental value added from increasing the irrigated area, this assumption had a slight
negative effect on the ERR; (iii) the SAR calculations were based on a larger project, while the ICR
calculations are based on the reduced scope of the project after it was restructured, thus leading to a lower
NPV. The SAR did not provide separate estimates for the NPV and ERR of project components.
4.4 Financial rate of retuirn:
The estimated financial rates of return vary between 16 percent and 32 percent. The highest rates of return
are achieved in Highland areas where the water table is deep and pumping costs are high (up to 9 US
Cents/cubic meter), thus leading to higher savings in pumping costs. The financial rates of return in the
coastal plains (Tihama, Lahej and Dhamar) are lower (16-17 percent), despite the assumption that the
irrigated area has been expanded in these areas. The payback for the investments ranges from 1. Ito 3.5
years, with an average of about 2 years. In the case of the Highlands, this payback is based on the reduced
pumping costs alone, not taking into account additional benefits from an increased lifetime of the aquifer, a
- 5 -



lower pumping lift, and the avoided or delayed costs of deepening wells in those areas where the water table
is declining, or any benefits from the prevention of seawater intrusion in coastal aquifers. For most crops
and project areas, the return on labor has been decreasing, reflecting a stronger increase in labor input than
in total returns.
The SAR estimated rates of return estimated for various areas between 27 percent and 89 percent, an
increase in the income per family labor day of 15 percent and a payback period for the investment of 1.4 to
3.6 years. The reason for the higher IRR and labor return estimates in the SAR is that the SAR values were
based on the assumption that the water savings per hectare would be used to increase the irrigated area.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Strengthening: The TA and training component has been large, its share amounting to 33
percent of project costs. Both TA and training were crucial to achieve the project's objective. Without TA
most components of the project may never have been implemented. The main beneficiaries of TA were the
PMU, CWMU, GDFDC and PIUs. Not all the TA and training has been of the highest quality. But in most
cases, TA and training were of high quality, as reflected in studies and reports as well as in the assessment
by counterpart staff and trained staff. But in the case of long-term TA, in some cases no concomitant
capacity was created in the counterpart institution, while in the case of short-term TA the counterpart
institutions were sometimes unable to follow up on the recommendations made. The generally low salary
level in the public sector is a serious constraint on performance, so that the institutional development
impact remains modest.
Under the water resources component, TA and training was mainly extended to staff of the Central Water
Monitoring Unit (CWMUJ) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, the PMU and PIUs. Some more
limited support was provided to the National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) and to the General
Directorate of Irrigation (GDI) in MAI. Assistance for the CWMU included local well inventories, the
categorization of 19 aquifers out of those covered under the project, the identification of the requirements
for a national hydro-meteorological network, pilot studies on the use of non-conventional waters for
irrigation, and capacity building for the design and installation of irrigation equipment as well as for the
monitoring of water savings in irrigation. Long-term training also contributed to strengthen to a certain
extent the capacity of CWMU and other entities, including the PMU of the Sanaa Basin project. Support to
NWRA included mainly a public awareness campaign and support for the National Water Strategy that
was approved by Cabinet. The support for irrigation agronomy, including the strengthening of field units,
seems to have been the most successful activity. The impact of some activities has remained limited, partly
due to institutional problems (see above). Capacity for water monitoring at the field level in the project area
is substantial in MAI through the CWMU and PIUs. However, the entity that has been legally entrusted
with water monitoring and water resources management -- NWRA --has field units only in Taiz and Aden.
The record on cooperation and data exchange is mixed. Cooperation seems to be more developed at the
field level than at the central level. The sustainability of some of the activities supported is doubtful. Given
the limited field capacity of NWRA, it is not clear who will operate the observation wells and the
hydro-meteorological network once they are in place. Finally, it should be noted that, together with other
projects, the project contributed to the preparation of the Water and Irrigation Law that is currently before
Parliament. Overall, the record of institutional strengthening under the water resources component has been
mixed.
Under the forestry component capacities TA and training were provided to the GDFDC and its local
branches. GDFDC had been created only shortly before the project. It had low capacity and was highly
centralized. Intemational experts worked together with forestry staff in teams and succeeded in transferring
knowledge. This was enhanced by long-term training received mainly in other countries in the region with
- 6 -



substantial experience with forestry management under similar climatic conditions. After the training
practically all staff returned to GDFDC, including many posted in the field, and were able to put the
acquired knowledge to work. Moreover, a process of decentralization was begun under the project.
Capacity of GDFDC has been somewhat strengthened, but some issues concerning the management of
GDFDC remain unresolved. The results of the institutional strengthening of the forestry component are
thus mixed.
Short-term training in Yemen under both components - water resources and forestry -- has proved to be
mostly unsuccessful. The quality of the services was often very low. Furthermore, even when the quality
was acceptable, the duration of the training often was too short to have an impact.
The TA was also crucial in supporting the PMU and the PIUs, and contributed significantly to the
turnaround of the project after its slow startup. However, the weak services in the early phase of the project
may have prevented the project from being turned around at an earlier time.
The capacity created in irrigation agronomy and forestry, including particularly at the field level,
constitutes a good basis for follow-up activities in these sub-sectors with TA and training limited to specific
needs to fill remaining gaps, such as drip irrigation design and management. Concerning water resources
management, much more effort will be needed to resolve institutional problems and, in some cases, to
strengthen capacity at the field level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
When the project was approved by the Board in 1992, the country was suffering from the aftermath of the
1990/91 Gulf War and its repercussions on the Yemeni economy due to the return of Yemeni migrant labor
from Saudi-Arabia, severe macro-economic imbalances and an extensive transition period following the
reunification of Yemen in 1990, often paralyzing any effective government action. The project was further
affected by the Civil War in 1994. After the end of the war, periodic social unrest continued to hamper
project implementation in parts of the project area.
Heavy floods in parts of the project area widened some wadis to up to more than ten times there original
width. Thus the designs for spate structures along these wadis had to be modified, leading to a substantial
cost increase and a concomitant reduction in the incremental irrigated area served within the given budget
for this component.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart Funding: During the entire project implementation period, GOY did not provide adequate
counterpart funding, despite the continued attempts of IDA supervision missions to resolve the issue. This
shortfall was partially overcome by financing some limited recurrent costs through the FAO's Trust Fund
Contracts.
Inflation, Overvaluation and Slow Procurement of Larger Contracts: During the period 1993-96, there
was a significant difference between the official and market exchange rates of Yemeni Rial and high
inflation. This made procurement difficult, because contractors were unable to uphold their bids during the
long period between bid submission and contract award in the absence of price escalation clauses. Inflation
also increased the value of some large contracts denominated in local currency in such a way that they
passed the threshold for review by the High Tender Board, thus slowing down procurement and project
implementation. Inflation also reduced the willingness of CACB to extend credits to farmers to meet their
- 7 -



cost sharing part in the purchase of irrigation equipment.
Water Law: The passing of the water law, which has been discussed in several drafts since the early
1990s, has been substantially delayed, thus encumbering the implementation of an effective water resources
management strategy.
Slow Effectiveness: Following Board approval in May 1992, the Credit became effective only in May
1993. The delay was mainly due to the need to receive approval for the project from Parliament.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Slow Procurement of Smaller Contracts: For smaller procurement items which were within the
thresholds of the PMU, MAI initially interfered, thus causing delays.
Slow Start-Up: Reflecting the slow start-up of the project, about US$5.5 million from the IDA credit
were canceled in 1994 as part of a Country Portfolio Performance Review. As a result, the project had to
be restructured in August 1995 reducing its targets.
Implementation Arrangements: Initially, budgets were supposed to be allocated to the 7 PIUs through the
PMU. This arrangement proved to be unworkable due to the resistance by RDAs and PIUs were
consequently inactive. In 1996, MAM started allocating the budget directly to the PIUs and the relationship
between the PMU, PlUs and the RDAs/regional agricultural offices under which the PIUs were to work
was defined in a manner acceptable to all stakeholders. The PIU staff was entirely deployed only at the end
of 1995. The cost recovery arrangements with CACB, an important pre-requisite for the sale of irrigation
equipment, were also finalized only in late 1995.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The project costs were US$30.1 million, or 63 percent of the US$47.6 estimated at appraisal. The
reduction of US$17.5 million is attributed to the reduction of the physical targets during the 1995
restructuring and the 1997 Mid-Term Review as well as to efficient procurement in large packages leading
to cost reductions. The reduction in physical targets was mirrored by the cancellation of a portion of the
IDA credit, the unavailability of UNCDF cofinancing and lower counterpart funding. Under the spate
irrigation sub-component, increased costs due to floods were offset by a reduction in the scope of works.
Also, a number of spate structures designed under the project were funded by other on-going IDA projects.
Under the groundwater irrigation sub-component, prices received on some bids for pipes were lower than
anticipated. Furthermore, the number of pilot projects for pressurized piped irrigation was reduced after
initial uptake by farmers remained limited. The cost reduction due to these two factors allowed the project
to increase the area covered by piped irrigation conveyance beyond the targets of the mid-term review.
Ninety-nine percent of the reduced IDA credit were committed or disbursed at project completion.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is defined by the ICR guidelines as the "probability of (a project) maintaining the
achievements generated or expected to be generated in relation to its objective over the economic life of the
project."
The sustainability of the project is likely. The on-farm investment in irrigation is undertaken on farmers'
land based on a cost sharing arrangement, which includes a substantial contribution by farmers. These
- 8 -



investments have achieved a high financial and economic rate of return. A high degree of beneficiary
ownership and the existing financial incentives are expected to ensure that farmers will properly maintain
the irrigation equipment and replace it after the end of its economic life. As far as spate structures are
concerned, smaller structures that can be maintained by farmers are likely to be sustainable, while larger
structures that traditionally fall within the responsibility of the government are less likely to be properly
maintained. Investments in watershed management have been undertaken with substantial voluntary
community participation, suggesting that famners will continue to maintain the structures (bank protection
works, terraces) built with their participation under the project. Afforestation has taken place to a large
extent on the land of farmers, protecting their land against wind and water erosion as well as protecting
their crops (agro-forestry), thus giving them a stake in protecting these trees. The survival rate of trees has
been correspondingly high at 75-80 percent, including trees planted on public land.
The establishment of a revolving fund of about US$2 million through cost-sharing contributions by farmers
who have bought irrigation equipment will ensure that investments in improved irrigation conveyance will
even be extended to new areas after project closure without any external funding. However, given that
farmers are not expected to pay the full cost of the equipment, this fund will ultimately be depleted. It was,
however, never intended to fully recover the investments, since the groundwater component of the project
aimed at demonstrating unfamiliar technologies to farmers. In fact, the extent of the partial cost recovery is
a considerable achievement in the context of Yemen. Together with the fact that beneficiaries will cover
total costs of O&M the successful cost sharing agreement is unprecedented in IDA-funded projects in the
agricultural sector in Yemen.
On another positive note, the technical capabilities of the PIUs, of the Forestry Department and of the
CWMU have been strengthened considerably, enabling PIUs to convince farmers to adopt water saving and
land conservation technologies and provide technical support in their implementation. Furthermore, the
project has achieved its objective of familiarizing the beneficiaries with land and water conservation
technologies concerning especially groundwater conveyance systems and pressurized irrigation systems.
The beneficiaries are not only willing to actively participate in the activities supported under the project,
but these activities are likely to be replicated in the future, if cost sharing agreements as devised under the
project can be maintained. The level of awareness created among the farmers in regard to the importance of
their own contribution and participating in implementing similar works in the future has increased.
Without continued support, farmers are likely to operate and maintain most of the infrastructure installed
under the project. But public institutions are not likely to be able to promote such investments on new areas
without being supported. PIUs and nurseries lack adequate recurrent budget allocations or revenues
necessary to continue their operations at the same level as during the project. PIUs charge a levy of about 5
percent of equipment supplied to cover the cost of the surveys/designs for irrigation networks, thus
allowing them to recover a portion of their recurrent costs from beneficiaries. Under the forestry
component, some nurseries have begun charging small fees for fruit and ornamental trees, but seedlings for
other tree species will continue to be provided for free on environmental grounds, thus limiting the scope
for cost recovery. In the absence of a follow-on project, it is expected that public institutions will have to
slow down their efforts to further promote the activities supported under the project.
Another issue of concern is the usable life of aquifers on which groundwater irrigation supported under the
project depends. The project has achieved substantial water savings estimated at 15 million cubic meters
per annum - mainly in high-hazard aquifers, defined as aquifers having experienced a long-term decline in
water tables of more than 3 meters per year - and has thus contributed to reduce overpumping. In some
cases - mainly in low-hazard aquifers, defined as aquifers with stable water tables or an estimated
long-term decline of less than 1 meter per year - farmers seem to have used the water savings per hectare to
-9-



increase their irrigated area. Low-hazard aquifers, which are estimated to account for up to half the area
covered under the groundwater component. In high-hazard aquifers, the long-term sustainability of the
agricultural activities improved under the project is not guaranteed, unless further reductions in abstraction
are achieved. However, the project has brought water abstraction closer to the safe yield in these
high-hazard areas, which is a substantial achievement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regurlar operations:
There is no need for transition agreements at the farm level, as all operations and maintenance are
undertaken by farmers themselves.
The staff of PIUs, who are part of the RDAs or of the regional agricultural offices, will remain in place
after project closure. The proceeds from cost sharing arrangements deposited in a revolving fund will allow
the PIUs to continually fund investments in the higher efficiency of groundwater irrigation for an estimated
period of 18 months. However, the PMU and the PIUs will only be able to extend activities to new areas
beyond the lifetime of the revolving fund if financing from a follow-on project becomes available.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory. The activities to be implemented under the
projects were carefully selected. But implementation difficulties that could have been foreseen at the time of
project preparation were not sufficiently taken into account in the projection of disbursement. These
difficulties include cumbersome procurement arrangements coupled with interference by various
government entities in the procurement process, a high level of inflation, weak capacity within the
implementing agency, and resistance from the part of RDAs and regional agricultural offices to accept
administrative control of the PMU over the PIUs. It should, however, be noted that the causes for these
difficulties were largely beyond the influence of Bank preparation missions.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was satisfactory during the initial phase, and highly satisfactory during the final
phase of the project.
The project became effective during the period soon after unification in 1990 during which many of the
institutions in the country had to go through an extended transition period and during which the
consequences of the Gulf War (1990/1991) were still very much felt on the economy in Yemen. This was
followed by the disruptions of the Civil War in 1994 which delayed activities and brought most
development projects to a stand still until the negative consequences of the hostilities could be overcome by
Government. Implementation remained slow due to cumbersome government procurement procedures, high
inflation affecting procurement, weak staff at the head of the PMU, and the absence of TA staff in the early
years of the project, again due to difficulties in procurement. In addition, RDAs and some regional
agricultural offices initially did not accept the implementation arrangements, which - in their view - gave
too much authority to the PMU over the PIUs located within the regional authorities/offices. Supervision
missions have been acutely aware of these issues, but they were either completely or largely outside IDA's
control.
In August 1995 only USS3 million (9 percent of the credit) had been disbursed, prompting a restructuring
of the project. The restructuring did not change the project's objectives or components. It rather consisted of
(i) a reduction in the physical targets due to the canceling of US$5.5 million of the IDA credit as a result of
a Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR), a lack of adequate counterpart funding and the
- 1 0 -



unavailability of UNCDF cofinancing; and (ii) a repeated attempt at building consensus on implementation
arrangements and somewhat streamlining them. After the restructuring the Bank began to increase its
supervision efforts, especially with the support of staff from the country office. Subsequently - and partly
due to a general improvement of the prevailing conditions in Yemen, the recruitment of TA and the
strengthening of PMU staff - procurement and disbursement picked up, so that US$14.8 m (54 percent of
the credit) were disbursed at the time of the Mid-Term Review in July 1997. The Mid-Term Review further
reduced the physical targets to bring them in line with limited counterpart funding. The Mid-Term Review
finally set realistic targets and confirmed working implementation arrangement, thus finally putting the
project on a level plane all the way to a successful completion during the following three years, up to
closure of the IDA Credit on December 31, 2000.
With hindsight, the cancellation of US$5.5 million was premature, since the project subsequently completed
surveys, designs and studies for spate irrigation structures estimated to cost about US$5 million, which had
to be transferred to other IDA-funded projects in the sector due to shortage of funding.
Overall, supervision missions have been effective in providing constructive suggestions to overcome
problems confronting the implementation of the project. The credit agreement was modified twice to
re-allocate funds among different categories and it was extended twice for a total period of 18 months to
allow for the completion of the physical targets and to make up for the delays experienced initially. Bank
staff showed the degree of flexibility necessary to accommodate these changes.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance was satisfactory throughout the project cycle.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory, despite the political changes and tensions
occurring throughout identification and preparation of the project in 1989-1992.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was marginally satisfactory during the initial phase of the
project, when the country experienced macro-economic instability and substantial political tensions that
ultimately erupted in a Civil War in 1994. Even after the situation calmed down, the lack of counterpart
funding and slow procurement procedures affected project implementation negatively.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PMU within MAI initially lacked sufficient capacity in procurement and implementation of
IDA-funded projects to allow for a smooth implementation of the project. This situation was remedied
subsequently through the direct engagement of expatriate staff to assist the PMU. From then on the
performance of the PMU has been satisfactory. The expatriate directly engaged TA staff were important
in helping the PMU to carry out its activities, especially on expediting procurement, designs of spate
irrigation structures, reporting, monitoring and evaluation.
The performance of the seven PIUs was also satisfactory since the project implementation at the local level
began. PIUs were substantially strengthened through the provision of training, vehicles, office buildings,
storage facilities and equipment.
The CWMU and the regional offices of the GDFDC performed satisfactorily, although coordination
between GDFDC and the PMU remained unsatisfactory at the central level.
- 11 -



Coordination with NWRA remained limited due to the fact that the project was originally intended to
provide support for the Water Sector within the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (later named
the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, MAI), while NWRA was placed under the direct authority of the
Prime Minister upon its creation in 1995. The small assistance which was extended to NWRA did
nevertheless provide satisfactory results such as the public awareness campaign. At the local level,
cooperation between NWRA branches - where they exist - and the PIUs worked reasonably well,
concerning mainly the exchange of groundwater monitoring data obtained by the latter. At the central level,
it was difficult to reach satisfactory agreements concerning cooperation between NWVRA and the CWMJU,
the details of which have not yet been resolved, thus delaying agreement on issues of coordination of
monitoring of meteorological, hydrological and hydro-geological data collection and evaluation.
All legal covenants were complied with, except for those within the responsibility of NWRA, which were
only partially complied. These are expected to be resolved through the Water Law which is expected to be
re-submitted to Parliament, after reconciliation with the Draft Irrigation Law.
7. 7 Overall Borrower pertbrmance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory in terms of project preparation and early
implementation, becoming satisfactory during the later part of project implementation. The performance of
most PIUs during the later phase of the project was highly satisfactory. The only area of deficiency has
been provision of counterpart funding in a timely manner, especially the recurrent budget required for the
operation of the PMU and its PIUs.
8. Lessons Learned
The Timing of Reforms in Water Resources Management Should Not Be Too Ambitious
The timing of reforms concerning water resources management was too ambitious. All legal covenants
under the project were fulfilled, except those relating to water resources management, in particular the
passing of the Water Law, the licensing of drilling rigs, and the levying of fees on drilling rigs. The
leverage achievable under a single project of limited size to drive the policy agenda in such a crucial sector
as water policy should not be overestimated.
Project Design and Implementation Arrangements Should Be Kept Simple
The project involved a number of departnents and institutions, including RDAs, regional agricultural
offices, CWMU, GDFDC, GDI and NWRA. At the time of project preparation all entities were under the
same Ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources. However, the RDAs operated and
operate under a semi-autonomous board and chairman. NWRA was created in 1995 as an independent
government authority under the Prime Minister.
The PMU, which was attached to MAWR (later transformed into MAI), was to be responsible for project
implementation and management. However, as with PMUs for other projects, it had by itself only very
limited authority over the various departments and institutions involved. It could fulfilled its role only with
strong support from - and consensus within - the Steering Committee. The Steering Committee, however,
met only rarely in the initial phase of the project. In later phases it did not succeed in achieving the level of
coordination that would have been desirable. The PMU thus had to focus on implementation facilitation -
including support to the Project's Steering Committee, requesting budgetary allocations for counterpart
funds from MOF and MOPD, procurement, and making disbursement requests - as well as monitoring and
- 12-



evaluation. Key decisions depended on agreement among stakeholders represented in the Steering
Committee, including the Ministry of Finance for budgetary allocations, the Ministry of Planning and the
above-mentioned departments and institutions.
Despite coordination difficulties at the central level, the decentralized implementation mechanism of the
project, with a strong role being assumed by the various PlIJs and reasonably good coordination at the local
level, has proven to be quite successful. Decentralized implementation should be further promoted during
the follow-on project, with a strong reliance on RDAs, regional agricultural offices and regional branches
of NWRA. However, coordination among departments and institutions at the central level has been limited.
It is probably not realistic in the Yemeni context to assume that a Steering Committee will gain consensus
and exercise a strong authority over a nunber of various entities, especially if these entities are not under
the authority of one Minister. Therefore the number of departments and institutions involved should be
minimized to the extent possible. If several of them are involved, clear and workable implementation
arrangements have to be devised upfront, and active and sustained coordination among the concerned
entities is crucial. Cooperation may be particularly promising at the local level and will be assisted by a
higher degree of autonomy for local branch offices of national agencies such as NWRA and Ministries.
A More Concerted Effort is Needed to Ensure Adequate Funding of Recurrent Costs
The Government was unable to meet its contribution towards the project costs, contributing to delays. To
ensure smooth implementation, frequent and regular visits to PIUs by the experts and national staff are
very important. However, limited daily subsistence allowances and lack of fuel constrained the mobility of
experts and national staff Low salaries also provide limited incentives to national staff to effectively
perform their duties. Under the project, some of these problems were mitigated through the use of the
IDA-funded FAO Trust Fund agreements. Supervision missions repeatedly raised the issue of insufficient
counterpart funding, but to no avail. However, as a matter of principle, recurrent costs should be fully and
adequately funded by GOY. Adequate budgetary allocations to other sectoral Ministries apparently pose
less of a problem than budgetary allocations to the MAI. Therefore, IDA should raise this issue in its
dialogue with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Planning in a concerted manner beyond the level
of individual projects.
Cost Sharing Targets and Upper Limits on Size of Farms Have to Be Realistic
The original project envisaged full cost recovery for irrigation equipment and prescribed a maximum size
of benefiting farms. However, initially there were no takers with these two conditions. To promote this
activity the farm size had to be modified and the farmer's contribution to cost-sharing had to be reduced.
The rules applied during the last years of the project were pragmatic and allowed the project to be
implemented, without abandoning the principles of cost sharing and of spreading the benefits to a large
number of farmers by setting an upper limit to the size of farm benefiting any one farmer under the project.
Basin Planning Should be Piloted
Investments in water and soil conservation could provide higher benefits, if they were spatially planned and
targeted at the basin level. Basin planning in Yemen is still in its infancy and there is little spatial planning
and targeting of investments in water and land conservation. Given the very limited capacity of
implementing institutions, it is not realistic to expect that basin planning can be introduced for a project of
the scale of the completed project. However, basin planning should be introduced on a pilot basis in an area
with favorable conditions, such as limited size of basin, adequate capacity of relevant local public
institutions, and a demonstrated ability of local users to engage in collective action to mitigate local
- 13-



environmental problems. In order to ensure a high level of participation in these pilot areas, farmers may be
allowed to contribute a more limited share towards the cost of investments in exchange for an agreement to
abide by certain resource management rules determined by local communities with the assistance of the
project. The preparation of groundwater management activities in these pilot basins should rely on the
experience gained during the Sana'a Basin project, which follows a similar approach and is currently under
preparation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/limplementing agency:
The Government of Yemen agrees, with the reasons cited in the ICR, for the slow start up of the
implementation of the project activities, especially the reasons which were beyond the Government control.
As for the reasons within the Government control, especially the project organizational set up and the
relationship between the RDAs and the PMU and the PIUs, it is worth to mention that the LWCP had been
the second project in Yemen to be implemented under NADP.
The problems associated with the organizational set up and the relationship between the RDAs and the
PMU and the PIUs are mainly due to the fact that the project had adopted a different implementation
modality compared to the previous RDAs and projects modalities. The Project Steering Conmmittee and the
project management had exerted immense efforts to overcome the sensitive management issues raised by
the RDAs and their reluctance to accept the project's new organizational set up and implementation
modality. The success of this modality had encouraged IDA and MAI to adopt the same organizational set
up and implementation arrangement in the follow-on projects financed by IDA.
The Goveurnent of Yemen also agrees that the project success in implementing the cost-sharing
arrangement in the form of farmer's cash contribution towards the cost of piped conveyance systems and
the pressurized irrigation systems.
The cost-sharing arrangement in the form of labor contribution towards the cost of implementation of the
pilot watershed management activities, as well as small spate improvement works, was also successfully
adopted. The labor contribution represented 20% to 25% of the cost of these works.
The cost-sharing arrangement, in the form of cash contribution or kind participation, which is successfully
adopted and implemented by the project, represented a remarkable departure from the previous traditional
implementation modality which relies on the Government doing every thing to farmers, and acknowledged
farmers as partners in the development process rather than just recipient of the development efforts.
It is worth to mention that the funds generated from farmer's cash contribution towards the cost of piped
conveyance system and pressurized irrigation units are currently used for procurement of PVC/GIs and
pressurized irrigation system to continue the installation of the piped conveyance systems and the
pressurized irrigation systems in farmer's fields. The project has also succeeded in creating high level of
awareness among farmers with respect to the importance of improving the irrigation efficiency and
ultimately conserving irrigation water. This is clearly reflected in the huge demand among enlightened
farmers for these types of water savings technologies. The amount of water savings resulting from the
installation of the piped conveyance systems and the pressurized irrigation systems in the area covered
under this project is quite remarkable (about 23 mcm), and these activities proved to be quite consistent
with the country agricultural strategy and represent a nucleus for the implementation of the National Water
Strategy which had recently been prepared and passed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
- 14 -



The Government strongly believes that the success of the cost-sharing arrangement represents a key
element for the sustainability of these activities and that the Government will capitalize on the positive
lessons learnt from the project experience in this respect.
The Government agrees that the costs of Technical Assistance and Training under this project are too high
compared to the actual project costs, however the exact reasons for the high cost of Technical Assistance
and Training are not explicitly stated in the ICR report. The Government also believes that the costs of
Technical Assistance and Training in future projects should not exceed 8% to 10% of any project total
cost.
It is quite true, as indicated in the ICR, that the short training program implemented by the International
Center for Sciences and System Management (ICSMS), Sana'a had not been successful. We admit that this
was basically due to poor formulation of this program. The main shortcomings of this program are the very
short periods of almost all the courses (3 days to 14 days), in addition to the large number of participants in
each course (12 to 40 participants) for a total of 25,420 participants in the whole program. Against this
number, it is worth to mention that, the total project national professional staff (PMU, PIUs, CWMU and
GDFDC ) are around 100 m. This means that most of the beneficiaries from the training program were
not project staff and subsequently didn't contribute directly towards the implementation of the project
activities.
While the training programs implemented through AMIDEAST consisted of long term Diploma and M.Sc.
(1 to 2 years), the courses periods organized through FAO ranged from short courses (2 weeks) to long
term courses (more than two years).
We believe that the training program organized through FAO has mixed successes as many of the trainees
under this program didn't contribute directly towards the implementation of the project activities.
In a nut shell, even though the training program implemented under this project has positive impact on the
capacity building of the national staff in MAI, RDAs, CWMI, GDFDC, GDI and Offices of Agriculture
in some Govemorates, yet its direct impact on the implementation of the project activities and achievements
may be considered as meager.
The Government strongly believes that the role of the national experts in the implementation and
achievements of the forestry activities had been quite vital and significant. The Government will capitalize
on the LWCP experience related to recruitment and utilization of the expertise and experience of the
qualified national staff in future projects.
However, for future projects, the recruitment of the International Technical Assistance will be limited to
scarce specializations only and for short periods. The International Experts role will be confined, to the
extent possible, to providing technical guidance to the national experts to formulate their technical
programs and work plans. The International Experts should also follow up the pace of implementation and
resolve technical problems, if any, during their periodic short term visits. This will not only reduce the cost
of Technical Assistance but also contribute to capacity building and upgrading the skills of the national
experts in the country.
It is worth to mention that, despite the remarkable achievements of the physical targets in the forestry
component, yet the level of coordination between PMU and GDFDC had been below our expectations. The
level of coordination between PMU and NWRA had been modest but the implementation of activities under
- 15 -



the mandate of NWRA were negatively affected by this modest level of coordination. We hope to overcome
this multiplicity in decision making between different institutions involved in one project in the future
The Government also agrees that its contribution to the local budget is lower than its original commitment
and that had negatively affected the pace of implementation of project activities in many PIUs and
especially groundwater monitoring activities in all PIUs. The Government is determined to resolve this
matter which become evident in many projects.
Part of the provisions under the trust fund contracts with FAO had been used to cover the DSA of the
project's directly engaged expatriates experts and their counterparts, as well as the petrol expenses for the
field visits to the PIUs. The field visits of these experts had been quite vital and turned out to have a
positive impact on monitoring the implementation of the field activities and solving a lot of the technical
problems. However, due to the fact that frequent shortage and unavailability of local budget to cover these
expenses can't be avoided sometimes, it would be quite important to make some provisions under the
Technical Assistance component to cater for the DSA of the Intemational Experts and the needed petrol
expenses for the field visits.
The Government strongly believes that activities imnplemented under this project are overwhelmingly of
environmental nature and accordingly most of the benefits generated are long term environmental benefits,
which were not quantified and hence not included in the calculations of the NPV and the IRR. We also
accept the interpretations and justifications given in the ICR for the low NPV and IRR obtained under this
project compared to NPV and IRR calculated for the project at appraisal.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
Financial Management and audits of the project have been satisfactory. The project had an adequate
financial management system in place. The govermment auditors have submitted adequate audits, although
in some cases with substantial delays.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Monitoring Indicators           Unit     Appraisal      Revised*    Actual (up              Remarks
(as Per SAR 1992)                          Targets      Targets As      to       (*The targets had to be reduced on
(up to         per      31-12-200   account of reduction in project cost
30-6-1999)   Aug 95/Jul       0)      from US$47.6 million to USS30.12
97                                million)
Missions
A: IRRIGATION
A.l: Institutional Progress
No.         10           10            10      7 up to May 1996 and 3 in 1999.
(I) SMS (Irrigation Agronomy) appointed
(2) Training Completed
(i) Foreign (through FAO)                    No.)        20            7            6
(a) MSc                                   No.)                   (assumed)        10
(b) One Year Diploma                       No.         14           160          100
(c) Short term Training/Study Tours
(ii)ln-Country (through AMIDEAST &
ICSMS
(a)MSc                                     No.         10 )         L.S.
(b) One Year Diploma                       No.         -  )      provision of     19
(c) Short term Training to Extension       rn/m        400)        money          273
and other staff
A.2: Technical Assistance Rendered
(1) PMU
(a) Expat.                                S/m         72           53           135     Direct
(b) UNVs                                 S/m)         48           42            -
(c) Local Contracts                      S/m)                      36           58      Direct
(d) Audit                                 S/m          -            -           73      Direct
(e) Secretarial                          S/m                                    63      Direct
(2) PIUs (Irrigation Engineers)
(a) Expat.                               S/m          - )-                      131     Direct
(b) UNVs                                 S/m         - )           120          43      FAO
(c) Local Contracts                      S/m         - )         (4 mos)        31      Direct
(3) Start up activities and review of
Organizational Structure
(a) Expat.                                Sm          12                        12      FAO
-17 -



(4) G.D. of Irrigation
(a) Expat. (Dams Engineer)              S/m       12                         33           Provided in MTR-Direct
(b) LUNV/Local Contracts                S/m      3             -             -
(5) CWMU (WRS/Agr.)
(a) CTA                                 S/m      36            30            29           FAO
(b) Expat.                              S/m      74             107          105          FAO 39, Direct 66
(c) UNVs                                S/m      48            48            -
(d) Local Contracts                     S/m      -             -             44           Direct
(e) Other Short term                    S/m      6                           14           Direct
(6) Pilot Activities relating to use of
Saline Water and re-use of Waste
Water
(a) Expat. (2 nos.)                     S/m       16           10            2            FAO
(7) Studies (Re-organization of WRS,        Nos.      3             3             3
Water Strategy Study, Program for
Regulating and Controlling activities of
Drilling Rigs) Completed
(8) Field Implementation Units Established  Nos.      7             7             7
A.3: Physical Progress
(I) Monitoring Boreholes installed             Nos.        25            25            15      The target of 25 boreholes was
reduced in consultation with NWRA.
No boreholes could be drilled in Taiz
area due to objection raised by the
local farmers.
(2) Monitoring Stations established:
(a) Weather                               Nos.    Not defined   Not defined       68      Senior Hydrology Expert
recommended 13 Meteorological
and 55 Rainfall Monitoring Station.s
(b) Spate                                 Nos.    Not defined   Not defined       41      Senior Hydrology Expert
recommended 33 automatic wadi
flow, 5 manual and 3 cable-way
stations.
(c) Ground Water                          Nos.        220           220        239 (60*)  The 239 nos. exclude the wells
monitored by NWRA in Taiz and
Abyan Govemorates and by TDA in
Tihama. These 239 wells are
selected for quarterly monitoring.
* Salinity also measured at 60 wells
(3) Piped Conveyance System Installed          Ha        14,350        8,500        10,600
(4) Pilot Irrigation Systems                  Nos.        220           165           66      As revised during MTR to 66 nos.
(Pressurized Irrigation Systems)                       (I ha each)
Installed
(5) Spate Improvement works:
(a) Spate Diversion works (SDWs)           Nos.         15            15           7*      *In the SAR 1992, small size SDWs
were envisaged to be constructed.
However, as a result of widening of
wadis due to successive floods, large
(b) Bank Protection Works (BPWs)                                                           size SDWs had to be taken up.
(c) Canal Control Structures (CCSs)        Nos.        165           165          277
Nos.        43            43            26      10 large size structures in Shabwa
had to be in place of the larger
number of small size envisaged in
(d) Spate Breaker Re-charge Weir                                                           the SAR 1992.
(SBRW)                                  Nos.          2            2
(e) Bana Hssan diversion Channel
Nos.         I             II
-18 -



(6) Pilot Studies:
(a) Use of Saline Water for              Nos.         1             1            I      Equipment for 68 sites ( 13
Irrigation                                                                          meteorological and 55 rainfall
gauging sites) procured. These are
proposed to be transferred to
NWRA for monitoring after
installation of equipment.
(b) Re-use of Waste Water                Nos.         I            I           Nil    Equipment for 33 Automatic, 5
manual and 3 cable ways procured
and monitoring of observations is to
start now after installation of
equipment.
A.4: Operating Performance
(I) Sites Monitored
(a) Weather                            Nos.    Not defined  Not defined       68
(b) Spate                              Nos.    Not defrned  Not defined      33
(2) Observations Collected:
(a) Weather                            Nos.    Not defined  Not defined      Nil      Procurement of equipment and their
installation (which has recently been
completed) was delayed
(b) Spate                              Nos.    Not defined  Not defined      Nil      All existing wadi flow sites mostly
damaged during 1994 civil strife.
Procurement of equipment and their
installation (which has recently been
completed) was delayed2230 up to
June 1998 and 239 afterwards,
(c) Groundwater                        Nos.    Not defined   Not defined   2230 up    2230 wells (owned by farmers) were
to June     monitored up to June 1998 and their
1998 and    monitored data is computerized,
239 after-   After June 1998, the number of
wards       wells to be monitored was reduced
to 239due to constraint of local
budget.
- 19-



(3) Categorization of Aquifers               Nos.    Not defined   Not defined     19      Includes 4 alluvial aquifers,
(4) Basin Plans Initiated                    Nos.    Not defined   Not defined     Nil     Activity transferred to NWRA.
(5) Trenching Private Sector                  Ha     Not defined   Not defined    8,000
(6) Share of Private Trenching in total       %      Not defined   Not defined     75
(7) Piped Conveyance System:
(a) Pre-project Irrigated Area           ha        12,500     Not defined    9,200
(estimated)
(bh Area Irrigated after installation    ha        14,350        8,500       10,600   This is on account of reduction in
the target area from 14,350 ha as
per SAR 1992 to 10,600 ha
actually achieved.
(S) Pilot Systems Operating                  Nos.       220           165          66      As revised during MTR.
(9) Incremental Spate Cropping               Hla       2,400         2,400        1,175    This excludes incremental spate area
under Ali Salim SDW (Shabwa) and
SBRW on wadi Dowmarine designed
and supervised by LWCP but
implemented under EFRP
(Cr. 2932).
(10) Saving of water due to Piped
Conveyance System and its economic cost:                                                   From wells irrigating 10,600 ha.
(a) Groundwater pumped annuallv         Mm3    Not defined   Not defined      113
from the target area
(b) Annual net saving of water due to   Mm3    Not defined   Not defined       15
piped conveyance system
B. FORESTRY
B.A: Institutional progress
(I) Agricultural Graduates Appointed         Nos.        18       Not defined      18
(2) Training Completed
(i) Foreign (through FAO)
(a) MSc                                 Nos.         15       Not defined      9
(b) One Year Diploma                    Nos.         9        Not defined      4
(c) Two Year Diploma (Latakia)          Nos.         15       Not defined      15
(d) Short-term Training/Study tours     Nos.      4 (WID)    Not defined       59
(ii) In-Country (Through AMIDEAST/
ICSMS)                                   Nos.         6       L.S. provision    5
(a) MSc                                 Nos.         -         of amount       Nil
(b) One Year Diploma                    m/m         447                       300
(c) Short-term Training to Extension
and other Staff
20 -



B.2: Technical assistance Rendered
(i) Forestry Advisor                       S/m         48
(ii) Woodland Management
- Expat.                                S/m         36           30          36      FAO
-UNVlLocal                              S/m         36           30          34      FAO
(iii) Watershed Management
-Expat.                                  S/m        29           36           46     FAO
-UNV/Local                               S/m        48           30           24     FAO
(iv) Terrace Stabilization-Expat.          S/m         3            -            -
(v) Sand Fixation    -Expat.               S/m         6             -           -
-UNV/Local               S/m         -            4           44     Direct (National Consultants)
(vi) M & E         -UN V/Local             S/m         60            -
(vii) Wild Life Expert -Expat.             S/m         4             -           -
(viii) WID         -Expat.                 S/m         4            4            3      FAO 2 and IDA I
-UNV/Local               S/m          -           30          14      FAO
(ix) Soil Conservation -UNV/Local           S/m                     120         144    FAO (National Consultants)
(x) Survey        -UNV/Local                S/m         -           30      -
B.3: Physical progress
(1) Fore-dune Constructed (4 nos.)          M         800          800         3,600    2,600 m in Abyan and 1,000 m in
Shabwa.
(2) Shelterbelts constructed along          Ha         35           35        146 kms  Lahej, Abyan, Shabwa and Taiz.
WadiKabir
(3) Trees Planted                         Kms of        10          10           57     57 krns. In Lahej, Abyan   and
roads                                        Shabwa. In addition, 4,800 seedlings
distributed in Shabwa and 7,500 in
Abyan.
(4) Stone Dams and Afforestation            Ha         200          200          20     Check dams to protect/reclaim 20
ha in Al-Dhala'a constructed. In
_   addition, I 0,000 seedlings planted.
- 21 -



(5) New Nurseries Established                Nos.         2            2            2      At-Masara  (Hajja)  and  Madina
Al-Shark (Dhamar) each with a
capacity of 125,000 seedlings per
year established.
(6) Inland and Coastal Sand Dune Fixation     Ha         40            40           37     32 ha in Abyan and 5 ha in Lahej.
(7) Canal bank and Flood Protection          Kms.        20            20          12.6    Lahej, Abyan and Shabwa.
(8) Aerial Photography completed for         Km2    Not defined   Not defined      Nil     Only ground survey was done.
Terrace Rehabilitation
(9) Area of Woodland Ma  ed                  Km2   Not defined   Not defined       Nil    Existing maps analyzed.
B.4: Operating Performance
(I) Seedlings Produced                  Million      1.06         1.06      0.5 (1999)  A capacity of 0.80 million seedlings
0.23 (1998) per year was created by strengthening
0.18 (1997) 21 existing nurseries (capacity
0.10 (1996) 507,450 seedlings annually),
rehabilitating 4 nurseries in Lahej,
Abyan, Shabwa and Al-Dhala'a
(capacity 35,000 seedlings) and
establishing 2 new nurseries in
Al-Masara (Hajja) and Madinat
Al-Shark (Dhamar) with a total
capacity of 250,000 seedlings per
year.
(2) Seedlings Planted                    Million   Not defined   Not defined   0.95 (up to
1999)
(3) Seedlings Destroyed                  Million   Not defined   Not defuned    0.05     About 5%.
(4) Planted Trees Surviving                Nos.    Not defined   Not defined    700,000   75-89%.
(5) Cost pet Seedling                       YR     Not defined   Not defined    25-35    In Sana'a, the cost is around YR 25
per seedling, while in Abyan it is YR
35 per seedling.
(6) Reduction in Sand Movement              %      Not defined   Not defined    60-70%    Abyan Site.
(7) Management Plans
(a) Woodland Management Plans           Nos.    Not defined   Not defined      2      (i) to set up a National Park in Jebel
Bura'a; and (ii) to protect and
rehabilitate Jebel Iraf Woodland.
(b) Watershed Management Plans             Nos.         2            2            2      An integrated participatory approach
to watershed management within
Wadi Shares and upper catchment of
Wadi Rima was developed and
representative sites selected for
implementation on a pilot basis
covering activities like vetiver hedges
on steep eroded slopes, afforestation,
gully protection, river bank
protection, water harvesting, terrace
rehabilitation and agro-forestry.
- 22 -



(c) Terrace Rehabilitation Plans          Nos.     Not deinfed   Not defined   I (25Ha)    9 pilot sites were selected in
Al-Mahaweet- Shibam (2 sites),
Al-Tawila (2 sites), Roujoum
(2 sites) for restoration of terrace
and repair of terrace walls, erosion
control and soil protection with
farmers' participation.
(9) Pilot Sites Implemented:
(a) Woodland Management                      Nos.    Not defined   Not defined       I       Priority was accorded to Jebel Iraf
(Al-Hissen 56 ha) where a village
nursery was established, approach
road to Jebel Iraf was improved,
reservoir constructed, provision of
irrigation equipment made in 1.0 ha,
plantation done in 3 ha with fodder
species, fruit trees and multi-purpose
plantation, 150 gas cylinders were
distributed against use of wood for
cooking. In Taiz and Ibb area the
project planted, in more tha 12 ha,
trees for agro-forestry, shelter-belts,
and public tree planting with average
survival rate of over 75%.
(b) Watershed Management                     Nos.    Not defined   Not defined      43       27 sites on Wadi Shares and 16 sited
on Wadi Rima were implemented
with farmers' participation. Wadi
Bank Protection works were
undertaken, and retaining walls and
spurs constructed for 2,300 m
benefiting 176 families and
preventing wadi banks erosion of
fertile coffee plantation and
reclaimed new arable lands. 182
loose-stone check dams were
constructed resulting in sediment
deposit behind these reclaiming new
arable lands. A pilot water harvesting
structure benefiting 100 families was
constructed in Wadi Rima catchment.
(c) Terrace Rehabilitation                  Nos.    Not defined   Not defined    9 (25 ha)  Pilot Terrace Rehabilitation works
were implemented by farmers, on
self-help operation basis with
project support in terms of material
and machinery on 9 sites benefiting
50 families. The activities include
construction of 4 reservoirs
(120 m3), restoration ofterrace
walls, construction of check dams
and diversion canals to protect
cultivated terraces, improvement
of access roads, and planting of
3,500 forest trees and 500 fruit trees-
on degraded terraces.
(d) Sand Dune Stabilization                  ha      Not defined   Not defined      37      Inland and coastal sand dunes
covering 32 ha in Abyan and 5 ha in
Lahej were fixed using biological
fixation and mechanical fixation with
micro-wind breaks of palm fronds and
dry plant material.
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Institutional Strengthening: Water Resources          5.61           8.36            149
Institutional Strengthening: Forestry                 4.12           3.59             87
Spate Irrigation                                      6.01           3.75             62
Groundwater Irrigation                               18.81           7.41             39
Agricultural Development                              1.53            1.63           107
Implementation Units                                  4.52           2.23             49
Land Conservation / Afforestation                     4.21            1.74            41
Watershed Management                                  2.83            1.41            50
Total Baseline Cost                                  47.64          30.12
Total Project Costs             47.64           30.12
Total Financing Required              47.64          30.12
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          3.72          6.27          0.00         9.99
(0.00)       (2.37)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.37)
2. Goods                     24.77         0.00          1.10          0.00        25.87
(20.40)       (0.00)        (1.01)       (0.00)       (21.41)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          9.27          0.00         9.27
(0.00)       (0.00)        (9.02)        (0.00)       (9.02)
4. Operating Costs           0.00          0.00          0.00          2.50         2.50
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     24.77          3.72         16.64         2.50        47.63
(20.40)       (2.37)       (10.03)       (0.00)       (32.80)
- 24 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          ICa            Nr                           N.S.F       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            3.18          0.61            0.00          3.79
(0.00)         (2.96)         (0.54)         (0.00)        (3.50)
2. Goods                         8.41           7.40           0.87            0.00          16.68
(8.41)         (7.33)         (0.84)         (0.00)        (16.58)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00          9.14            0.00          9.14
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.68)         (0.00)        (8.68)
4. Operating Costs               0.00            0.00           0.50           0.00          0.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         8.41           10.58          11.12           0.00          30.11
(8.41)        (10.29)        (10.06)         (0.00)        (28.76)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Overview of Assumptions
Economic Analysis
The economic analysis was calculated in Yemeni Rials in 1997 prices, with current prices deflated to 1997
prices using the Consumer Price Index as a proxy for the GDP deflator. No shadow pricing for foreign
exchange was performed, since the official exchange rate broadly reflected the equilibrium exchange rate
during the period of analysis. Labor was shadow priced at 50% of the market wage rate, reflecting the
opportunity cost of labor since unemployment is widespread in rural areas. Shadow prices for agricultural
inputs and outputs were applied using the values provided in the World Bank's 1997 Agricultural Sector
Review.
The analysis includes only the costs and benefits that can be attributed to groundwater irrigation
development, spate irrigation, and watershed management, including overhead costs for equipment, vehicles
and some technical assistance provided specifically for the support of on-farm activities. The costs and
benefits of forestry, technical assistance for the PMIU, training and support for water resources
management are excluded, because (i) the benefits of the forestry component are mainly of an
environmental nature and should not be quantified only in economic terms, and (ii) technical assistance,
training and support for water resources management are part of institutional strengthening and have a
broader, non-quantifiable impact beyond the farrm-level activities supported under the project. The
investment costs included in the analysis (US$ 20.4 million) account for 68 % of total investment costs
(US$ 30.1 million). If all project costs are included, as it was done for the SAR, the NPV falls to US$ -2.0
million and the ERR to 10 %.
The benefits from watershed management do not include externalities, but only benefits that accrue to the
landowners themselves. These benefits have been assessed through the estimated increase in land value.
Any future benefits from improved production are already included in the increased land values and are
thus not shown during later years, when these benefits are shown as zero.
Cost-Benefit Stream for LWCP (excluding forestry as well as some TA and training)
- 26 -



Costs                        | Benefits                                     | Net
Investment Incremental Total    from Piped  from Spate  from       Total    Benefits
Year               Operating           Conveyance Works and      Watershed
System     Bank Protection Management
YR mill.  YR mill.   YR mill.  YR mill.   YR mill.      YR mill.   YR mill.  YR mill.
1993       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0            0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0
1994      14.6       15.4     30.0        0.0           -1.6         0.0     -1.6    -31. 6
1995     183.9        7.3    191.3        0.0           14.7         0.0     14.7   -176:5
1996     769.1       32.2    801.3        0.1           -6.4         0.0     -6.3   -807.6
1997     152.6       65.7    218.3        16.2         -14.5        61.1     62.9   -155.4
1998     424.2       40.2    464.4       100.8         -55.2        56.0    101.7   -362.7
1999     379.0       31.7    410.6      347.1         -117.2        32.6    262.5   -148.1
2000     375.2       41.3    416.5      423.4          -27.5        14.2    410.1      -6.4
2001      35.8       10.0     45.8      528.7           26.1         0.0    554.9    509.1
2002       0.0        0.0      0.0      529.2           77.1         0.0    606.3    606.3
2003       0.0        0.0       0.0     529.2           20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2004       0.0        0.0       0.0      529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2005       0.0        0.0       0.0      529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2006       0.0        0.0      0.0       529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2007       0.0        0.0      0.0       529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2008       0.0        0.0      0.0      529.2           20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2009       0.0        0.0      0.0      529.2           20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2010       0.0        0.0       0.0      529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2011       0.0        0.0       0.0      529.2          20.2         0.0    549.4    549.4
2012       0.0        0.0       0.0      529.2          78.3         0.0    607.6    607.6
NPV YR m                                                                                  378.7
NPV US$ m                                                                                   3.2
ERR                                                                                       16.3%
Financial Analysis
In accordance with ecological variations across project areas, seven farm models are used for the financial
analysis of the groundwater component, representing the areas covered by each PIU: Northern Highlands,
Tihama, Dhamar (Central Highlands), Taiz, Lahej, Abyan, and Shabwa. The without project scenario
reflects current practice on farms not supported under the project. The with project scenario is based on
on-site monitoring in the seven PIUs. In the Highlands (PIUs Northern, Dhamar, Taiz and Shabwa) it
assumes a reduction in groundwater pumping, while in the Coastal Plains (PIUs Tihama, Lahej and Abyan)
it assumes an increase in the irrigated area. In all areas, the model assumes a slight change in the cropping
pattern towards higher-value crops, slightly higher yields, a somewhat higher cropping intensity, a shift
from manure to mineral fertilizer for some crops, and a higher labor input. Many of these changes are due
to increased efforts by the farmers to increase the value of their production in order to recoup the
investment costs for the irrigation equipment as quickly as possible.
A more detailed overview of assumptions and the spreadsheets have been filed electronically in the
MNSRE document library.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implemcntation    Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                          Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/89                         5    Irrigation Engineer, Ag.
Economists (2), Forestry
Specialists, Agronomist
06/89                         1   Forestry Specialist
01/90                         4   Ag. Economist, Agronomist,
Irrigation Engineer, Financial
Analyst
10/90                         1   Sr. Irrigation Engineer
06/90                         4   Ag. Economist, Irrigation
Engineer, Agronomist, Financial
Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/91                         6   Irrigation Engineers (2), Ag.
Economist, Forestry
Specialist, Agronomist,
Economist
08/91                         1   Water Resource Specialist
09/91                         2   Ag. Economist, Irrigation
Engineer
10/91                         1   Forestry Specialist
03/92                         1   Ag. Economist
Supervision
07/92                          2   Irrigation Engineer, Sr. Ag.           HS               HS
Economist
02/93                          1   Sr. Ag. Economist                       S                S
10/93                         3   Sr. Agronomist, Sr. Irrigation          S                S
Engineer, Sr. Ag. Economist
04/94                          2   Prin. Irrigation Engineer, Sr. Ag.      S                S
Economist
10/94                         3   Sr. Agriculturist, Sr. Irrigation       S                 S
Engineer, Sr. Ag. Economist
08/95                          1   Prin. Irrigation Engineer              U                 S
04/96                          2   Prin. Irrigation Engineer, Sr.          S                S
Irrigation Engineer
10/96                          3   Sr. Agriculturist, Sr. Irrigation      S                S
Engineer, Agriculturist
07/97                          4   Sr. Agriculturist, Sr. Economist,       S                S
Sr. Irrigation Engineer,
Agriculturist
02/98                          4   Sr. Agriculturist, Sr. Economist,       S                S
Sr. Agriculturist, Agriculturist
10/98                         5   Prin. Irrigation Engineers (2), Sr.     S                S
Operations Officer, Sr.
Economist, Ag. Economist
- 28 -



03/99                          2   Prin. Irrigation Engineer, Sr.         S                S
Operations Officer
08/99                          4   Prin. Irrigation Engineer,             S                S
Natural Resource Specialist,
Projects Specialist
04/2000                        2   Prin. Irrigation Engineer, Sr.          S                S
Operations Officer
10/2000                       2   Lead Irrigation Engineer, Sr.           S                S
Operations Officer
ICR
2/2001                        4    Irrigation Engineer, Sr.                S                S
Operations Officer,
Economist, Sr. Irrigation
Engineer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/;Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 87.20                         237.40
Appraisal/Negotiation                      52.70                         165.10
Supervision                               150.33                         443.96
ICR                                         14.73                         64.07
Total                                     304.96                         910.53
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                                O H  * SU OM   O N  O NA
O Financial                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU* M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
El Gender                            O H OSUOM * N O NA
El Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management                 0 H  O SU* M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
El Lending                                            OHS*S  OU   Otfru
El Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
Of Overall                                            OHS *S   Q U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
LI Preparation                                        OHS *s  O  U  Q HU
Li Government implementation performance              0 HS O S   *  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   0  U  O HU
El Overall                                            OHS *S  0  U  Q HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The documents in each section are listed in chronological order. Selected key documents are available in an
electronic form in the MNSRE electronic document library - a Lotus Notes database - and are marked with
an asterisk (*).
WATER RESOURCES AND IRRIGATION
1. "Appraisal of Groundwater Resources in the Amran Region, Sana'a Govemorate". M.T. Jones,
Geohydrology Consultant, July 1996. TR No. 1.
2. "Appraisal of Groundwater Resources in the Sa'adah Plain, Sa'adah Govemorate." M.T. Jones,
Geohydrology Consultant, July 96. TR No. 2.
3. "Technical Assistance to the LWCP, Water Resources/Irrigation Component Preparatory Phase -
Project Findings and Recommendations." Terninal Report. TR No. 3.
4. Hydrometeorological Network of Yemen: Evaluation and Proposal for Optimized Network." Tin
Maung, Hydrology Consultant, September 1996. TR No. 4.
5. "Cost Recovery for Investment in Groundwater Improved Irrigation Conveyance System." Nagib
Abdul Lateef, Legal Consultant, October 1996.
6. "Public Awareness Campaign." Mahmoud Saleh Agamia, Communication Consultant, December
1996. TR No. 5.
7.* "Assistance to the CWMU in Groundwater Monitoring and Aquifer Simulation Modeling." Paolo
Romano, Geohydrology Consultant, January 1997. TR No. 6. (covers the Abyan Delta, the Sana'a
Basin, the Axmran region, and the Sa'adah region).
8. "Pilot Studies on the Use of Saline Groundwater." Ghulam Haider, Salinity Consultant, March
1997. TR No. 7.
9. "Development of Groundwater Reclamation and Reuse Practices for Urban Areas of Yemen. Part
A." Andreas N. Angelakis, Wastewater Reuse Consultant, July 1997. TR No. 8.
10. * "Assistance to the CWMU in Groundwater Monitoring and Aquifer Simulation Modeling." Paolo
Romano, Geohydrology Consultant, August 1997. TR No. 9. (covers the Sa'adah plain, the Dhamar
govemorate, and the Tuban Delta).
11. Development of Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse Practices for Urban Areas of Yemen. Part B."
A. N. Angelakis, Wastewater Reuse Consultant. TR No. 10.
12.* "Assistance to the CWMU in Groundwater Monitoring and Aquifer Simulation Modeling." P.
Romano, Geohydrology Consultant, December 1997. TR No. 11. (covers the Shabwa Govemorate).
13. "Public Awareness Campaign." M. Uvais Ahmed, Public Awareness Consultant, December 1997.
14. "Pilot Studies on the Use of Saline Water." B.K. Garg, Salinity Consultant, April 1998. TRNo.
- 32 -



15. Research Trial on Effect of Irrigation Frequency and Leaching Fraction on Salinity Control.
Season 98-99. Mekki A. Omar et al.
16. Report on Study of Saline Water Use in Irrigation and Achieved Results in Tihama Plain. Adel
Al-Khirbash, National Consultant.
17. Proceedings of the Workshop on Water Resources Management in Yemen with emphasis on:
Wastewater Treatment, Reclamation and Reuse. 16-18 December 1997. A.N. Angelakis and S.
Thirugnanasambanthar (editors.) September 1998.
18. "Inception Report." M. Bazza, Irrigation Agronomist. January 1999.
19.* Yemen hydro-meteorological network: Selection of hydro-meteorological stations site. M. Tayaa,
Hydrology Consultant. October 1999.
20. "Field Mission Reports." M. Bazza, Irrigation Agronomist. Fifteen reports.
21. * Technical and Economic aspects of water savings. M. Bazza, Irrigation Agronomist. April 2000.
Revised June 2000 and August 2000.
22. Water Savings Data. M. Bazza, Irrigation Agronomist. September 2000.
23.* Project Terminal Report. M. Bazza. October 2000.
Papers Prepared by the Project for the Workshop on 'Waste Water'
1. Scope of the Workshop
2. Potential for Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse in Yemen
3. Water Resources Degradation and the Risk of Extensive Desertification in Yemen
4. Groundwater Over-Exploitation and Monitoring
5. Natural Treatment Systems of Municipal Wastewaters: Design and Operation Principles
6. Wastewater Reclamation and Reuse in the Mediterranean Basin
7. Decentralized Systems for Wastewater Management with Emphasis to Aquatic Treatment Systems
8. Groundwater Recharge with Reclaimed Wastewater Effluents
Papers Prepared by the Project for the Workshop on 'Water Savings'
1. Working Document for the Workshop on the Assessment of Water Savings resulting from the
Irrigation Technology introduced by the LWCP.
2. Report of the Workshop on the Assessment of Water Savings resulting from the Irrigation
Technology introduced by the LWCP.
3. Questionnaires to be used by PIUs for assessing the Water Savings. In Arabic.
4. Recommendations of the Workshop on the Assessment of Water Savings resulting from the
Irrigation Technology introduced by the LWCP. In Arabic.
- 33 -



Papers Prepared by the Project for the Workshop on 'Achievements of the L WCP'
1. General about the Project
2. Water Monitoring
3. Agro- and Hydro-Meteorological Stations
4. Irrigation Technology
5. Private Sector in Irrigation
6. Institutional Development and Capacity Building
7. Experience and Viewpoint of the PIUs
8. Achievements in Forestry
FORESTRY
1. * FAO: Technical Assistance to Land and Water Conservation Project (Forestry Component), Yemen,
Terminal Report, Rome 2000.
2. Methodology of Participatory Watershed Management. H. Hadi. (In English).
3. Methodology and Sites Selection for Woodland Management. M. Houmymid.
4. Vegetation Survey of Wadi Shares Watershed. A. Al Khuleidi. (In English).
5. Vegetation Survey of Wadi Rima'a Watershed. A. Al-Khuleidi. (In English).
6. Socio-Economic Study of the Selected Sites for Terrace Rehabilitation in Al Mahweet Area. A. Al
Haimi. (In English).
7. Socio-Economic Study of Wadi Shares Watershed. A. Al Hakimi. (In English and Arabic).
8. Socio-Economic Study of Wadi Rima'a Watershed. H. Al Oudi. (In English and Arabic).
9. Socio-Economic Study of the Woodland of Jebel Iraf A. Al Hakimi. (In English and Arabic).
10. Socio-Economic Study of the Zaida Acacia Woodland. A. Al Hakimi. (In English and Arabic).
11. Program of Work of Sand Dune Stabilization in Abyan, Lahej and Shabwa. M. Bazar'a. (In English).
12. Work Plan of the Terrace Rehabilitation in Al Mahweet Area. M. Houmymid. (In English).
13. Methodology for Study of Zyziphus Spina Christii as an Agroforestry Tree.
14. Woodland Management Plan for Jabel Iraf. M. Hourmymid. (In English).
15. Woodland Management Plan for Jebel Bura'a. M. Houmymid. (In English and Arabic).
16. Watershed Management Plan for Wadi Shares. H. Hadri. (In English).
17. Strategy of Desertification Controlling the Near East. (In English and Arabic).
18. A Contribution to the Formulation of the Natural Resources Management Strategy. H. Hadri. (In
English).
19. A Draft Report on the Assessment of the Household Energy Strategy. H. Hadri et al. (In English).
20. Torrent Control in Wadi Shares and Wadi Rima'a. I.G. Harmond. (In English).
21. A Strategy for Introducing Gender Concems into the Forestry Component. S. Saidi. (In English and
Arabic).
22. Understanding of Desertification in the Republic of Yemen: Its Causes and Socio-Economic Aspect.
M. Houmymid. (In English and Arabic).
23. Ecology, Utilization and Silviculture of Zyziphus Spina Christii. (In Arabic).
24. Technical Note of Tages Minuta Sp. (In Arabic).
25. Technical Note of Adansonia Digitata. (In Arabic).
26. Technical Paper on Energy Strategy of the GDFDC. (In English and Arabic).
27. Several Reports (Inception report, progress reports, mid-term review reports, field visit reports, annual
and monthly work plans and end-of-assignment reports).
28. Several Data Collection forms (terrace rehabilitation, forest inventory, agroforestry study, study form
for livestock, study form for wildlife, study form for bee-keeping, study form for water harvesting, study
- 34 -



form for tree planting, etc.)
29. Three Cooperation Agreement Types: Establishment of Village Nurseries, Forest Protection and
Management, Terrace rehabilitation.
30. Regeneration and Seed Germination of Juniperus Procera, with Reference to Jebel Iraf Forest.
31. Causes of the Die Back Phenomena of the Juniperus Procera.
32. Brief courses on woodland management, nursery techniques, tree planting, forestation's, sand dune
stabilization, watershed management, aerial photograph interpretation and Rapid Rural Appraisal.
33. Drawing of Structure and Specification for Wadi Rima'a. Khaled Al Attas. (In English).
34. Drawing of Structure and Specification for Wadi Shares. Khaled Al Attas. (In English).
35. Watershed Management Plan of Wadi Rima'a. A. Al Khuleidi. (In English).
36. End-of Assignment Report. Arachilalage Baminiwate. (In English).
37. Consultative meeting with the rural leaders on terrace degradation in Al Mahweet area. (In English and
Arabic).
38. Assessment of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification. Ahmed Hayel et al. (In English and
Arabic).
39. Booklet of the Land and Water Conservation Project (Forestry Component). H. Hadri. (In English).
40. Guidelines of Forestation Techniques for Women. Raja Al Aghbari. (In English).
41. Draft of the Study of Forest Nursery Seedling Costs. Abdelassalam Hayel. (In Arabic).
42. Scenario and Scientific Material of Two Television Films on Desertification and Watershed
Management. Abdul Salam Hayel. (In Arabic.)
- 35 -






A2'                                  44'                                 4A                                     4B0                                   505                                   I2RD31316
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                          SAUDI ARABIA    _ -
LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                                                                                   ---
0Saddat ash Shuqqah                     0-7.RPOr                                        1
C=    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT BOUNDARIES         j    PORTS                                                                                                                                                                      MEN       .      I
0    TOWNS AND VILLAGES                          ---   WADIS                                                    i\
    GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                               GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                  5
I            *    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          j                                              ,
ARPORTS
-    5   t;    ')._  r-t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@~~  X   ~~~~-_  _   _-_   /              ,                                ;     /'                    AL-        ,          \~~~~~~~~~~~~AL  Hfa
SAADAH                                                                     //                 j                   ;aj                                       MAHARA   .Hbat'
'zi-                                                                                  4AHRAH  AMRAN  A ,oam  9a nSib 0IA1Ghural                                                    QNihtn
m  t00  t   a ri b &   4      R      A    ,   ,         0 , tA         Al Magh=rim                     Al GhaydahO    auczeyr                              PROJECt IMPLfSMf NWIPROJCTOIMNLMENTATIN NUNITSIPIUs)
X   >  D  _  2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L-O F                                                                 Z..k
SAN n  E  l A  l4                       s ~                                      MagHAri         A           Al U hT dah    0sApr                                 I NORTH ERN_
TH OPAU                                                               -xL;, _,.da                            ,,                                                                                               : 0 0 000HJA  0  T.  cSAIGI,,. F
~~~  Hays0                                                                                                                                                    6. ARYAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .  Q6
M'     R                                                                                                                                    RJCTIPEETAINUISOROPtUO
tta
"N                    2          Y       .    -4,                                            R, srs,daa  a3a.DHAMARtTeaIdar                          2    0 75 TI ILMTRSIao
~~                      It,. ha,a~~,a.. a t.daaaoRaattapt. an any'attn.rintaanaRan stnawn  I    I    I    I   I ~~A. TAI
ETHIOPIA  /   *X'G                                                                                                                           I       o      25  A 0         75     7OILESDaBWA
T     Socoratra
~      JIBOUTI                                                                                                                                                                                                         ly-I
APRIL 2001



