                                    Documentof
                                 TheWorldBank




                                                     ReportNo. 35004




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT




                                      YEMEN



    LANDAND WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2373-YEM)

         TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT PROJECT (CREDIT 2913-YEM)

 SANA'A WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 3209-YEM)




                                 February 22,2006




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = YemeniRial (YR)

1994              US$l  .oo               YR 103
1995              US$l  .oo               YR 115
1996              US$l.oo                 YR 135
1997              US$l  .oo               YR 135
1998              US$l.oo                 YR 135
1999              US$l.oo                 YR 147
2000              US$1  .oo               YR 152
2001              US$1  .oo               YR 165
2002              US$1.oo                 YR 176
2003              US$l  .oo               YR 178
2004              US$l.oo                 YR 184
2005              US$l .oo                YR 190

AbbreviationsandAcronyms

CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
CWRAS                     Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy
ERR                       Economic Rate o f Return
FA0                       Food and Agriculture Organization
GSCP                      Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project
ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IEG                       Independent Evaluation Group
KfW                       German Aid Agency
LWCP                      Land and Water Conservation Project
NWRA                      NationalWater Resources Authority
NWSA                      NationalWater and Sanitation Authority
NWSSIP                    NationalWater Sector Strategy and Investment Program
O&M                       Operations and Maintenance
PPAR                      Project PerformanceAssessment Report
PSP                       Private Sector Participation
PMU/PIU                   Project Management/ImplementationUnit
Sana'a WSSP               Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project
SBWMP                     Sana'a Basin Water Management Project
SURDU                     Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
Taiz WSPP                 Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
UFW                       Unaccounted for water
uwss                      UrbanWater Supply and Sanitation Sector
UWSSP-APL                 UrbanWater Supply and Sanitation Project -Adjustable ProgramLoan
WRM                       Water Resources Management

Fiscal Year
Government:               January 1-December 31


Director-General, Evaluation                             : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank             : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation          : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.George T. KeithPitman

                                                              i


          Missionzhancingdevelopmenteffectiveness through excellenceand independenceinevaluation.                      I
 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activitiesof theWorld Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
 dissemination of lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percent of the
 Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are innovative,
 large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which Executive
 Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate important lessons.
 The projects, topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluationstudies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEGstaff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEG studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


Aboutthe IEG RatingSystem
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEGare suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevanceof Objectives; The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intendedand unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extentto which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                      111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................             v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................            v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................               ..
                                                                                                                                                      vi1

Summary      ..........................................................................................................................                ..
                                                                                                                                                      vi1

1 Yemen's Water Crisis
 .                                       ..................................................................................................            1

2 The Three Projects
 .                                  .......................................................................................................            4
         TheLand and Water Conservation Project (FY92) .................................................                                               4
         The Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project (FY99) .......................................                                                 4
3 Monitoring& Evaluation& FiduciaryIssuesfor the Three Projects
 .                                                                                                                               ....................  5

         M&E Design. Implementation and Utilization........................................................                                            5
         Other Issues (safeguards. jiduciav. unintended impacts-positive and negative) ...5
4 Ratings
 .              ..........................................................................................................................             6

         TheLand and Water Conservation Project .............................................................                                          6
         The Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project .....................................................................                                    10
         The Sana'a Water Supply and SanitationProject .................................................                                              15
         TheLimited Learning by the Bank.........................................................................                                     19
5 Lessons
 .             ........................................................................................................................               19

6 The Way Forward
 .                                ......................................................................................................              21

Annex A BasicDataSheet
           .                               ..............................................................................................             23

Annex B ProjectComponentsand Costs
           .                                                         ......................................................................           29

Annex C BankFinancedWater ProjectsinYemen
           .                                                                             ....................................................         31

Annex D Water ResourcesManagement:The Needto Learn(Sana'aWater
           .
    Projectsfrom 1974)              ....................................................................................................              33

Annex E LearningfromExperience:Adaptations inthe Groundwater
          .
    ConservationProgram                   ..............................................................................................              35

Annex F Water Sector FocusinYemen StrategyDocuments
          .                                                                                                ....................................       37

This reportwas preparedbyKeithOblitas. Consultant who assessedthe projects inJuly 2005.The report
was editedby William Hurlbut. andSoon-WonPakprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                                                        V



  PrincipalRatings

  Land                                                                                                                                                          000
                                                                                                                                                                                x  -*-
                                                                         ICR*                  ICR Review*                                                             PPAR
  Outcome                                                            Satisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory                                                 Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                                         Likely                      Unlikely                                                          Likely
  InstitutionalDevelopment                                              Modest                       Modest                                                           Modest
  Impact
  Bank Performance                                                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
  Borrower Performance                     ---                       Satisfactory               Satisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
                                                         a*-                                         _ v r n = w -       *---         =-"-*                                                 , -/I^




  Taiz Water Supply PilotProject(Credit2913-YEM)- 1996-2001
                                           _^__I                                              ~ -                    . ~                                          - ."                  ___       -
                                                                                   l_-ll-l_


  Outcome                                                           Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                                       Unlikely                      Unlikely                                                        Unlikely
  InstitutionalDevelopment                                            Negligible                    Negligible                                                        Modest
  Impact
  Bank Performance                                                   Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory
  Borrower Performance                                              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                                             -       Unsatisfactory
                                                         --.)___m"--               __x <-*q_?           ------         .--,.=yI**_                                            -*---


___Sana'a Water
          __-          - -Supplyand-SanitationProject(Credit3209-YEM) __1999-2003
                                     -_I__._            __                            -       -                                    _.__-.                        . _ _ ~ _
                                                      ~                       __-I~"                             "______I


  Outcome                                                           Satisfactory           ModeratelySatisfactory                                   Moderately Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                                         Likely                     Unlikely                                                         Unlikely
  InstitutionalDevelopment                                            Modest                          Modest                                                            High
  Impact
  Bank Performance                                                  Satisfactory                Satisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory
  Borrower Performance                                              Satisfactory            -   Satisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
-e_x_                ?" p,,---=r-sA                                  S  s 2 . rIa     -
                                                                                           I   -LmPm                          &---A                                  --%-*-e-               --,

  * The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
  The ICR Review is an intermediate Independent EvaluationGroup (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the
  findings of the ICR.


  Key StaffResponsible

  LandandWater Conservationw e c t (Credit2373-YEM)                      -
  v - % - L - - . . P                                                                                                                                    -*-----*
                                           I   -a-                    v         _-&*w__r_-i   sv==-                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                    1 B - i m L Y 2
  Project                                                       Task ManagedLeader                      Division Chief/                                          Country Director
                                                                                                       Sector Director
   Appraisal                                                             Rahul Raturi              Ngozi Okonjo-lweala                                            Ram K. Chopra
    Completion                                                                     -----            M. Salah Darghouth
                                                                                                                     --                 -                         MahmoodAyub
    ---r-                                         --.__=_=---         ManuelSchiffler
                                                                       .
               x__j=--             --                                                                                                      --?#-*s*m-I---




 Taiz Wate                              5Pi
                                         -                                                                                         -"---                                            -.%-=
         I -**                                                                                                    I-A                                                           *
   Appraisal                                                             MarioZelaya                   Sonia Hammam                                                lnder K. Sud
   Completion                                                         ManuelSchiffler               EmmanuelForestier                                             MahmoodAyub


 Sana'a Water Supply- and-SanitationProject(Credit3209-YEM)
                                               --                    - ~ - -           -                                            -
                    __I___                                                               _I_.._-
                                        I                                                          ~     -_-"_I-                                       _----
   Appraisal                                                          Amir AI-Khafaji              Jean-ClaudeVilliard                                               lnder Sud
                                                                                      i
                                                                                      ---       ----
                                                                                                   Emmanuel


                                              vii




This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) o fthree projects inthe
Republic o fYemen: the Land and Water Conservation Project, the Taiz Water Supply
Pilot Project and the Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project.

The Land and Water Conservation Projectwas approved inMay, 1992 for an IDA Credit
o f US$32.8 million (Cr. 23730). In1995, due to slow project implementation, US$5.5
million o fthe Credit was cancelled andphysicaltargets reduced, but without changing
the project objectives or components. At project closure, 99 percent o fthe reduced
Credit hadbeen disbursed. The project was closed inDecember 2000, 18 months behind
schedule.

The Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project was approved inSeptember 1996 for an IDA Credit
o fUS$10.2 million (Cr. 29130) o fwhich US$8.5 millionwas disbursed. The project was
closed inDecember 2001, 18 months behind schedule.

The Sana'a Water Supplyand Sanitation Projectwas approved inMay 1999 for an IDA
Credit o fUS$25.0 million (Cr. 32090) o fwhich US$22.7 million was disbursed. The
project was closed inJune 2003,9 months behind schedule.

The report presents the findings of: (i) IEGmissionto YemeninJuly 2005, including
                                         an
visits to project sites and discussions with government officials and agencies, project
directors and staff, beneficiaries, key donors, and academia; (ii) discussions with Bank
task managers and other staff inWashington andYemen; and (iii)        review o fthe projects'
implementationcompletion reports, appraisal reports, legal documents, sector reports and
other relevant material. The collaboration o f allpersons met i s gratefully acknowledged.

The three projects were selectedbecause: first, they provide the possibility o f assessing
different approaches to conserving Yemen's fast depleting groundwater resources -
Yemen's most critical water sector issue - includingdifferences between the rural and
urban sectors; and, second, inthe urbanwater sector, to assess experience inreforming
the corporate management o fwater agencies. The PPARwill also be usedas background
inIEG's forthcoming CountryAssistance Evaluationfor Yemen.

Following standard IEGprocedures, the draft PPARwas sent to the borrower for
comments before being finalized. No comments were received. Inaccordance with the
Bank's disclosure policy, this final report will be available to the public following
submission to the World Bank's Board o fDirectors.


                                                i x


  Summary

  This Project Performance Assessment Report reviews three projects inYemen's water
  sector; one rural andtwo urban. The Land and Water ConservationProject (LWCP) was
  approved in 1992 and closed in2000. The Taiz Water SupplyPilot Project (Taiz WSPP)
  was approved in 1996 and closed in2001. The Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation
 Project (Sana'a WSSP) was approved in 1999 and closed in2003. This cluster
  assessment o f three separate, but related projects revealed a large, growing and common
 problem - that Yemen's water resources are beingseriously minedand that the Bank,
 untilrecently, hadbeentoo focusedon immediateneeds andneglected long-term
  sustainability o f water resources management.

 Bank lending for Yemen's water sector began in 1973, and it was not untilLWCP, the
 Bank's 19thwater sector project (approved nearly 20 years after Board approval o f the
 first water project), that attention was paid to groundwater depletion. And then the
 subsequent two projects, Taiz WSPP and Sana'a WSSP, continued to contain no features
 for sustainable groundwater management.

 Several shortfalls contributed to the neglect o f groundwater management. There was a
 project rather than program approach to the sector, no significant sector work until 1997,
 and a tendency to approachwater from a single sector perspective without considering
 the linkages between urban, rural and other uses. There was no articulated strategy, and
 little consideration o f future needs. It would seem that projects, especially inthe urban
 sector, were primarily infrastructure focused, with only limited attention to institutional
 reform. Insummary, untilthe last several years, there was: a lack ofprioritization, a
 lack of sector work, a lack of cross-sectoral coordination, and a lack of forward
planning.

 The Landand Water ConservationProjectwas the only one ofthe three projects to
 focus on water resources management, and was the first Bank project to do so. The
project pilotedtechnologies to conserve rural water and land and forest resources. Its
most important achievement was to successfullypilot an advanced groundwater irrigation
technology which saved about 25 percent o fwater. Given the water crisis, the project
was highlyrelevant. Efficacy was substantial as it broadly achieved its mainphysical
objectives, but implementation was inefficient as management costs were significantly
higher than planned. Taking all three o fthe above factors into account overall outcome
was satisfactory. The project had an effective large scale training program inthe new
technologies, but otherwise didnot strengthen institutions, and institutional development
was modest. Sustainability i s rated likely as Government commitment to the LWCP
technology i s evidenced bythe launching since L W C P closure o f two follow-on projects.
Staff continuity has also beenbetter than expected. Bank and Borrower performance
were both satisfactory.

The Taiz Water Supply Pilot Projectwas hastily preparedas an emergency project to
increase water supplyto Taiz city. Due to overoptimistic assumptions without the needed
hydrological data, actual water supply providedby the project was only one-third of the
appraisal estimate. The project contained the highly relevant objective to pilot

                                               A




 compensation to farmers for groundwater extracted from their land. However, rather than
 usinga water market approach, compensationwas based on one-time investments which
 failed as continuous incomes were not achieved. Preparation for private sector
 participation made no headway. The outcome for Taiz was unsatisfactory. Some
 strengthening o f the institutions involved was achieved and institutional development i s
 rated modest. Prospects for sustainability are improving as a result o f better water
 management and a strengthened water agency, but several more years o f positive
 progress are appropriate before the present unlikelyrating could be considered for
 upgrading. BothBank and Borrower performance were unsatisfactory.

 The Sana'a Water Supplyand SanitationProject'sprimary objectives to increase
 water supply and sewerage for Sana'a city were largely accomplished. The project's
 main achievement was to transform a Government water agency into a corporation and to
 improve managerial, technical and financial performance. It led the way for
 corporatization and improved efficiency inother towns. Institutional development is rated
 high. However, this strongcorporate management achievement was not accompanied by
 any water resources management activities. This lacuna brings down an otherwise highly
 relevant and well performing project to a moderately satisfactory assessment for
 outcome. Sustainability is assessed as unlikely, given Sana'a's continuing rapid
 drawdown o f its groundwater resources. Bank performance, which was good inmost
 aspects, i s downgraded from satisfactory to unsatisfactory, as the Bank's lack o f focus on
 groundwater management followed repeated advice that this issue needed attention. The
 borrower's performance is rated satisfactory because the corporate reforms required
politically difficult decisions.

 The four key lessons are:

I.Identifyingandtacklingthedominantissue(s)iskeytoaprogram'srelevance
and outcome: The dominant issue is the depletion o fYemen's water resources. The
situation was known some time back. The appraisalreport for the first Sana'a water
project, approved in 1974, commented that the groundwater table was depleting by three
meters per year. Amongst others, IEGcommented on the need for groundwater resources
management inproject performance assessment reports in 1984 and 1998. The latter
report was one year before Sana'a WSSP was approved.

11. A comprehensivestrategy is essential: A strategic analysis andprogramapproach
were largely absent inYemen's water sector for the first 20 years o f the Bank's
involvement. A substantially non-responsive series o f projects was the result. Ifsector
analysis hadbeen done and a comprehensive strategy developed earlier, the groundwater
issue and other needs such as institutional and policy reforms, would likely have received
attention earlier.

111. The water sector requiresmulti-sectoralapproaches: Untilrecently, cross-
sectoral planning and coordination between the rural, urban and other water usingsectors
was largely absent inYemen. This caused disjointed and sometimes conflicting water
management, and likely contributed to Government's and the Bank's limited attention to
comprehensive strategic needs.

                                             xi


IV. Rural-urbanwater marketsneedto be developed: Expandingurbandemandwill
increasingly needrural-urban transfer of water through an equitable mechanism. Formal
water markets have not yet been developed inYemen. One option may be to use and
help expand the already thriving informalwater market o f water transported by tanker
truck. K e y adjustment needs would include establishing water rights and a regulatory
system to limit water abstraction to sustainable yield, perhaps largely self-monitored and
regulatedby rural communities. Pilotingo fpractical options should beginnow.

RecentInitiatives: Inthe last several years the Bank and Government have taken a more
dynamic approach to the water sector. A comprehensive water sector strategy has been
prepared by the Bank and was issued inApril 2005, based on substantial sector work and
dialogue with Government. The Government also produced a strategy paper in2005.
Both reports put priority on groundwater management. N e w and much more relevant
projects are also commencing, such as the Sana'a Basin Water Management Project and
the Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project. Greater emphasis i s also beingpaid to
institutional reform inthe urban water sector, although water resources management still
needs to be integrated. While these recent initiatives have not yet been proven, the way
forward looks more promising. The key challenge now is to implement the new strategy.
Given the initiatives underway and anticipated, regular stock-taking o f achievements and
future needs would be desirable.




                                                                    Vinod Thomas
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                      Evaluation

                                                          1



  1. Yemen's Water Crisis

 1.        Yemen i s one o fthe most water constrained countries inthe world. Water
availability per capita i s 130 cubic meters per year, 10percent o fthe average for the
Middle-East, and only two percent o fthe world averageper capita consumption.' O f
most concern are the trends inwater use. With no significantperennial sources o f surface
water, Yemen relies almost exclusively on exploitation o f groundwater. Water i s taken
from the shallow aquifers which are rechargeable, and increasingly from deeper aquifers
which are not. Inlarge parts o fYemen, water from the shallow aquifer i s abstracted at
well over therecharge from the limitedrainfall. Thus, pumpingis substantially from the
deep (fossil) aquifers which are depleting rapidly. As these deep aquifers cannot be
recharged, pumpingi s essentially a miningoperation. The rate o f depletion has
accelerated over the last three decades for two reasons. First, while farmers, using
shallow dug-wells, hadtraditionally usedgroundwater at about the rate o fnatural
recharge, this changed when tube-well technology andpump-sets were introducedinthe
early 1970s. The number o f agricultural tube-wells, and, consequently, the rate o f rural
groundwater abstraction, has grown rapidly. Nationally, the number o f wells i s now
estimated at some 50,000, with 8,000 inthe Sana'a basinalone. Second, a highurban
population growth rate estimated at about sevenpercent per annum i s greatly increasing
urbanwater demand.

2.         The overall result i s that, throughout Yemen, groundwater levels are falling, and
particularly rapidly inheavily populated areas. The Sana'a and Taiz basins, the sites o f
two o fthe projects inthis review, are among the faster depleting aquifers. Urbanwater
supplyis critically short. For instance, pipedwater is distributedinSana'a only once
every four days, and inTaiz every20-30 days. InSana'a basin, the groundwater table is
falling by about six meters per annum, and rural and urbantube-wells are constantly
beingdeepened. These trends are compounded byhighlyinefficient rural andurbanuse.
Water losses ("unaccounted for water") inurbanwater supply are typically 40 to 50
percent, while, with irrigationefficiency averaging only 40 percent, losses for agriculture
are about 60 percent. Nationally, water abstraction now averages about 125 percent o f
natural recharge.

3.         The IEGmission's discussions with Government officials, andreviewo f
available literature and statistics, found that water use for irrigationi s currently nearly 90
percent o f total water use. Agricultural use has increasedby about 5 percent per annum.
In1990, agriculturalconsumption hadreached 130percent ofYemen's renewablewater
resources, and has since increasedto 150percent. The rapid growth over the last 15
years inthe cultivation o f qat, highlyprofitable for the farmer but also a highwater
consuming crop2,hasbeen one o fthe influencingfactors inthe growth o frural water


1.This is equivalent to 365 liters/capita/day considering domestic, agricultural and all other uses. In
comparison, the average domestic water consumption inthe U S A (without including agricultural and other
uses) i s 696 liters/capita/day; and inAustralia it is 350 liters/capita/day (Source: U S Environmental
Protection Agency, 2003).
2. Qat, consumed by chewing the leaves, i s a mildnarcotic. Use df Qat has grown rapidly, and i s now a
commonplace habit inYemeni households, especially among men. Social and economic repercussions

                                                      2


 consumption. Urbanwater demandi s growing even more rapidly than rural use. Itwas
 less than 10percent o f renewable water in 1990, and i s projected to be more than 20
 percent by 2010.

 4.       Continuationo fthese trends will have serious impacts on Yemen's social fabric
 and economy. As water scarcity grows, irrigation, rural incomes and access to drinking
 water will diminish. This will cause hardship inrural areas; inparticular, for the poor,
 women and girls. The poor have more limited access to groundwater than farmers with
 pump-sets. For women and girls, distance and time to sources o fwater for drinkingand
 domestic use are gettinglonger. This also affects education o f girls as they maybeheld
 back from school to assist with the increased effort requiredto fetch water. For the rural
 populationas a whole, large scale migration to towns i s likely, with attendant urban
 unemployment and other social problems. This will also aggravate the already critical
 urbanwater shortages.

 5.       The two most recent reports on Yemen's water sector; the "Country Water
 ResourcesAssistance Strategy ("CWRAS", Middle East andNorthAfrica Region,
 MENA); and Government's "National Water Sector Strategy and Investment Program"
 (NWSSIP), bothissued inApril 2005, highlight groundwater depletion as Yemen's most
 critical water sector issue. Thus, inits first paragraph, the CWRAS comments "Yemen is
 entering a water crisis that ranks amongst the worst in the world, With the continued
 mining of groundwater in all regions of Yemen,some areas will certainly lose their
 economic viability and even their drinking water supplies, causing displacement and
 resettlement.  "  Likewise, Government's NWSSIP comments "Yemen is approaching a
 water crisis unless actions are taken to reduce unsustainable use of water resources"
 The Bank's 1996 and2002 Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) andthe 2002 Poverty
 Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) also emphasize groundwater management as the key
 water sector need (Annex G). Similar views on the paramount importance inthe water
 sector o f groundwater management were expressedto the IEGmissionbybilateral
 agencies such as the Netherlands and Germany (KfW), both significantly involved with
 Yemen's water sector. Thus, the commonly heldview i s that groundwater management
 needs to be the primary yardstick for assessingactivities inthe water sector. This
 yardstick i s usedto assess the relevance and efficacy o f the three projects evaluated.

 6.      The new strategies, while welcome, nevertheless raise a questionconcerning why
it has taken so longto develop a strategy fully recognizingthe groundwater depletion
issue. Groundwater depletion inYemen hasbeen observable for at least 30 years and i s
even commented on inthe Bank's appraisal report for the first water sector project in
Yemen: the first Sana'a project approved inFY74. The appraisal report commented that
the groundwater table was loweringby some three meters per year. Further,IEGhad
recommended tackling groundwater depletion in 1984 and 1998. But, as discussed in
Annex E, except for water projects approved since 2003, such recommendations have
been ignored. Boththe Bank's and Government's new strategies only refer to water
resourcesmanagement as a recently developingissue. Thus, Yemen i s not "entering" or
"approaching" a water crisis. It i s well into that crisis andhas beenthere for some time.


include depletion o f family finances for more necessary expenditures and, probably, a reductionineffective
work productivity. The issue o f Qat is, however, beyond the scope o fthis PPAR.

Finally, now that a strategy has beenarticulated, the key test o f commitment, and success,
will be for Government to implement the measurescontainedinthe strategy and for Bank
projects to assist implementationo fthese actions and investments.

7.       For evaluating the three projects, two questions are particularlyrelevant:

         e    Does the Project contribute to mitigating unsustainable depletion of
              groundwater resources?

         e    Does theproject contribute to improving the effectiveness, efficiency and
              sustainability of urban water agencies toprovide consumer responsive
              water and sanitation services?

8.       The first question is applicable to all water uses: irrigation, urban, drinkingwater,
sanitation, industries,environmental needs and other uses. Actions that respond to this
question are referredto inthis report as part o fthe "Water Resources Management
( W M , Agenda." Bank and Yemeni literature indicate a variety o f WRM measuresto
mitigate groundwater depletion, on both the rural and urban side. Most are "demand
management" activities rather than the currently predominant "supply side" approach o f
finding and exploiting newwater aquifers. Measures available include: reducing
pumpingand enhancing ruralwater productivitythroughbetter conveyance technology;
increasing irrigation efficiencythrough improvedapplication such as pressure irrigation
(e.g. drip, sprinkler); diversification to less water usingcrops; usingimproved agronomic
practices requiringless water; reducingurbanwater conveyance and distribution losses;
reducing groundwater pollution from domestic and industrialwaste; groundwater
recharge techniques such as usingcheck dams, vegetative bundingand vegetation cover
(forestry, ago-forestry, managedpasture grazing); wastewater management; water
recycling; rooftop water harvesting; improvedcapture o f spate water (flood runofffrom
rainfall); reducing groundwater pollution; price adjustments (e.g. removing subsidies on
diesel fuel) and other economic instruments to reduce water demand; laws and
regulations to control well drilling andrates o f use; community self management o fwater
resources; multi-sectoralbasinplanning and management; watershed management;
publicity campaigns; and other measures.

9.      For the urban sector, the second question i s also relevant as it corresponds to the
Bank's urbanwater supply and sanitation (UWSS) objectives inYemen. Features aimed
for are: strong, decentralized and autonomous water corporations; financial viability;
competent management and trained staff; transparent processes; responsiveness to
stakeholders; efficient water conveyance and distribution; and mitigation o f adverse local
environmental and social impacts. Private sector participationi s also often aimed for to
helpachieve UWSSobjectives more efficiently. These objectives will bereferredto
collectively as the "Corporate Management Agenda.        "

                                              4


  2. The Three Projects

 10.     The projects assessed are: (i) Land and Water Conservation Project (LWCP);
                                       the
(ii) TaizWaterSupplyPilotProject(TaizWSPP);and(iii) Sana'aWaterSupply
     the                                                        the
and Sanitation Project (Sana'a WSSP).

 11.     These projects were chosen becausetheyprovide a diversity o f sector experience
and interlinkedissues. Interesting features include: (i) the distinctly contrasting designs
and experience between the two urbanprojects, and betweenthem and the rural project;
(ii) differences between the three projects inresponsivenessto the WRh4 and corporate
agendas; (iii) the linkagebetweenthe rural andurbanwater sectors; and, (iv) the
pioneeringby eachproject o f a new direction: LWCP ingroundwater management; Taiz
WSPP inattempting a form o fwater market; and Sana'a WSSP inurban sector reform.

12.      Therespective DevelopmentObjectives o fthe three projects are inthe Ratings
Section and the Project Components and Costs are at Annex C.

THELAND WATER CONSERVATIONPROJECT(FY92)
             AND

13.      LWCP was the first project inYemen that focused on water resources
management, pioneeringnew techniques for conserving irrigationgroundwater. The
project comprised three major elements: a water management component primarily for
reducingwater losses ingroundwater irrigated agriculture; a forest and land management
component; and, institution strengthening through consultancy assistance and training.

The Taiz Water Supply PilotProject (FY97)

14.      Taiz WSPP was an emergency project, prepared infour months and responding to
Taiz city's extreme water shortage. Pipedwater was available only once every 40 days.
The project was the first inYemen to attempt to compensate farmers for the groundwater
abstracted.from their land. Taiz WSPP comprised: pumpingequipment for two wells;
conveyance pipesto the city; drilling exploratory wells; a "compensation-package" for
the rural communities expected to have their groundwater depleted bythe project's
abstraction; and studies to prepare Taiz for private sector management ina second phase
project .

THESANA'A WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATION PROJECT(m99)

15.      Sana'a WSSP supported the first attempt to implement Government's new
corporate reform agenda for the urbanwater supply and sanitation sector. The agenda's
central feature was to convert the regionalbranches o f the centrally managed National
Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) into autonomous "Local Corporations." The
new agencieswere to become financially autonomous; to improve technicalefficiency;
andto improve management inall respects. Sana'a WSSP involved, inthe project parts
o fthe city: investmentinthe water distribution network; installation o f sewers; provision
o f additionalwater supply through drillingnew boreholes inand around the city;
providing pipedconveyance; provision o f technical assistance for institutional capacity
building; and fundingto prepare for private sector participationand a follow-onproject.

                                                5


16.      Overall Bank Lending: The situation o fthe projects within the overall Bank
lendingprograminYemen is presentedat Annex D. LWCP (FY92), was the lgthBank
water sector project, and the 4thagriculturalwater (irrigation) project. Taiz WSPP
(FY97) and Sana'a WSSP (FY99) followed several years later. The first o fthe two urban
projects evaluated - Taiz WSPP - commenced 23 years after Bank lending for Yemen's
water sector commenced, andwas the Bank's 12thproject inthe urbanwater supply and
sanitation (UWSS) sector.


 3. Monitoring & Evaluation & Fiduciary Issues for the Three
      Projects

M&EDESIGN,        IMPLEMENTATIONAND UTILIZATION

17.       M&EinProject Design: For all three projects, monitoringindicators were
established duringproject design, but only the Sana'a WSSP appraisal report specifically
related these to the project objectives through a log frame analysis. The monitoring
indicators o f all o fthe projects tended to be on physical achievements, with only limited
reference to outcomes. None o fthe projects contained estimated costs o f M&Einthe
appraisal report.

18.     M&EinImplementation: DedicatedM&E units were not established for any of
the projects. Datawas collectedby operational staff as part o ftheir reporting
requirements. This data was systematically collectedas it i s found inproject and agency
documents, but the ICRs do not indicatethe collectionmethodologies.

19.     M&EUtilization: LWCP's monitoringdatahelpedinformthe MidTerm
Reviewexercise when cuts incomponent size were decided. The Sana'a andTaiz
corporations have found a M&E process to be useful for monitoring performance and
making decisions relatingbothto enhancing efficiency and to expansions o f services.
The IEGmissionfound that Sana'a hasperformance andproduction data over anumber
o f years and uses this for monitoring efficiency and settingannual objectives andplans.

OTHER ISSUES FIDUCIARY, UNINTENDEDIMPACTS-POSITIVEAND
                 (SAFEGUARDS,
NEGATIVE)

20.     The Taiz and Sana'a projects were rated environment category Bywhile LWCP
was rated C. Government prepared an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for
Sana'a WSSP, but no formal report was prepared for Taiz.WSPP. For Taiz, a social issue
was the welfare o fthe communities affected by the well-fields, and a "compensation"
package was includedinthe project.

21.     The key environmentalissue for the projects - and the keyissue for the water
sector as a whole - was the respective projects' impacts on groundwater resources. The
StaffAppraisal Report for Taiz WSPP didnot address groundwater depletion, though the
project's support for NWRA's groundwater monitoring activities was a positive
contribution. Sana'a WSSP's EIA hardly discussed the groundwater issue, though some
project actions such as the sewage network were beneficial, andmeasures to mitigate

                                                              6


 localized issues - cesspit removal, disposition o f dried sewage sludge and hazardous
 chemicals - were included. As a Category C project, LWCP didnot prepare a formal
 EIA. However, the appraisalreport andproject designwere strongly focused on
 environmental management andparticularly on water resources management. Overall,
 the three projects, particularly the urbanprojects, couldhavebenefited from a more
 systematic environmental assessment.

 22.        Measuring environmental impact was generally weak. LWCP hadthe most
 environment related monitoring indicators, but they tended to be physical (trees planted,
 irrigated area under pipeddelivery systems, etc). A number could have been further
 developed. Thus, the key question for water saving with piped delivery i s whether less
 water i s pumpedor whether the same quantities are extracted furnishing a larger irrigated
 area, but this was not assessedthrough systematic survey work. Evaluation of such
 impacts has hadto be largely from interviews with project management staff. Similarly,
 for Taiz WSPP, survey data on how the incomes o f the rural communities inthe well-
 fields hadbeen affected was not found by the IEGmission.

  4. Ratings

 THELAND WATERCONSERVATIONPROJECT
                 AND

 23.        The table below summarizes the outcome ratings discussed inthe subsequent text:

 Table 1: DevelopmentObjectives andOutcomefor LWCP
DevelopmentObjectives                                               Relevance       Efficacy     Efficiencyl
To strengthen sustainable agricultureand assist in better managing
water resources through:
Institutionaland technical developments in irrigation and forestry  High            Substantial
Initiating a program of water use monitoring and regulation in the  High            Modest
agriculture sector
Improving the efficiency and water managementof controlledand       High            Substantial
small-scale spate irrigated agriculture
Conserving key indigenous woodland areas, acceleratingtree          High            Substantial
planting and extending soil and water conservation
Pilot actions to help in establishing an approachfor watershed      High            Modest
management, including rehabilitationof abandoned terraces
               Outcome: Satisfactory                                High            Substantial. Modest


24.        Relevanceof LWCP: (Rating: High). All o fLWCP's five Development
Objectives were relevant inthat they were facets o f the same overall objective to, as
stated inthe appraisal report, "strengthen sustainable agriculture and assist inbetter
managing water resources." This was to be achieved by actions both inland and
integratedwater resources management. LWCP was the first project inYemen for which
WRMwas extensively discussed inthe appraisal report. The project's particular
relevance was inpiloting a possible approach to reduce groundwater abstraction. This
was through the project's largest component which providedP V C pipe conveyance (as
opposed to field channels) for on-farm irrigation. Water savings were about 25 percent.


3. Under IEGprocedures, efficiency i s rated for the project overall, and not by objective.

                                               7


 For more advanced farming, inaddition to the pipe conveyance, on a small scale the
 project piloted applicationo fvarious forms o fpressure irrigation (sprinkler, drip,
 bubble). This is consideredbytechnical specialists to havepossibly savedupto another
 25 percent o fwater. The groundwater results attracted considerable interest from
 Government, and created enthusiasm to proceed further, also supported under the Bank's
 new lendingprogram.

 25.     Efficacy ofLWCP: (Rating: Substantial). LWCP's first objective was
 achieved inthat staff training was considerable andwas reported to the IEGmissionby
 former LWCP management, to have beengenerally o f goodquality. The missionwas
 also advised that the technical skills that were acquired enabled implementation o f the
 project's field activities, many o fwhich were unfamiliar to project staff, Achievement
 was substantial. The project's second objective, to initiatewater monitoring and
 regulationinthe agriculture sector, meaningaccording to the project descriptioninthe
 appraisal report, the strengthening o f groundwater monitoring, had only modest success.
 The numbero fmonitoringwells established exceededtargets, but institutionalcapacity
 for measurement and dissemination was only partly strengthened.

 26.     Theproject's physicalachievements against targets varied, but inmost cases had
 a sufficiently sized achievement to enable field testing. The largest component ineach o f
the land andwater management parts o f the project - forestry and groundwater irrigation,
 corresponding to the project's third and fourth objectives -was well implemented. One
million seedlings were produced under the forestry component, the same as the appraisal
target, and survival rate was satisfactory at 70 percent. Inthe groundwater component
some 10,600 ha o fpipedconveyance irrigationwere installed, less than the appraisal
target o f 14,350 habut significantly more than the revised target at mid-term review o f
8,500 ha, which accompanied the cancellation o fUS$5.5 million. The IEGmission
found that, subsequent to project closure, an additional 2000 ha o fpipedconveyance was
achieved, usingproceeds from the fundbuilt up under the project through provision o f
the PVC piping. The achievements o fboththe third and fourth objectives were
substantial. The project's last objective, to pilot approaches for watershed management
includingrehabilitation o f abandoned terraces, i s reported inthe ICR as havinghad good
participationby farmers but there i s no data on overall achievements inthe ICR and the
appraisal report hadno physicaltargets. Inthese circumstances, but given the reported
goodparticipationby farmers, efficacy i s ratedmodest.

27.     Muchmore difficult i s to go beyondphysical achievements to assess what the
development impact o fthe various pilots was. Some inferences can be drawn from
activities that have been continued. The Sana'a BasinWater Management Project
ISBWMP, FY03) i s implementinga number o f the land management activities piloted
underLWCP, butproject fieldactivities are still inearly implementation. Ofgreatest
interest i s the water saving innovation described above that LWCP introduced for
groundwater irrigation. This i s now being scaled up under the Groundwater and Soil
Conservation Project (GSCP, FY04), and as a major component inthe Sana'a Basin
project.

28.     The IEGmissiondiscussed with the project directors o fthese two projectshow
they felt their projects hadimprovedon LWCP's originaldesign. The mainnew features

                                                       8


 are: community management and community monitoringo fmember activities; tripartite
 agreementsbetweeneach farmer, the community organization andthe government
 agency; and a technical advisory service for irrigationmanagement. Inpart, this
 responds to one problemunder LWCP which was that not all farmers decreased
 groundwater abstraction, and instead expanded irrigated area. The percentage o f such
 farmers inthe project was assessedto be smallbut no data was available. Several more
years will beneededbefore the efficacy o fthese adjustments can be evaluated. However,
the adaptations provide a good example o f a process o f learning and adapting based on
 experience, and they are summarized at Annex F.

 29.     Taking the successful achievement o fmost o f LWCP's objectives, particularlyas
 concerns the two largest field components, and the influence that LWCP hashad on
design o frelevant follow-on projects, the overall efficacy o f LWCP i s rated Substantial.

 30.     EfficiencyofLWCP: (Rating: Modest). The actual costs o f all project
components except water resources institutional strengthening fell compared with
 appraisal estimates, but this would primarily have been due to the progressive fall inthe
value o fthe Yemeni rial. The costs o f institutional strengthening for the project's water
resourcesprogram increased from the appraisal estimate o fUS$5.6 millionto US$8.4
million at project completion. This represents 28 percent o f actual project costs, though
the missionwas informedthat part o fthis increase (amount not specified) was due to
additionaluse o f FA0 technical assistance. Training and consultancy were inaggregate
about the same as at appraisal, so the increased overheads appear very inefficient. The
re-estimated ERRo fLWCP at completion i s 15 percent when only the costs and benefits
o fthe watershed, groundwater and spate irrigationcomponents are included(some 68
percent o ftotal project costs). As at appraisal, ERRSfor other components were not
estimated. The reasons cited inthe ICR are that some components such as forestry have
externalities difficult to estimate. Ifthese other components are included as costs inthe
ERR,butwithout estimating their benefits, the ERR falls to 10percent compared withthe
opportunity cost o f capital inYemen o f 12percent. Given the benefits not quantified,
this ERRcalculationwouldbe a conservative estimate. Nevertheless, taking into account
the highcosts o fproject management, the efficiency o f LWCP i s ratedModest.

31.      Outcomeof LWCP: (Rating: Satisfactory). LWCPwas highlyrelevant inits
objectives to conserve groundwater and land resources, thus tackling Yemen's major
water sector issue. It largely achieved its objectives, though at highoverhead costs. The
upgraded rating from the ICR Review's moderately satisfactory i s because LWCP's
important impact on subsequent projects can now be taken into account.

32.      InstitutionalDevelopmentfor LWCP: (Rating: Modest). Training and
technical assistance were substantial (about one third o f project costs) and were key
factors enabling the project's achievements, as the majority o f activities were new to the
extension staff. Training was reportedly sound. The use o f a Project Management Unit
(PMU) and seven field-based Project ImplementationUnits(PIUs), with staff seconded
from the line agencies, was effe~tive.The IEGmissionwas informed that after closure
                                                ~


4. There are mixedviews on the utility of PMUs, bothinGovernment andthe Bank. One view i s that in
Yemen's still weak institutional capacity a P M U is essential to get projects implemented. Another view i s

                                                       9


 o f LWCP the bulk o f the secondedstaffwere re-absorbedby the Ministryo f Agriculture
 and Irrigation, while most o fthe PMUand P N staff continued their former LWCP
 support activities, financed from proceeds o f the cost recovery fund. The mission was
 also advised that, subsequently,when the Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project
 commenced, about 60 percent o f the former LWCP stafftransferred to GSCP. This i s
 better than anticipated at ICR stage, when a concern was that after project closure the low
 salary levels ingovernment would result insubstantial loss o ftrained staff. However, a
 permanent institutional structure has stillnot emerged, and IEG's "modest" institutional
 development ratinginthe ICRReview still appears appropriate.

 33.       Sustainabilityfor LWCP: (Rating: Likely). Inthe ICRReview, IEGreduced
 the ICR Sustainabilityratingfrom likely to unlikelybecause: (i) groundwater   the
 component was subsidized and dependent on government commitment to continue
 fundingthe programinatight budgetary situation; and(ii) depletion was  staff
 anticipated after project closure. The mission found improvement since then. First,
 government commitment to the groundwater programpioneeredby LWCP i s strongly
 evidenced bypreparation and commencement o ftwo succesor projects since LWCP
 closure inFYO1: SBWMP (FY03) and GSCP (FY04). For each o fthese two projects,
 the LWCP's advanced irrigationpackage is a primary component. Thus, sustained
 Government commitment and funding now appears more likely. Also, O&M i s entirely
 fundedby the farmers. Second, the substantial continuation o f LWCP staff under the
 GSCP, enables more sustained technical support to the program than hadbeenanticipated
 at project closure. Giventhese developments, the sustainability ratingfor LWCP is
 raised to Likely. Nevertheless, going beyondLWCP to the longer term programbeing
 initiated under SBWMP and GSCP, ultimate selfreliance would bebetter assuredif
 advanced irrigation systems didnot dependon Government subsidies. Unsubsidized
pricing would also provide more scope for the private sector to engage inprovision and
 servicing o f equipment.

 34.       Bank andBorrower Performancefor LWCP: (Ratings: both Satisfactory).
Bank preparation was overly ambitious inits many components andpolicy features.
LWCP was really two projects: waterhigation and forestry/land management.
Combiningthese two ecologically linked, but physically and institutionallydifferent
activities complicated implementation. Adding to this difficulty, the forestry component
contained a large number o f sub-components. Nevertheless, the detail inthe preparation
helpedto counteract this and the project's physical activities were largely achieved.
Supervision was satisfactory initially and highly satisfactory inthe final years.
Government personnel worked hardto implement the project, a task that was not easy
given the project's multiplecomponents, wide geographic coverage and external
 disruption^.^ Goodproject management and use o f internationally recruited technical
assistance inthe project's later stages enhanced the project achievement. The Bank


that PMUs, ifthey are outside the organic structure o f government, are only temporary bodies, hence with
little sustainable impact. These options will not be evaluated here.

5. Unification o fNorthand South Yemen occurred in 1990, just before the project. Duringthe project, the
1990191GulfWar affected Government and the economy, and the Civil War in 1994brought most
development activities to a halt (Allthese events were over by commencement o f the Sana'a and Taiz
projects).

                                                              10


 adapted the project inline with changing circumstances. This included the sensible
 reduction o f physical targets early inthe project and again at mid-term review. Overall,
 Bank and borrower performances were Satisfactory. Similar ratings were made inthe
 ICR andICRReview.

 THETAIZ WATERSUPPLY PILOT PROJECT

 Table 2: DevelopmentObjectivesandOutcomefor Taiz WSPP
 Development Objectives                                                    Relevance    Efficacy      Efficiency
 Mitigate the immediate water shortage in Taiz (by increasingsupply by     Modest       Modest
 about 100%)
 Identify new water sources to avert a sustained water shortage crisis (to Modest       Substantial
 meet the needs of at least the year 2000 or about 550 liters per second)
 Developand test a process and institutional framework for                 High         Negligible
 decentralized water resources management (through the establishment
 of local community associations)
 Promote private sector participation in the management of water and       Negligible   Negligible
 wastewater utility services (by entering into a management contract in
 the second phase of the Taiz Water Supply Project)
               Outcome: Unsatisfactory                                     Modest      Negligible     Modest


 35.       Relevanceof TaizWSPP: (Rating: Modest).Taiz WSPP hadno features
 responding to either the WRM or corporate agendas and inthese respects relevance
 would be negligible. However, account needs to be taken o f the primary objective o f
 Taiz WSPP to respondto Taiz's critical water shortages on an emergency basis. The
 social and health impacts, especially for the poor, were known. Thus, relative to the
 water shortage and social and poverty reduction needs, also referred to inthe Bank's
 strategy papers, Taiz's first objective - to enhance water supply and sewerage -was
highlyrelevant, counteractingthe project's negligible relevance for WRM andcorporate
management reform. Taken together, overall relevance was modest. The project's
 second objective - to identify new water resources (ie. well sites) - was purely a supply
 side (exploitation) approach andwithout including a WRM focus; relevance was modest.

36.        Taiz WSPP's third objective was to develop a rural-urban water transfer system
with compensation to farmers. While designfeatures hadmajor flaws, this first attempt
inYemen to movetowards a water market was highly relevant as an objective. With
urban population growth at some seven percent a year, water transfers to the towns will
be increasingly essential. The last objective was to prepare for private sector
participation. Institutionally, Taiz was not then at all ready for PSP, and preparing for
such might have diverted attention from the already difficult water supply objective. The
relevance o fPSP for Taiz at that time was negligible.

37.        Efficacyof Taiz WSPP: (Rating: Negligible). The project's first andmain
objective - to quickly increase the city's water supply - fell well short o f the targeted
increase. An increased supply o f only about 40 liters per second was achieved. This is
less than one-third o f the targeted increase o f 140 liters per second (l/s); no more than a
(very) modest achievement.

38.       Some progress was made on the project's second objective: to identify additional
water resources. The specific target o f finding an additional 250 liters per second was not

                                                        11


 met; only an additional 36 l/s was found. However, the numberofobservationwells
 nearly achieved appraisal targets, andthese wells, and other infrastructure and equipment
 fundedunder the project, upgradedTaiz NWRA's capacity. Concerning the target, it was
 not possible at appraisal to predict available water, so the target was meaningless, and
 should not have beenput inquantity terms inthe first place. Giventhe capacity upgrade,
 which the IEGmission found hadcontinued after the project, the efficacy o fthe project's
 second objective i s ratedsubstantial.

 39.      Taiz WSPP's thirdobjective, which involvedprovisionto rural communities o f a
 package o f investments in"compensation" for the abstraction o f groundwater under their
 land, was competently implementedand much o f the infrastructure i s still functional; for
 instance, the mission found that 10out o f the 12 rural water supply and sanitation
 schemes are beingwell operated andmaintained by the rural community. However, what
 ultimately matters i s sustainable livelihoods, but these were adversely affected by the
 loweringo f the groundwater table and its impact on irrigation. A one time infrastructure
 investmentonly partially achieves sustainable incomes. Accounts o fthe unrest during
 installation o f the well-fields and the continuing dissatisfaction o fthe rural communities,
 which was confirmed duringthe mission's visit to Taiz, indicatethat the compensation
 objectives were not achieved.6 Thus, while the relevance o f a rural-urbanwater transfer
 mechanism i s high, the efficacy o f the Taiz WSPP attempt was negligible. Inthis
 connection, IEGstrongly disagreeswith the ICR's assessment. Page 12 o f the ICR
 comments: "Theproject did bring substantial benefits to both the ruralpopulation of A1
Haima and Habir (at the well-fields) and ......" This was far from the case.
Additionally, a view commonly encountered by the missionwas that the Taiz failure had
 actually set back the prospects for developing formal water markets as both government
and the ruralpopulationnow distrust any such initiative.

40.      Taiz WSPP's last objective was to promoteprivate sector participation. The first
drafts o f the studyincludedinthe project to assess private sector participation
possibilitieswere inadequate, and at the Bank's request the studywas dropped. Efficacy
was negligible.

41.      Efficiency of Tab WSPP: (Rating: Modest). Actual project costs o f Taiz
WSPP were about the same level as appraisal estimates, except for the costs o fthe water
sources component which were lower than appraisal estimates. A significant chance for
increasing water provisionto the city simplyby replacing a leakingpipe (para 50) was
not seen at appraisal but was later implementedduringproject execution. The ICR
estimates a 20% ERR for the project's main component, city water supply. The
calculationuses the reduced quantities o fwater actually supplied, the primary factor
which reduced the appraisal estimated ERR o f 55 percent. However, as with the
appraisal estimate, the ICR's estimated ERR i s sensitive to the assessed economic value
o fpipedwater, assumedinthe ICRto be halfthe price paid to water vendors selling
water transported bytanker trucks. The basis for this assumption i s not provided, casting


6. To this day, the concerned villagers are reported to be highlydissatisfied with the reduced groundwater
table. Also, from reports at the time of installing the well and conveyance infrastructure, there were cases
ofrehsalto allow construction, and the army had to be called inat one stage. Only through the persuasion
of the Governors o fthe two Governorates and extensive other dialogue was construction able to proceed.

                                                12


 some doubt on the usefulness o f the project's estimated ERR. Thus, cost-effectiveness
 may be a better indicator o f efficiency. As actual water delivery was less than one-third
 o f appraisal estimates, but investmentcosts were the same, efficiency i s ratedmodest.

 42.     OutcomeofTaiz WSPP: (Rating: Unsatisfactory). Taiz WSPP was highly
 relevant inresponding to Taiz city's water crisis, and inthe attempt to provide
 compensation to farmers. But, without WRM measures, relevance i s reduced.
 Achievement o f objectives fell well short o f targets, and without a commensurate
 reductionincosts. The ICR and ICR Review also rated outcome as unsatisfactory.

 43.     InstitutionalDevelopmentfor Taiz WSPP: (Rating: Modest). Taiz WSPP's
 arrangements for coordinationbetweeninstitutions were weak. There were, effectively,
 three separate sub-projects under different agencies, eachwith a separate special account
 andproject management unit and each operating largely independently o fthe others. The
 National Water and Sanitation Authority (NWSA) handled the engineeringworks, the
 National Water Resources Authority (NWRA) handledgroundwater studies, and the
 Southern Uplands RuralDevelopment Unit (SURDU)was incharge o fthe rural
 community's compensation package. Implementingthe project through the relevant line
 agencies rather than creating new entities was sound. However, NWSA, which was
intendedto play the coordinationrole, was ineffective, and a multi agency project
 steering committee met only twice.

44.      Nevertheless, the IEGmission found that all three o f the agencies involvedwere
strengthened, but to varying degree. For NWSA and SURDU, the primary benefit was in
the strengtheningo f staff capabilities through working with the project's consultants.
The majority o f the project's NWSA staffwere subsequentlyreabsorbed into the Taiz
WSS corporation. SURDUwas abolished after the project, anationalrather than project
level decision. However, the missionwas advised that most o f the SURDUstaffwere
also absorbed into the agencies appropriate to their specialization, mostly to the Ministry
o f Agriculture and Irrigation. A particularbenefit was the participatory approachesthe
SURDUpersonnel learnt undertheproject, which were largelyunfamiliar to the ministry.

45.      NWRA Taiz was the agency most strengthened. Ithadonly been established one
year before the project and had difficulties initially due to excessive control by its central
office. It also had difficulty getting its advice on its resources analysis taken into
consideration bythe overly supplyoriented NWSA. This hasprogressively improved,
though the missionobserved that the Taiz water corporation(formerly NWSA's Taiz
branch) stillneededto more systematically take NWRA advice into its decision making.
The staff o fNWRA's Taiz branchparticipatedwith the consultants ongroundwater
monitoring, and with NWRA central inpreparing a Taiz water management plan. This
helpedthe Taiz branchstaffto gain experience andcapacity. The mission's visit to
NWRA Taiz found that ithadclear capabilities ingroundwater hydrology and other
WRM activities. NWRA Taiz has continuedas a functionalbody after the project, and
activities have expanded; for instance, inestablishing additional groundwater observation
wells. Taking the capacity development o fall three institutions into account, especially
NWRA, the further capacity improvements after the project, andthe greater retention
than expected after the project o f staff from all three agencies (the ICR expected

                                                      13


  substantial attrition), InstitutionalDevelopment for Taiz WSPP is ratedModest, an
  increase from the assessment o f negligible at ICRReview.

  46.       Sustainabilityfor Taiz WSPP: (Rating: Unlikely). The IEGmissionwas
  shown data for the last several years indicatingthat at the reducedpumpingrate from
 project facilities o f 40 liters per second (planned was 140 l/s), the aquifer i s not being
 drawn down further. Thus, unlike Sana'a, which has beenpumpingbeyond sustainable
 yield, continued water supply for the Taiz project investments is more likely. The
  strengthened Taiz NWRA has also prepared a water planand has increased the number o f
 observation wells for water monitoring, demonstrating some seriousness now in
 groundwater management. Project infrastructure examined bythe missionwas ingood
 order. Also, one pump hadbeenreplaced, and government/corporation funds hadbeen
 usedto purchase anew one, indicatingcommitment to continue to maintain anduse the
 facilities. Taiz's water supply and sanitation corporation, formed inFebruary2001, near
 the endo fthe project period, has grown instrength. The mission's examinationofthe
 2003 audited accounts for the corporationshow a positivecurrent revenuedcosts ratio.
 These are very positive developments, andprospects for sustaining the project
 achievements have clearly improvedsince project closure. However, adjusting the ICR
 Reviewratingto likelywould bepremature as Taiz's progress would best be observed
 over several more years. The Unlikely rating at ICRreview i s thus retained.

 47.       Bank Performancefor Taiz WSPP at Project Preparation: (Rating: Highly
 Unsatisfactory). Taiz WSPP's design was poor, reflectingthe haste with which this
 emergency project was prepared. The rushed preparation ofthe project -infour months
 from appraisal to Board andwithout any preparation missions - while with the best o f
 intentions, contributed inTaiz's case to serious shortcoming^.^ Inparticular, these were:
 (i) substantialshortfallinwaterdeliveryduetoassumptionsonwateravailability
       the
 without the neededhydrological investigations; (ii)           the poorly conceived andinadequate
 compensation package for the rural communities affected by the project; and (iii)                the
 complicated institutionaldesign resultingincoordinationproblems between the
 implementing agencies.

 48.      A numbero f additionalobservations canbemade. First, the means to quickly
 enhance water availability might be questioned. Demandmanagement interventions
were not considered even though water losseswere high. Unaccountedfor water was
nearly 50% and reducing this might have offered a larger and quicker payoff, Also, the
verybeneficialchange inthe infrastructure component made duringsupervision - to
replace the corroded and leaking A1Hayma-Taiz conveyance pipe, providing an
additional 20% o fwater through reduced leakage - was an optionmissedat appraisal.
Second, the possibility for a formal water market approach to rural-urbanwater transfer,
which could enable continuous benefits to rural communities for provision o fpart o ftheir


7. I t might, however, be commented that emergency projects are not necessarily lower performers than
non-emergency projects. For Taiz WSPP, specific measures inproject design mighthave been considered.
For instance, flexibility could have beenin-builtto significantly adjust the project duringimplementation.
Water availability and the compensationpackage could have been reassessedbefore or very early inproject
implementation, Flexible funding for examining and including demand side measures during
implementation might also have been considered.

                                                      14


 water, could have been considered.* The "compensation" model chosen at project design
 had little chance o f success. Third, there were several activities inthe project which had
 low relevance to the emergency water supply objective. For instance, the PSP study and
 the Hadramawt study (inanother region) were worthy, but including such extra activities
 detracted from the main objective. A simple design, focused exclusively on Taiz's water
 crisis, mighthave enabled the water supply component to bebetterprepared. Finally,
 there were a number o funrealistic assumptions on the timing o fproject activities. For
 instance, an assurancewas obtained from Government that NWSA would prepare
management contract documents for private sector participationfor its Taiz branch by
 end January 1997, and issue an ICB announcement by end March 1997. Project approval
was, respectively, only 4 and 5 months earlier than these dates.

49.       BankPerformancefor TaizWSPP duringImplementation: (Rating:
 Satisfactory). Supervision tried to retrofit actions to resolvethese problems, butthe
 original design made this difficult. Supervision was thorough, and included many more
visits to Taiz than conveyed inthe recordo f official supervision missions. Task
management from Yemenwas effective. The task team introduced a number o f good
adaptations from the original design, andmore focus onparticipatory approaches,
institutionalandmanagement areas, and water resources management. The independent
MidTermReviewmissionconcludedthat the projectwas well supervised, a view that
IEGconfirms. However, one importantomissionwas that a formal restructuring o fthe
project including its DevelopmentObjectives was not undertaken, even thoughthe
project was infact substantially revised. IEGassesses projects based on the original
DOs, unless revisedduringimplementation, when both the original andrevised
objectives are taken into account The lack o f revisionmakes a more favorable
assessment o f the project difficult. Giventhe overall supervision performance, a
satisfactory assessment for implementationi s appropriate. However, taken with the
highlyunsatisfactory project design, overallBank performance is assessedas
Unsatisfactory. This rating i s the same as inthe ICRReview which downgraded the
ICR's assessment o f satisfactory.

50.      Borrower Performancefor Taiz WSPP: (Rating: Unsatisfactory). Project
preparation by Government and the implementingagencies shared a numbero fthe
problems noted above for the Bank assessment. Inimplementation, counterpart funding
was sometimes delayed, there were coordinationproblems betweenthe three agencies,
and initial lack o f clarity on the compensation arrangements. Nevertheless, achievements
were made and performance improvedduringimplementation. Further, the continued
institutional developments after project closure are encouraging. However, taken with
the weak preparation performance, borrower performancei s ratedas (marginally)
unsatisfactory, the same as inthe ICRReview, which was a downgrade o f the ICR's
satisfactory assessment.



8. Preparationtime would have neededto be substantial, as water markets require carefbl and location
specific preparation, including extensive dialogue between all parties concerned. Ifwell designed, they can
provide win-win situations where rural communities get fees significantly higher than the value o ftheir
water inirrigation, and the urbanutilitycan buy or seasonally rent water at prices below consumer
willingness to pay.

                                                                15


 THESANA'A WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATION PROJECT

 Table 3: Development Objectives and Outcome for Sana'a WSSP
 Development Objectives                                                   Relevance    Efficacy     Efficiency
 Address emergency sewer installation and water network rehabilitation    Substantial  Substantial
 needs in Sana'a
 Increase the availability of urgently needed potable water in the city   Negligible   Substantial
 Improve the efficiency of water and wastewater services in the city in a High         High
 physically and financially sustainable manner
 Prepare the sector for significant private sector participation          Modest       Substantial
        Outcome: ModeratelySatisfactory                                   Modest       Substantial  Substantial


 -51. enhance sewerage and water networks - was substantially relevant inrespondingto
           Relevance of Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: Modest). Sana'a WSSP's first objective
   to
 Sana'a's water shortage as it would improve services and water conveyance efficiency,
hence enabling water savings. The second objective, to increase water supply through
 further groundwater exploitation, was relevant inits water supply objectives, but as it
contained no attempt to better manage groundwater resources, meaning that the project
actions would inevitably deplete the water resources, the objective is rated negligible.
The third objective to improve the efficiency o f water services is rated highly relevant as
it directly supported the corporate improvement agenda for the Sana'a water agency and
was a pioneer for reforms inother water agencies (refer below). The final objective was
to prepare for private sector participation. The objective was very relevant for the longer
term, butproved unrealistic inthe short term. The corporation hadnot yet gained a level
o f financial and technical capacity to attract potential private sector partners (para 60).
Thus, the relevance o fPSP at that time was Modest.

52.       Taking account o f the contrastingrelevancies o f Sana'a WSSP's objectives,
overall relevance was Modest, a balance between extremes inthe evaluations above.
Some features inthe opposite polarities o f Sana'a WSSP's relevance - excellence inthe
corporate reform agenda but minimal inwater resources management are highlighted         -
below:

0    The Pioneering o f Water Agency Reform: Sana'a WSSP was prepared inthe 1997-
     99 period, based on close dialogue between Government and the Bank. InApril
     2000, Government converted the Sana'a branch o fN W S A into a corporation: the
     Sana'a Local Water Supply and Sanitation Services Corporation (SLWSSC). This
    was followed by others: inAugust o f the same year Aden N W S A branch was
     corporatized, followedby Hodeidah inJanuary 2001, and subsequently by most o f the
     other major cities inYemen. The IEGmission found that a common view within
    government was that Sana'a hadhelped pave the way intwo respects: first, as an
    example to politicians that corporatization could be done; and, secondly, as a model
    to help practical implementation. The Sana'a WSSP dialogue and funds also
    supported preparation o f the subsequent Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project
    Adjustable Program Loan (FY03), which further develops the new corporate
    management approach, covering additional cities.

0   The Neglect of Groundwater Depletion. Neither Sana'a WSSP nor Taiz WSPP
    contained objectives that would have contributed to improved groundwater

                                               16


    management. Instead, the two projects followed the typical UWSS approach in
    Yemen o f exploiting additional water supplythrough new tube-wells. Abstraction
    would continue untilthe aquifer was depleted, after which new well-fields would be
    found for similar unsustainable exploitation, thus ignoring Yemen's overarching
    water sector issue. For Taiz, this gap i s partlyunderstandable given the project's
    emergency nature, but Sana'a WSSP could have done more.

 53.    Several observations regarding Sana'a WSSP's neglect o f groundwater
 management are o f interest. The project tackled unaccounted for water, sewerage, and
 cess-pools. These actions were all appropriate, but the major strategic issue was not
 tackled. Meanwhile, wells inand around Sana'a were runningdry, with pumpinggoing
 well beyond sustainable yield. The Sana'a WSSP appraisal report mentionedan
 environmental assessment, which was also summarized inan annex. Three "major"
 environmental issues were discussed, but not groundwater management possibilities.
 Thus, IEGdisagreeswith the assertionsinboththe appraisal report and the ICRthat
 Sana'a WSSP was consistent with CAS objectives. Boththe 1996 and 2002 CAS' refer
 to water sustainability as their key objective, and thus relevancy must be substantially
measured against this.

 54.    Some observers have mentionedother agencies or projects that they consider to
beresponsible for taking care o fthe groundwater problem; for instance, NWRA, which,
however, i s a resource assessment entity andnot an implementing agency. Under
Government regulations, groundwater management i s NWRA's mandate; butNWRA has
no resources to do this. This i s a case where resolutionwith government on changing the
responsibility for Sana'a groundwater management to the Sana'a corporationwould have
been apossible solution. Leavingresponsibility for groundwater management to,
effectively, no agency, was not a solution. Reference might also be made to the Sana'a
BasinWater Management Project which commencedjust after Sana'a WSSP ended.
SBWMP i s indeed specifically targeted to the betterwater management o fthe Sana'a
basin, but it does not have the purpose, or capacity, to redress major environmental
problems specifically causedby other agencies, especially on the scale causedby Sana'a.
The better approach i s for each water programimplementer to deal directly with the
environmental problems that it i s causing.

55.     Efficacy of Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: Substantial). Three o f Sana'a WSSP's
components addressedthe first two objectives o f Sana'a WSSP; investment insewerage,
water networks and water supply. These physical objectives were on balance achieved,
thoughwith unevenimplementation between components. Water connections (5000
versus 18,000 planned) were significantly below target, butthe larger sewerage
component connected 33 percent more households compared with the planned23 percent
increase. The IEGmission's visit to the areawhere sewerage hadbeen installed. -
M a m a - showed very satisfactory achievement, and highlysatisfied residents.
Photographs examined showed that, beforehand, the streets hadbeenopen sewers. On
other project components, demolition o f cesspools was approximately on target: 3000
compared with 3100planned at appraisal. As concerns the thirdlarge component, water
supply, additionalwater from the project wells was 33% o fthe city's former total supply,
compared with an appraisal target o f 20 percent. Duringthe project period a numbero f
older wells hadto be shut down due to either collapse o fthe aquifer or the need for major

                                              17


maintenance. The net result was an increase inSana'a's water supply o f only 13 percent,
though the project infrastructure was not responsible for the resource depletion from
other infrastructure. There was, nevertheless, some gain: pipedwater became available
every four days, as opposed to the pre-project situationofonce aweek.

56.      Onwater distribution, the ICR foundthat government statistics showed an
increase inunaccounted for water (UFW). However, examination by the IEGmission
suggeststhat the most probable cause was a faulty initial estimate due to there being
virtually no meters before the project. The project works would have reduced UFW,
though it i s not possible to gauge by how much. Considering the overall achievements o f
these three components, efficacy was substantialfor the projects first two objectives.

57.     Sana'a WSSP's third objective was to improve the efficiency o fwater and
wastewater services. This was achieved on both financial and technical indicators, and
the mission found a further improvement since project closure inSana'a corporation's
financial situation. The numbero fwater and sewage connections had also grown since
closure. The Sana'a corporation's contribution to corporate reform elsewhere i s an
important achievement not anticipated at appraisal, and also not notedinthe ICR. The
Efficacy o f the third objectivewas high.

58.     Private Sector Participation: Sana'a WSSP's last objective -preparation for
private sector participation-was a more realistic goal than inthe case o f Taiz, due to the
greater capacity and hence attractiveness o fthe Sana'a water corporation. Nevertheless,
the privatizationgoalproved elusive. The project's objective ofpreparingfor PSPwas
achieved, but tendering under the follow-on UWSS-APLwas not successful. A lease
contract was aimed for, and to this effect, invitations were launched in2002, but no offers
were received. Inretrospect, aiming for any form o fprivate sector participationbeyonda
management contract was probably not realistic inYemen at that time. The Sana'a
corporation's unsuccessful first PSP attempt ledto re-thinking o fthe approach to PSP
and a management contract was then aimed for. This i s still the objective buthas not yet
beenachieved, althoughinthe mission's meetingwith the Sana'a corporation, there was
a view that, with its further improved financial situation, the corporationmay now be
ready for PSP interest. This would be a landmark as there i s still no PSP inYemen's
UWSS sector. Nevertheless, the Sana'a WSSP's privatization efforts, continued under
the UWSSP-APL, have hadpositiveimpact. Sana'a corporationhas gained experience
inpreparation for private sectorinterest, andtheproject's objectivetoprepare for PSP
can thus be considered to have hadsubstantial efficacy.

59.    Efficiency of Sana'a WSSP (Rating: Substantial). The physicalachievements
o f Sana'a WSSP were on balance at appraisal targets, while costs were below appraisal
estimates. The ICR's estimated ERRSwere 32 percent for the city water network, 27
percent for additional water supply and 25 percent for sewerage. These three components
made up 71 percent o f project costs. The analysis methodology i s the same as inthe
appraisal report and appears sound.

60.    Outcome of Sana'a WSSP (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory). Sana'a WSSP
was highlyrelevant incorporate management aspects, but not ingroundwater
management. Balancing these, with greater weight givento the relevance o f groundwater

                                                        18


 management compared to corporate achievements, overall relevance was modest.
 However, Sana'a WSSP largely achieved its objectives and implemented well. Overall,
 the outcome o f Sana'a WSSP i s ratedModerately Satisfactory, the same as inthe ICR
 Review.

 61.      Institutional Developmentfor Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: High). NWSA's
 Sana'a branchbecame a corporation duringthe project, a significant step that required
 considerable preparation; legally, financially and administratively. The technical and
 financial capacity o f the Sana'a Local Water Supplyand Sanitation Corporation
 (SLWSSC) was progressively strengthened. Bythe endo f the project, the corporation's
 current revenues could cover O&M and administrative costs. In2004, the year after
 project closure, water sales, water connections and sewerage connections all increased
 further, and additional increases are projectedfor 2005. The PSP objective was an
 ambitious expectation giventhe stage o f development o f SLWSSC at that time.
 Nevertheless, the preparation for possible PSP served to focus management attention on
 key improvement areas. Giventhe significantly improved financial situation and
 performance o f SLWSSC, InstitutionalDevelopment i s ratedHigh, a large increase from
 the assessment o fmodest at ICR and ICR Review. The upgradingi s due to the continued
 improvements inthe corporation's efficiency since project closure andbecauseo f the
 IEGmission's additionalassessmento ftheproject's importantrole inthe formation and
 institutionalstrengtheningo fwater corporations inother cities.

 62.     Sustainabilityfor Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: Unlikely). The Sana'a Local Water
 Supplyand Sanitation Corporationcouldbe considered sustainable inthat it has achieved
 financial viability and a measure o ftechnical and managerial competency, andthat these
 aspectshave further strengthened since project closure. This improvement represents
 goodperformance incorporate agenda aspects.' Whereas the ICR assessedthe
 corporation's sustainability as unlikely, IEGnow considers this to be likely. However,
 Sana'a WSSP's groundwater availability i s not sustainable under current practices. The
 corporation informed the missionthat abstraction o f groundwater inand around Sana'a
was 1.5 times recharge, and the water table was declining at about 6 meters per annum.
The wells now beingdrilledby SLWSSC are going to depths o fover 200 meters.
Increasedwater supply from additional water miningi s substantially counteracted by
other wells going dry. Sustainability i s rated Unlikely, as inthe ICR and ICRReview,
butnow due to the WRM sustainability issue rather than due to corporate management
concerns.

63.      Borrower Performance for Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: Satisfactory). At the
beginningofpreparation it took about a year for government to embrace areformist
approach to sector management, but thereafter Government actively promotedthe project
and was a strong partner inpreparation,. It was subsequently an active implementer o f
the project promoting significant institutional changes. The transition to a corporation
and the tariff increaseswere politically difficult but were nevertheless implemented, and
the corporation's management was progressivelyimproved. While Yemenneglected


9. Under the UWSSP-APL, SWSLC will receive continued support, withthe objective o f fixther improving
the corporation's efficiency, and the aim also o f attracting private sector participation. There are, thus,
good prospects that the corporation will fbrther strengthen.

                                                19


 water resources management, borrower performance may (just)be maintainedat the
 Satisfactory levelbecauseo f the additional factor that politically difficult actions were
 undertaken. The ICR and ICRReview also ratedborrower performance satisfactory.

 64.     Bank Performancefor Sana'a WSSP: (Rating: Unsatisfactory). Project
 preparation helped sustain the Bank's increasedpolicy dialogue with Government. The
 appraisal report i s a thorough document, and strong incorporate management aspects.
 The detail indicates the care withwhich theproject was prepared. Implementation
 readinesswas good: When implementationbegan (Effectiveness), three out o fthe four
 civil works contracts hadbeenawarded. Supervision was also good, and Sana'a office
 staff, with their close contact with the borrower, further strengthened supervision.
 Clearly, Bank performance was very good inpromoting the corporate agenda. However,
 groundwater management -Yemen's most important water sector need - was ignored.
 Thus, inWRM aspectsBank performancewas highlyunsatisfactory, particularly given
 the extensive advice that hadbeenprovidedinthe past (refer below andto Annex E).
 Hence, notwithstanding Sana'a WSSP's very good corporate management aspects,
 overall Bank performance i s reduced to an Unsatisfactory rating. This i s a downgrading
 o fthe satisfactory rating at ICR and ICR Review, due to the greater emphasis that the
 Bank's current strategy places on Yemen's primary water issue.

 THELIMITEDLEARNING THE BANK BY

 65.     The inattention o f Sana'a WSSP and earlier projects to Yemen's groundwater
 depletion issue raises an additional concern inthat, as described inAnnex E, learningwas
 very limitedover a longperiod. The first Sana'a water project was approved inFY74.
 The groundwater issue was knownthen and is mentionedinthe appraisal report. There
 hadbeena chain o f operational experience and IEGobservations on the WRM needs for
 Yemen's UWSSprojects since then. LWCP hadalso preceded Sana'a WSSP, andthis
 contained substantial discussion on WRM. Yet, untilLWCP - the Bank's lgthwater
 sector project inYemen and nearly 20 years after the first project - there hadbeenno
 significant attempt inBank projects to address groundwater management. Unfortunately,
 Sana'a WSSP, approved by the Board seven years after approval o f LWCP, continued
 this omission.



  5. Lessons

 66.     Sana'a WSSP's success inhelpingto pioneer the establishment o f water sector
 corporations and to improve corporate management was an important contributioninthe
urbanwater sector. However, the main lessons from assessingthe three projects relate to
water resources management. The issues underlying the four lessons below have
substantially contributed to the lacuna regarding groundwater management, and to the
lack o f attention to other related institutional and policy needs. They may also have
relevance to other countries with similar gaps. The lessons relate to: a lack of
prioritization, a lack of sector work, a lack of cross-sectoral coordination, and a lack of
forward planning:

                                                         20


 Lesson1: Identifyingandtacklingthe dominant issue(s)is keyto a program's
 relevanceandoutcome

 67.      There is needto identify andprioritize the issue or issues that really matter: in
 Yemen's case, the groundwater depletionissue. It took the Bank nearly 20 years and 20
 projects to start to tackle groundwater depletion. Hadgroundwater depletion been
 prioritized earlier, Yemenwould be inmuchbetter positionthan it i s today. Tackling
 groundwater depletionhasbecome increasinglydifficult over time: the technical
 problems are greater with deeper water tables; the number o f agriculturaltube-wells has
 mushroomed, the habits andperceived acquired rightso f farmers havebecome
 entrenched; and urbandemand has expanded rapidly. Mitigatingthe problem would not
 have been easy even20 years ago, but the complexities and costs o fmitigationtoday are
 likely to be vastly greater. For both the Bank and Government, a clear andurgent need i s
 to integrate groundwater resourcesmanagement into project design inall water sectors,
 whether they beprojects for rural, urban, power, industry or other sectors.
 Lesson2. A comprehensivestrategy is essential

 68.      A strategic analysis andprogram approachwas largelyabsent inYemen's water
 sector for the first 25 years o fthe Bank's involvement. The largelynon-responsive
 succession o fprojects was the result. Ifa comprehensive strategy hadbeendeveloped
 earlier, the groundwater issue would likely have receivedattention earlier. The corporate
 management agenda, only effectivelyintroducedunder the Sana'a WSSP, might also
 have beenpromoted inearlier projects. The Bank's water programinother aspectsmight
 also have beenmore relevant: ininstitutionalchange, pricingpolicy, legislation,
 regulation and other water related aspects o fYemen's economy and socio-political
 structure.
Lesson3: Multi-sectoralapproachesandbetter coordinationare needed

69.      Inthe caseofYementhiswas largelyabsent. A great improvementwas made in
2003 when a Ministryo f Water and Environment was created andmost water agencies
were transferred to be under this ministry. However, irrigation, the largest user o fwater,
remains under the Ministry o fAgriculture and Irrigation. Inthe Bank, rural and urban
water are typically indifferent departments. Such arrangements can bemanageable if
good inter-linkages exist, but this was not the case inYemen. Irrigationhas tended to be
seen by agricultural agencies as an input to farming, without broader perspective o fthe
needs o f other sectors, while urbanwater agencies have tendedto treat water as a
resource to be exploited, with little consideration o f sustainability. Such dichotomies are
still ongoing. Sana'a water corporation focuses on water abstraction without
consideration for management o f the water resources, while the Sana'a BasinWater
Management Projecttries to find ways to conserve and replenishwater."



10.Just as multi-sector approaches needto be appliedto water management, water also enters into similar
multi-dimensional needs for other issues. For instance, the cultivation and consumption o f Qat is now a
large part o f agricultural area and is significantly usedby adults, especially men. Amongst poorer
households Qat can consume a large part o f family income, limitingother expenditures such as on food,
clothing and schooling. Qat, with consumption typically starting inthe early afternoon, has also been cited
as contributing to lower working hours. Resolving such issues would likely involve multi-sector actions

                                                       21


 Lesson 4: Rural-urban water markets needto be developed

 70.      Expandingurban demand will increasingly needrural-urbantransfer o fwater
 through an equitable mechanism. Formalwater markets have not yet beendeveloped in
 Yemen." One adaptation from the usual modelmaybeto use andhelpexpandthe
 already thriving informal water markets o fprivate truckers (such vendors provide 60
 percent o f Sana'a's water). Key adjustment needs would include establishing water
 rights and a regulatory systemto limit water abstraction to sustainable yield, perhaps
 largely self-monitored andregulatedbyrural communities. Looking ahead, piloting of
 practical options should beginnow.

 6.       TheWay Forward

 71.      While it has taken an extraordinarylengtho ftime for the Bank andYemen to
 beginreorientingapproachesto better tackle the strategic needs o fYemen's water sector,
 a major move forward has occurred over the last several years. Early elements o f change
 are found inthe three projects themselves: LWCP pilotingrural groundwater
 conservation, Sana'a WSSP beginningmore fundamental institutionalreforms inthe
 urban sector, and Taiz WSPP providing a first and learningexperience inattempting
 compensation for rural-urbanwater transfer. InFY98, the first significant Bank report on
 Yemen's water sector was produced; entitled "Towards a Water Strategy." The major
 changes, however, have been since 2000.

 72.      Bank and Government strategy work significantly expanded after 2000, in
particular over the last two years, andresulted insector strategy papers issued in2005 by
both Government and the Bank. These are the first comprehensive strategies produced
for Yemen's water sector, and they broadlyharmonizeindiscussion o f issues and
strategy. The new strategy i s beginningto be mirroredinthe new projects. The two
most recent water sector projects: the Sana'a BasinWater Management Project (FY03)
and the Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project (FY04) are both focused on the water
resources management agenda. The UrbanWater Supply and Sanitation APL (FY03) i s
promoting the urbancorporate reform agenda, and ifcoupled with a greater WRM focus,
can make a major difference inthe urbansector. The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project (FY02) promotes water conservation as well as ruralwater services. Another
positiveinitiative i s that a cross-sectoral water team hasbeen establishedbetweenthe
rural and urbanunits o f the MENA region.




including insocial outreach, education, regulation, prices and incentives, agriculture, irrigation and other
interventions.
11. Typically, such formal water markets would bebased onestablishing "win-win" situations for both
rural and urbancommunities (i.e. prices for farmers greater than the value o f water for its highest irrigation
usage, and prices for urbanconsumers lower than the water utility's prices). Such markets would need
other accompanying features such as regulation o f water extraction and quality, features to protect social
welfare, and, probably, community self monitoring and management. Development experience indicates
that water markets need careful, practical and highlyparticipatorypreparation, specifically designed to the
particular needs and culture o f the country and locality concerned.

                                                   22


73.      The new directions are increasinglyencompassing the first three major lessons:
(i) keyissue-groundwaterdepletion hasbeenputatthecenterofactivity; (ii)
     the                                          -                                                  the
programnow has an articulated strategy; and, (iii)          a more multi-sectoral approach i s
emerging, thoughthis isnot yet strongly evidentinaction. The performance o fthe new
generation o fprojects has yet to be demonstrated. As they are innovative, they are also
risky(several ofthese projects are currentlyhavingstart-up problems                     Butintheir
conceptual directions, they are muchmore relevant than the supply side and
infrastructure dominatedprojects o fthe past.

74.      A core need, however, will beto implementthe new strategy. Beyondindividual
projects, broad and often difficult sector changes will be needed; likely inpolicies,
legislation, regulation, pricing, institutions and other measures. Carrying out the strategy
i s now the challenge.

75.     "The Way Forward" is the cover title for Government's new strategy paper,
NWSSIP, andmay be an apt expression for the new approach that both the Bank and
Government have articulated. The current strategic framework and the new generation
projects are promising. Taken together, and, if implemented, the new approach offers a
muchmore positiveprognosis for the way forward: the management into the future o f
Yemen's water resources.




12. Severalofthese projects currently have problematicimplementationperformance While possiblyto be
expectedat the beginning ofprojects forging new directions, these implementationdifficulties will needto
beresolvedfor the projectsto usefullypilot the innovationsbeingpromoted.

                                                                                                         23                                           Annex A


    Annex A. BasicData Sheet

    LAND            ANDWATER CONSERVATIONPROJECT(CR. 2373-YEM)


*-- Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)  IIw--A..
                                                                                                                           Actual or
                                                                                                      estimate         current estimate      appraisal estimate
    Total project costs                                                                                  47.6                30.1                    63
    Loan amount                                                                                          32.8                28.8                    88
    Cofinancing                                                                                          3.2                 n.a.
    Cancellation


    Cumulative EstimatedandActual Disbursements                              -
                  &-m---                                  " 1 1 __*I          w-.l_ol   ***--wrm                    ."
                                                                                                                                                                 -a-

                 -                     FY93                                   FY9J        FY96               FY97
                            "                             -FY94                                        -- ___._I - .
                              111--                                                                               -. .___-I_-                 I 1-1111
                                                                                                                                                I_       1
   Appraisalestimate                      ~0.3        ~           3.5     I_ l___l___ i__
                                                                              I
                                                                              10.7        19.11              27.5      32.3    --32.8    32.8     32.8      32.8--
    (US$M)
   Actual (US$M)                           0.0                   0.5           1.8          11.5             15.3      19.0     24.6     27.8     28.3      28.5
   Actual as % of                          0                        14         17            60               56        59       75       85      86         87
   appraisal
-Dateof ~ ------
    -                                   -                                     -- -
__I_             -. __._                     ____I            _ _ . _ .
                  final disbursement:
                    x1  --~~-~_I_                                           -=                                                                                   N




  --,
   ProjectDates
                -~      __ci______jl
                               _- - --                                                                       Original              ___        Actual
                                                                                                                                                   *-I__.-__-"-
--I                       lil_                                                                                      "llllll_-_          _ 1
    Initiatingmemorandum                                                                                                                     10/31/1989
   Appraisal                                                                                                                                 5/17/1991
   Boardapproval                                                                                                                             5/28/1992
   Effectiveness                -----                                                                        5/14/1993
                                                                                _-                           6/30/1999
                                                                                                                  -"..-----                  12/31/2000
                                                                                     ~




   Staff                               staff weeks)                         -
m-m-                                   -"-           ____F--                          _--a-=--s-,m*-.-%A-
                                                                   Staff Weeks                           US$ ( '000)
   Preappraisal                                                               87                             237
  AppraisalINegotiations                                                      53                             165
  Supervision                                                                 150                            444
  ICR                                                                         15                             64
  Total                                                                       305                            910
_-".&----=-*___(               d s _ n m                               --a                                      -.
                                                                          gL             =---v-             *W"   II

                                                         24                                            Annex A


 Mission Data
                       Date         No. of         Specializations       Implementation      Development
                    (month/year)  persons           represented             Progress          Objectives
 Identification/   Oct 1989-June                      E, C, F, A,
 Preparation           1990
 Appraisal/          May 1991-
 Negotiations        March 1992
 Supervision 1       July 1992         2                                      HS                  HS
 Supervision 2       Feb 1993          1                                        S                  S
 Supervision 3       Oct. 1993         3                                        S                  S
 Supervision4        April 1994        2                                        S                  S
 Supervision 5       Oct. 1994         3                                        S                  S
 Supervision 6       Aug. 1995         1                                        U                  S
 Supervision 7       Apr. 1996         2                                        S                  S
 Supervision8        Oct. 1996        3                                         S                  S
 Supervision9        Jul. 1997        4                                         S                  S
 Supervision 10      Feb. 1998        4                                         S                  S
 Supervision 11      Oct. 1998        5                                         S                  S
 Supervision 12      Mar. 1999        2                                         S                  S
 Supervision 13      Aug. 1999        3                                         S                  S
 Supervision 14      Apr. 2000        2                                        S                  S
 Supervision 15      Oct. 2000        2                                        S                  S
 Completion          Feb 2001         4                                         S                  S


 SpecializationsRepresented: A=Agriculturalist; O=OperationsOfficer; C=Economist; E=Engineer; F=FinancialAnalyst;
 WS=Water ResourcesSpecialist;V=Environment; L=Legal;S=Social Scientist; N=Natural Resources Management
 Specialist



 Other Project Data
 Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
 FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
 Operation                                                 Credit no.        Amount               Board date
                                                                           (US$ million)
~
 Groundwaterand Soil Conservation Project                Cr. 3860               40.0              Feb 26 2004
 Sana'a BasinWater ManagementProject
                ---"-                                    Cr. 37740              24.0              June 3 2003
                              ,   L%---w*= I--slL
                                                -    A                                                 --a

                                                                          25                                               Annex A


    TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOTPROJECT(CR. 2913-YEM)


  -*Key--.*ProJect Data
      --          .
           I        I--                                                              *----              ==..a=- P    A            w - 2
                                                                                             Actual or               Actual as % of
                                                                   estimate               current estimate         appraisal estimate
    Total project costs                                                i1.oa                     9.30                     a4
    Loan amount                                                        10.20                     8.50                     a3
    Cofinancing
    Cancellation                                                                                                                  -..-

    CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
 *   xm v                                                 ----
                                                                    A-*--s*=                                                 --=-
                                   l-_--llll_. FY97    -  FY98l.li  _ _ FY99~ -
                                                                             _10.0_
                                                                               _   .--.-FYOO    3 -7---        ---%--=Ti_.
                                                                                                       FYOl         FY02       FY03
                                                                                                                              _I_ _ _ _ _
    Appraisal estimate (US$M)     ~              3.5    I   8.5                           10.2         10.2         10.2        10.2      "



    Actual (US$M)                              0.3'         2.9               3.9         5.0           6.7          8.2         8.4




                     t costs(US$'000)         .
                       ~-&--"-                   n lI\.     %-      --w--r-"m-
                                                                     US$'OOO
   Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and                            130.6
   Negotiations
  Supervision                                                            565.2
   ICR                                                                     20.0
  Total '*=--*                                                           715.8
#P*-*                   -__l"---
  Staff weeks not available

                                                          26                                           Annex A



                      Date      No. of Specializations Implementation Development
                  (monthlyear) persons     represented         Progress      Objectives
Identification      Feb 1996        1            C
Appraisal,          April 1996      4        E, L, C, S
Negotiations
Supervision 1       Jan. 1997       2           c (2)              S                S
Supervision 2      June 1997        3         C, S, H              U                U
Supervision 3       Oct. 1993       4        E, S, C(2)            U                U
Supervision 4      March 1998       4        E, 0,C, S             S                S
MID-TERM            July 1998       3        E, C, F, S            S                S
REVIEW
Supervision 5       Dec. 1998       5      0,H, S(2), E            S                S
Supervision 6       April 1999      3         0,w,s                U                S
Supervision 7      Sept. 1999       3         F, 0,S               U                S
Supervision 8      March 2000       8      F, 0,S, F, H,           S                S
                                              MNSID.
                                           MNSRE,WS
Supervision 9       Jul. 2000       1            C                 S               S
Supervision 10      Dec. 2000       3         F, 0,C               S               S
Supervision 11      May 2001        1            F                 S               S
Completion         Nov. 2001        3         F, 0,C

Specialist; V=Environment; L=Legal; S=Social Scientist; H=Hydrogeologist;WID=Gender Specialist; D= Disbursement
Specialist; P=ProcurementSpecialist; MNSID=Sector Manager (infrastructure); MNSRE=SectorManager
(rural/environment);

                                                                                        27                                                                                    Annex A


       SANA'A WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATION PROJECT (CR. 3209-YEM)


                            FA_  ect Data(amounts in US$million)
                                               =---a                  =--                                    -%-_-a
                                                                                     Appraisal                                   Actual or                         Actual as % of
                                                                                      estimate                               current estimate                   appraisal estimate
       Total project costs                                                              28.0                                       24.6                                     88
       Loan amount                                                                      25.0                                       22.7                                     91
                                                                                                                                                       -                                  --
                                                                                                                                        -e                 *am-,    --.=n




 ----% CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements                                                                --a?-----                                       .-_-a%-=

                           - -                                                                            ___ --           m02      ---                                         FY04
      Appraisal estimate (US$M)                                                      15.8                                   22.8                          24.7      _ ^ _ _ _    24.7
      I____ _I__                                    - -8.0
                                                       I    ---_I____.__           __l_l-"                                                                        II                 I_-_I___




      Actual (US$M)                                     9.3                          14.0                                   18.2                          21.2                   22.6

      -___
      Actual as YOof appraisal
                           -                            116
                                                          -                          88                   __   __            80                      - __ 86  ----                 91
       Date of                      rsement:
e_-                                                                                                            II




                                                                                                                                                          - .._-    ------                  -
                                                                                                                          I  &.* .----- ,=                       _=
~-                        -                                                                                                 -                             --_     ___I__.
                                                                                                                                                                    Actual
                    I I__(I--       _.."_--I_           I                   ~            l_l                             l___"                                                    _I-_I-
       Initiatingmemorandum                                                                                                                                       12/01/97
      Appraisal                                                                                                                                                    2110199
      Board approval                                                                                                                                               5113199
      Effectiveness                                                                                          8101199                                               6130199
      Closing date                                                                                                                                                 6130103
        v------                                                                                                                                                          .   __SI--xye




      StaffInputs(Staff Weeks.I_ Costs)                   and
--=--                       ----                                     I...,




                                                       No. of Sta
                                                         Weeks
      IdentificationlPreparation                             96                      336
      AppraisalINegotiation                                  33                       115
      Supervision                                         113                        397
      Total                                                                          848
                                                          &--'=-----
                                                          242                            --
                                                                                       %




---   MissionData -- - -----Date      -a%-.         No. of                   Specializations ---->--*---A                  Implementation  Ea------=-     Development
                                  (month/year persons                           represented                                     Progress                    Objectives

      Identification1 March 1995
                               ~~~                   NIA                     F, E, 0,WS, L,SM
      Preparation                 to Dec. 1998
      AppraisallNeg                 February         NIA                0,C, E, F,L, D, SM
      otiations                      1999to
                                  March 1999
      Supervision 1                July 1999
      Supervision2                 June 2000
      Supervision3                 July 2001
      Supervision4                 June 2002
      Supervision 5                Nov. 2002
      Supervision6                 May 2003
                                                                                                                                                                -
B                P  T                                                                                                                                - ---
                         ~                                                                S I                  7-
      Specializations Represented:O=Operations Officer; C=Economist; F=Financial; E=EngineerWS=Water Resources
      Specialist;V=Environmental Specialist; SM=Sector Manager; L=Legal; Disbursement Officer

                                               28                                         Annex A


  Other ProjectData
  BorrowerlExecuting Agency:
~ FOLLOW-ON
  _ _  _ _  OPERATIONS~-                     _-                                   .-
                                               _I ___-_^_^_l___l______      ~
  Operation                                     Credit no.              Amount      I_I-
                                                                                       Board date
                                                                      lUSd million)
  Urban Water Supply and Sanitation - APL        Cr. 3700                130.0         Aug 12002

                                                                 29                                    Annex B


Annex B. ProjectComponents and Costs

                                                                           Estimated     Actual Project Actual as
Project Components                                                         Costs at      costs          Percent of
                                                                           Appraisal     (US$ million   ~~~~~~l
                                                                           (US$ million)
Land and Water Conservation Project
1. InstitutionalStrengthening: Water Resources(for project related              5.6           8.4           149
individualslentities in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, NWRA
and the project implementation units)
2. Institutional Strengthening : Forestry (mainly for staff of the General      4.1           3.6           87
Directorate of Forestry and Desertification Control)
3. Spate Irrigation (improving irrigation systems supplied through              6.0           3.7           62
diversion of water from occasional rain induced flash floods)
4. Groundwater Irrigation (improving the efficiency of groundwater             18.8           7.4           39
distribution through pipe conveyance)
5. Agricultural Development (project related agricultural extension)            1.5           1.6          107
6. Project Implementation Units                                                 4.5           2.2           49
7. Land Conservation/Afforestation(various techniques including tree            4.2           1.7           41
planting, woodland management, sand dune fixation)
8. Watershed Management (piloting new watershed and terrace land               2.8            1.4           50
and water management practices)
                      Total                                                    47.5          30.0          63.0
Taiz Water Supply Pilot Project
1. Well Field Development infrastructure for development of                    5.4            5.3           98
exploitation wells and transmission piping)
2. Rural Infrastructure (as compensation for rural communities affected        2.2            2.6          -118
by the project`s water exploitation)
3. Water Exploitation Studies (groundwater studies for future                  2.3            1.4           61
exploitation)
                     Total                                                     9.9           9.3           94.0
Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project
1. "Water Resources" (well field development)                                  7.6           5.8            76
2. Water Supply and Distribution (improving the city's water distribution      4.9           3.7            75
network)
3. Sewerage (mainly for a sewage network in Sana'a's Akama area                7.7           8.0           104
4. Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (for Sana'a corporation)         5.3           4.5           84
5. Preparation of Possible FutureAPL                                           2.5           2.6           104
                     Total                                                     28.0          24.6          88.0


                                                     31                                             Annex C


Annex C.BankFinancedWater ProjectsinYemen

                       (chronologically, starting with the most recent projects)


Project Name                                                   PONumber                      Approval
                                                                                             Date
ACTIVE PROJECTS:

Groundwater and Soil Conservation                              PO74413                       Feb04
Sana'a Basin Water Management                                  PO64981                       June 03
UrbanWater Supply and Sanitation APL                           PO57602                       Aug 02
Taiz Mun.Devt. and FloodProtection                             PO70092                       Nov 01
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                              PO05906                       Dec 00
IrrigationImprovement                                          PO62714                       Sept 00


CLOSEDPROJECTS:
Sana'a Water Supplv and Sanitation ***                         PO05907                       May 99
Emergency FloodRehabilitation
Taiz Water Supplv Pilot***                                     PO48522                       Dec 96

LandandWater Conservation ***                                  PO43367                       Sept 96
                                                               PO05836                       May 92
Tarim Water Supply                                             PO05884                       June 90
Taiz FloodDisaster Prevention & Mun.Devt.                      PO05884                       June 90
Emergency FloodReconstruction                                  PO05896                       Dec 89
All Mukalla Water Supply                                       PO05893                       Jul88
Greater Aden Water Supply I1                                   PO05876                       Oct 86
SeiyunRegional Water Supply                                    PO05872                       Nov 83
All Mukalla Water Supply Rehab.                                PO05864                       June 81
Wadi BeihanAgricultural Development                            PO05862                       May 81
Greater Aden Water Supply                                      PO05861                       June 80
Wadi Tuban Agricultural Development                            PO05855                       Feb78
Tihama Development                                             PO05775                       Jan 80
Ibb&Dhamar Water Suppl. & Sanitation                           PO05776                       Sept 79
Wadi RimaIrrigation                                            PO05768                       May 78
Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation I1                          PO05767                      Dec 76
Hodeidah Water Supply.                                         PO05761                       June 75
Southern UplandRuralDevelopment                                PO05759                      May 75
Sana'a Water Supply I                                          PO05758                      Jan 74
Tihama DevelopmentProject                                      PO05755                      May 73

Note 1:    *** and  underline indicates PPARProject.
Note 2: The agricultural projects listedhere are designated as water projects ifirrigation i s a substantial
part o f the project.


                                                 33                                    Annex D


   Annex D.Water ResourcesManagement:The Needto Learn
                           (Sana'a Water Projects from 1974)


 While overall performance o fthe Sana'a Water Supply and Sanitation Project has been
 assessedmoderately satisfactory, this rating comprises two performance areas with distinctly
 contrasting achievement, Actions to strengthenthe new Sana'a water corporation and the
 accompanying policy and institutional dialogue were pioneered by Sana'a WSSP andwere
 excellent, but water resources management, specifically groundwater management, was very
 weak. The lacuna on the WRM side i s notable for a longtrack record o fprior experience and
 advice on WRM and i s worth illustrating,

 Inthe Sana'a WSSP appraisal reportthree main sector issues are presented(page two) o fwhich
 the thirdis the water scarcity issue. However, the subsequentproject strategy contains no
reference to water resources management. Inthe environmentalassessment section it i s first
 stated that "there are no know major environmental issues inthe project." Subsequently, two
 important local environmentalissues are, appropriately, discussed: wastewater disposal and
 sludgere-use. Butnot the overarching andmuchmore fundamental groundwater depletion
issue. Then, the project designand implementationexacerbates the issue: by indiscriminate
pumpingbeyond sustainable yields. The risks section contains no reference to depleting
groundwater. Finally, the Summary o fEnvironmental Assessment at Annex 9 repeats the
quote above andpresents the "three main environmental issues." These are cesspit removal
and sewage disposal, dried sewage sludge, and disposal o fhazardous chemicals. After
discussing these, there i s then a discussion o fother environmental issues, including, for
instance, noise and air pollution duringconstruction, but not water resources management.
Throughout the appraisal report, the overarching groundwater depletion issue was substantially
ignored.

The concernhere is that the learningprocess regardingthe environment andthe groundwater
depletion issue was not integrated, despite a long history o f experience, awareness and advice
including advice from IEG. Sana'a WSSP was preceded bytwo earlier Sana'a U W S S projects.
The first Sana'a Water Supply Project (FY74) was clear inacknowledging the groundwater
issue, commenting that the Sana'a water table was declining by about 3 meterdyear. IEGdid
an audit o fthe project (December 1984, Report No. 5402). IEGconsidered that the project had
been generally successfully implemented. But it strongly commentedon the needfor improved
water resources management. It concluded that: "Aproper assessment of aquifer yields is
imperative ......" In December 1998 another IEGaudit was done (Report No. 7553), this time
on the Second Sana'a WSSP. It commented (para 19) that: "There is a serious and
progressive decreasein theyield of a number ofproduction wells due to the over-pumping of
the aquifers and the design capacities are no longer relevant.  " Inpara24 it says: "In
consideringIDA'Srole in the water supply sector inparticular and in the YAR in general, the
issue of water resource management deserves special attention. Later inthe 1998 PPAR (para
4.02) it i s stated that"management of water resources in YAR with special emphasis on the
Sana'a basin needs to be improved."

Some 25 years passed from the beginning o fthe first Sana'a water project to approval o f
Sana'a WSSP. But the groundwater depletion issue, and the continuous depletion and collapse
ofwell sites due to indiscriminate pumpingwithout managingrecharge, was neglected.


                                                        35                                              Annex E


Annex E.Learning from Experience:Adaptations inthe
Groundwater ConservationProgram


The Groundwater and Soil Conservation Project (GSCP, ongoing, FY04) has adapted the
initial approach to agricultural water saving pioneered under LWCP. The technical
features o f the water conservationpackage are broadly similar: use o f PVC pipingto
convey water (as opposed to use of open field channels). For more advanced farmers, the
use of pressure irrigation (drip, sprinkler, bubble) systems to irrigate the crop is an
option. Boththe conveyance pipe and the irrigation system save on water by about 25%
each, thus, combined, with about 50 percent water saving. GSCP has adapted the
approachbased on the LWCP experience. As GSCP i s still inearly stage it i s too soon to
assess the success o f the adaptations. However, a learning process has been employed:
based on their experience, the project implementers have adjusted inareas where they
considered improvements inthe LWCP approach needed to be made. Below are the
principal changes made.

LWCP                                                     GSCP
Multi-component project,with several agencies involved,  Simple project. Focused on scaling up the groundwater
and including policy/legislation objectives              package only

No irrigated agriculture extension - farmers not using   Provides extension services
system optimally


Individual farmer approach                               Farmers must be in an irrigation association (community
                                                         support and self monitoring)


No conditions for participation                          Farmer must agree (in a signed agreement between the
                                                         farmer, the association and the government agency) not to
                                                         expand irrigated area (thus, water savings only).


No accompanying public awareness program                 Major public outreach program to disseminate water saving
                                                         awareness


                                              37                                    Annex F


 Annex F.Water Sector Focus inYemen Strategy Documents

 Yemen, CountryWater ResourcesAssistance Strategy(CWRAS,March2005):This
 very recent document   - also referredto as the "Water CAS'' - i s the Bank's first
 comprehensive water sector analysis inYemen and was prepared inclose partnership
 with Government. The Water CAS places groundwater depletion as the primary issue
 needingattention.

 The NationalWater Sector Strategy and InvestmentProgram,2002-2009 (NWSSIP,
 March2005): TheYemen Government's "NWSSIP" was publishedat approximatelythe
 same time as the Bank's Water CAS, andpreparation also involved a degree o f mutual
 interactionbetweenGovernment and the Bank. This was Government's first water sector
 strategy document and i s a watershed achievement inthat it put water conservation and
 development centrally inYemen's development strategy. Preparing this, which also
 involved substantial discussion inYemen's Cabinet, was one o fthe first actions o fthe
 newlycreated Ministryo fWater and Environment.

 The 2002 CAS: Environmentalsustainability, includingwater, is one o fthe four main
 objectives o f the 2002 CAS, which states as a core objective: "Ensuring Environmental
 Sustainability-policies and investments for water sustainability, watershed stability and
 soil conservation .,, ,
                      . ." The 2002 CAS highlights exhaustion o f groundwater and the
need for anintegrated donor strategy for water. It also proposes sector work to prepare a
Water Sector Reform Strategy and specifies three water sector projects to begininthe
 CAS period; a Sana'a BasinWater Management Project, a Groundwater and Soil
Conservation Project and anUrban Water and Sanitation Project (APL). (All o fthese
objectives are now under implementation)

PovertyReductionStrategy Paper (2002): The PRSP discussesthe water sector,
mentionswater inseveral sections and includes inone section a good discussion o f water
issues. But water i s not treated as a dominant issue and i s not inthe PRSP's "main axes"
and objectives. The Bank commentary mentionswater, but it also does not highlight
water as a major area for assistance.

Yemen, Towards a Water Strategy(1997): This was the Bank's first sector report on
Yemen's Water Sector. It was particularly significant, especially at that time, as the
dominant focus o f the report i s on groundwater resources management.

The 1996 CAS: Interms o fthe degreeto which water scarcity is discussedrelative to
discussion o f other issues, the 1996 CAS places greater emphasis on the water sector than
the 2002 CAS. Promotiono f sustainable natural and humanresource development,
including a focus on water, i s one o f the CAS' three main objectives. The CAS also
proposes preparation o f a water sector strategy.

