Page  1
                                           May 12, 1993
H.E. Dr. Farag Bin Ghanem
Minister of Planning and Development
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
               Re:  Credit No. 2373 YEM
                    (Land and Water Conservation Project)
                    Amendment to the Development Credit
                    Agreement
Your Excellency:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Land and Water
Conservation Project) between the Republic of Yemen (the Borrower)
and the International Development Association (the Association),
dated June 19, 1992.  We also refer to the request of the Borrower
to amend Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement in view of
the delay to declare the Credit effective, contained in a letter
from Mr. Anwar Al Haraza, Acting Deputy Minister, Project
Programming and Planning, Ministry of Planning and Development,
dated May 12, 1993.
    We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due
consideration, has agreed to the above request.  Accordingly,
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and
replaced by a new Schedule 4 as attached hereto.
    All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement, as amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
    Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning it to us.
                           Very truly yours,
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Ram K. Chopra
                               Director
                         Country Department II
                  Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By_________________________
  Authorized Representative
Date:______________________
                                             Attachment
                                            Page 1 of 3
                      SCHEDULE 4
Page  2
                Implementation Program
1.        The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit
established within the MAWR with organization, staffing and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist in
implementation of the Project.
2.        The Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign persons to
designated positions prior to receiving training under the Project
and shall require such persons to agree to complete a stipulated
number of years of service in such assignments upon completion of
training.
3.        The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the ongoing Water Resources Strategy is completed by June 30,
1994.
4.        (a)  The Borrower shall cause MAWR to appoint seven
subject matter specialists for irrigation agronomy no later than
March 15, 1993, and to appoint three additional subject matter
specialists for irrigation agronomy by March 15, 1994, who shall
receive training under the Project.
          (b)  In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign approximately nine agricultural
graduates to the Directorate General for Forestry and Rangelands by
March 15, 1993, and to assign approximately nine additional
agricultural graduates to the Directorate General for Forestry and
Rangelands by March 15, 1994.
          (c)  The Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign at least
one duly qualified counterpart to each consultant under the Project,
such counterpart to provide full-time assistance and to receive on-
the-job training under the Project.
5.        (a)  The Borrower shall cause MAWR to introduce by
March 1, 1993 a pilot program in Amaran for the registration and
licensing of drilling rigs and for issuing licenses for the drilling
of new wells.  The Borrower shall provide to the Association for its
review and comments, by June 1, 1994, a report on the implementation
of such pilot program in Amaran.
          (b)  The Borrower shall implement a nation-wide
program, satisfactory to the Association, for the registration and
monitoring of well drilling by August 31, 1994.
          (c)  The Borrower shall levy fees on a nation-wide
basis, satisfactory to the Association, for the registration of
drilling rigs and for issuing licenses for the drilling of new
wells, by August 31, 1994.
          (d)  The Borrower shall cause MAWR to complete, by
March 31, 1995, categorization of aquifers with the greatest rates
of groundwater depletion, including those located in the Sahaar and
Sana'a basins, and to complete, by June 30, 1996, categorization of
the remaining major groundwater zones and aquifers of Yemen in
accordance with rates of groundwater depletion, water quality, and
an assessment of groundwater resource availability for agriculture.
The Borrower shall cause MAWR to establish criteria for the
licensing of new irrigation development commensurate with the
categorization of such aquifers and groundwater zones.
6.          The Borrower shall cause MAWR to complete, by October
30, 1993, a study for the reorganization of the water Resources
sector under Part B (1) (b) of the Project,  and following
completion of such study, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on the findings and recommendations thereof.
Thereafter, the Borrower shall cause MAWR to carry out by March 31,
1994, on the basis of  such recommendations and exchange of views,
an action plan for reorganization of the Water Resources Sector.
7.          The Borrower shall, for carrying out Part C (4) of the
Project, cause MAWR to appoint:  (a) by June 30, 1993, a
Page  3
multi-disciplinary team consisting of duly qualified civil
engineers, foresters, agriculturists and sociologists; and (b) by
June 30, 1994, a second similarly constituted multi-disciplinary
team.
8.          The Borrower shall cause MAWR to provide to the
Association for its review and comments, by October 31, 1993, the
design of a program to recover operation and maintenance costs
related to large scale spate schemes, and shall implement such
program according to a schedule satisfactory to the Association.
9.          The Borrower shall cause MAWR to employ, in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
the following consultants:
           (a)   By September 30, 1993, the Water Resources
specialist, the Woodland Management Expert, the Chief Technical
Adviser for the Water Resources Sector, the Chief Technical Adviser
for the Forestry Sector, and the Chief Technical Coordinator for the
Watershed Management component; and
           (b)   By September 30, 1993, the Senior Irrigation
Engineer.
10.        (a)   Prior to the supply of conveyance pipes and other
materials for the improvement of on-farm irrigation under Part A (1)
of the Project, the Borrower shall obtain the agreement of farmers
to cost recovery arrangements.
           (b)   Prior to the supply of gabion baskets and other
materials for the improvement of traditional spate irrigation
schemes under part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall take all
measures necessary to consult with and obtain the consent of the
benefitting communities to: (i) cost-sharing and cost recovery
arrangements for the construction of such spate works for which the
benefitting community would contribute towards all labor and
machinery operating costs; (ii) a water allocation plan for the
distribution of Irrigation water; and (iii) cost recovery
arrangements for the subsequent operation and maintenance of such
spate works.
           (c)   Prior to the supply of materials under Part C (4)
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the multi-disciplinary
teams to consult with and obtain the consent of the benefitting
communities to the respective watershed rehabilitation plans, for
which the benefitting communities shall agree to contribute towards
all labor costs.
11.         The Borrower shall cause MAWR to provide to the
Association for its review and comments, by September 30, 1993, an
action plan for media programs, dissemination of information
packages and other publicity concerning the proposed program for
controlling water use and new irrigation developments.  The Borrower
shall cause the regional development agencies, the LCCDs and other
concerned agencies to assist in the implementation of this action
plan according to a schedule satisfactory to the Association.
12.       The Borrower shall provide to the Association for its
review and comments, by December 31, 1995, a detailed report to
facilitate a mid-project evaluation, concerning project
implementation to date, including implementation of the program for
controlling and regulating use of water resources in the agriculture
sector.  Upon completion of the evaluation, the Borrower shall
discuss recommendations for an action plan with the Association and
shall thereafter implement the action plan according to a schedule
satisfactory to the Association.
13.       Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
include in each annual budget of MAWR and the Regional Development
Agencies amounts required to provide funds for the estimated yearly
costs of the Project, including adequate field allowances for
project personnel.
Page  4
