Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2373 YEM
               (Land and Water Conservation Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 19, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2373 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from an additional
multilateral aid development organization ("Cofinancier") a grant
("Cofinancing") in an amount equivalent to $3,170,000 to assist in
financing the Project on terms and conditions to be set forth in an
Agreement ("Cofinancing Agreement") to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Cofinancier; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
modified by the deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02 (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MAWR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources;
      (b)   "Regional Development Agencies" means collectively the
Project Implementation Unit established under the Central Highlands
Agricultural Development Project (Credit No. 1453); the Project
Implementation Unit established under the Southern Uplands Rural
Development Project (Credit No. 1772) pursuant to Ministerial Decree
No. 26 of 1975; the Sana'a, Sa'adah and Hajjah Agricultural Regional
Development Authority, established under the Borrower's Law No. 17
of 1988; and the Tihama Development Authority, established under the
Borrower's Law No. 2 of 1973;
      (c)   "LCCD" means the Local Councils for Cooperative
Development, established and operating under the Borrower's Law
No. 12 of 1985 and any successor thereto;
      (d)   "Water Resources Sector" means the Directorate General
of Water Resources, the Directorate General of Irrigation and
Maintenance of Water Installations, and the Directorate General of
Farm Mechanization and Land Reclamation, or successor departments or
agencies within the MAWR which carry out the objectives of the
Project; and
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-four million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2002 and ending May 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAWR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than nine months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
Page  5
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Cofinancing Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1993 or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                   ceeds of the Cofinancing shall have been sus-
                   pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                   part, pursuant to the terms of the Cofinancing
                   Agreement providing therefor.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
                   faction of the Association that: (A) such sus-
                   pension, cancellation, or termination is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of
                   the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:           Telex:
Page  6
                   CENPLAN             2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
            For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   INDEVAS             248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC),
                                        64145 (WUI) or
                                       197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         By /s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Ram Kumar Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 900,000        90%
(2)  Equipment,               15,400,000        100% of foreign
     materials and                              expenditures,
     vehicles                                   100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
Page  7
(3)  Technical assistance      5,600,000        100% of foreign
     and training                               expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Unallocated               2,200,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                24,100,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to strengthen sustainable
agriculture in Yemen through: (i) strengthening institutional
capabilities for management and development of irrigation, water
resources, and forests; (ii) introducing a program of water resource
monitoring and regulation in the agricultural sector; (iii) improv-
ing the efficiency of irrigated agriculture; (iv) conserving
indigenous forest areas, accelerating tree planting and extending
soil and water conservation; and (v) through pilot actions,
establishing approaches for watershed management, including
rehabilitation of abandoned terraces.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Irrigation Development
1.    Improving groundwater irrigation through: (a) supply and
installation of groundwater conveyance pipes from existing tube-
wells; (b) supply and installation of improved irrigation systems
(including drip, bubbler and sprinkler systems), and of plastic
tunnels for growing vegetable and fruit crops; and (c) design and
monitoring of groundwater irrigation developments.
2.    Improving spate irrigation through: (a) construction of spate
diversion works, canal control structures and bank protection works;
(b) construction of the Bana-Hasan diversion channel; and (c) provi-
sion of gabion baskets and other materials for the improvement of
traditional spate irrigation schemes.
3.    Improving institutional capabilities for the support of
irrigated agriculture through: (a) rehabilitation and construction
of small offices, staff houses and stores for the Regional Develop-
ment Agencies and for MAWR's Departments of Irrigation in Lahej,
Abyan and Shabwa; (b) provision of equipment and spare parts for
maintenance and technical support for groundwater and spate
irrigated agriculture; (c) provision of technical assistance and
training in irrigation agronomy, water management and irrigation
engineering; (d) carrying out of a study to assess the potential for
using urban waste water for irrigation and forestry; and (e) assess-
ment of the potential for using saline water in irrigated agricul-
Page  8
ture.
Part B:     Water Resources Management
1.    Strengthening the institutional capabilities of MAWR's Water
Resources Sector through: (a) rehabilitation and construction of
small offices for the Directorate General for Water Resources;
(b) carrying out a study for the reorganization of MAWR's Water
Resources Sector; and (c) provision of technical and office
equipment to enable MAWR's Water Resource Sector to plan, coordinate
and regulate water resource programs in the agricultural sector.
2.    Strengthening the human resources of MAWR's Water Resources
Sector through technical assistance, training and overseas fellow-
ships in water resources assessment, planning and monitoring, and
irrigation agronomy.
3.    Undertaking a water monitoring program, including monitoring
of groundwater conditions and rainfall, run off, agrometeorological
data, wadi flows, wadi seepage losses, irrigation abstractions and
other hydrological data, through: (a) establishment of a Central
Water Monitoring Unit in MAWR's Directorate General for Water
Resources; (b) establishment of water monitoring units in the
Regional Development Agencies and in MAWR's Departments of Irriga-
tion in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwa, including provision of equipment
and staff training; (c) drilling of groundwater monitoring wells;
and (d) dissemination of information concerning the proposed program
for controlling water use and new irrigation developments through
media programs, information packages and other publicity.
Part C:     Forestry Development
1.    Piloting approaches for watershed management within catchments
located in the Central Highlands and the Northern Highlands, as well
as for terrace stabilization, through: (a) construction of office
facilities in these areas; (b) provision of gabion baskets and other
materials and equipment for watershed rehabilitation; (c) provision
of tree seedlings and vetiver slips for terrace rehabilitation; and
(d) provision of technical assistance and training in aspects of
watershed management and terrace stabilization.
2.    Strengthening the institutional capabilities of MAWR's
Directorate General for Forestry and Rangelands through: (a) con-
struction of offices, staff housing and stores; and (b) provision of
office and technical equipment and library materials to enable
MAWR's Directorate General for Forestry and Rangelands and the
Regional Development Agencies to plan, coordinate and regulate
forestry programs.
3.    Strengthening the human resources in the forestry sector
through: (a) provision of training in forestry; (b) provision of
overseas fellowships for graduate studies in forestry and cartogra-
phy; and (c) provision of technical assistance in forestry sector
planning and monitoring, woodland and watershed management, terrace
and sand stabilization, wildlife, agro forestry, increasing
participation of women in forestry activities, and forestry
extension.
4.    Sand fixation and flood control through: (a) foredune
construction, construction of coastal shelterbelts for sand dune
stabilization, and stabilization of inland sand dunes; (b) stabili-
zation of water distribution canals and wadi embankments; and (c)
provision of silvicultural, planting, laboratory, aerial photo and
other technical equipment and materials for planting operations,
forest nurseries and sand dune stabilization.
5.    Management of indigenous woodlands through (a) provision and
equipping of offices and stores; and (b) preparation of management
plans for natural woodland areas.
6.    Increasing and improving tree planting and extension in
forestry, and encouraging the involvement of women, through:
Page  9
(a) establishment of forestry nurseries; (b) equipping new nurseries
for the LCCDs; (c) provision of polythene bags and foreign tree
seeds for existing nurseries; and (d) provision of trucks to
transport seedlings.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                             SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,600,000, may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Contracts for items or groups of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $250,000, may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.Contracts for proprietary items and spare parts, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures accept-
able to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Page  10
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Management Unit
established within the MAWR with organization, staffing and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist in implementa-
tion of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign persons to designated
positions prior to receiving training under the Project and shall
require such persons to agree to complete a stipulated number of
years of service in such assignments upon completion of training.
3.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
the ongoing Water Resources Strategy is completed by June 30, 1993.
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall cause MAWR to appoint seven subject
matter specialists for irrigation agronomy no later than June 30,
1992, and to appoint three additional subject matter specialists for
irrigation agronomy by June 30, 1993, who shall receive training
under the Project.
      (b)   In order to carry out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign approximately nine agricultural
graduates to the Directorate General for Forestry and Rangelands by
June 30, 1992, and to assign approximately nine additional agricul-
tural graduates to the Directorate General for Forestry and
Rangelands by June 30, 1993.
      (c)   The Borrower shall cause MAWR to assign at least one
duly qualified counterpart to each consultant under the Project,
such counterpart to provide full-time assistance and to receive on-
the-job training under the Project.
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall cause MAWR to introduce by June 30,
1992, a pilot program in Amaran for the registration and licensing
of drilling rigs and for issuing licenses for the drilling of new
wells.  The Borrower shall provide to the Association for its review
and comments, by October 1, 1993, a report on the implementation of
such pilot program in Amaran.
Page  11
      (b)    The Borrower shall implement a nation-wide program,
satisfactory to the Association, for the registration and monitoring
of well drilling by January 1, 1994.
      (c)The Borrower shall levy fees on a nation-wide basis,
satisfactory to the Association, for the registration of drilling
rigs and for issuing licenses for the drilling of new wells, by
January 1, 1994.
      (d)   The Borrower shall cause MAWR to complete, by June 30,
1994, categorization of aquifers with the greatest rates of
groundwater depletion, including those located in the Sahaar and
Sana'a basins, and to complete, by December 31, 1995, categorization
of the remaining major groundwater zones and aquifers of Yemen in
accordance with rates of groundwater depletion, water quality, and
an assessment of groundwater resource availability for agriculture.
The Borrower shall cause MAWR to establish criteria for the
licensing of new irrigation developments commensurate with the
categorization of such aquifers and groundwater zones.
6.    The Borrower shall cause MAWR to complete, by October 31,
1992, a study for the reorganization of the Water Resources Sector
under Part B (1) (b) of the Project, and following completion of
such study, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on the findings and recommendations thereof. Thereafter, the
Borrower shall cause MAWR to carry out by March 31, 1993, on the
basis of such recommendations and exchange of views, an action plan
for reorganization of the Water Resources Sector.
7.    The Borrower shall cause MAWR to appoint by September 30,
1992, two multi-disciplinary teams consisting of duly qualified
civil engineers, foresters, agriculturists and sociologists for
carrying out Part C (4) of the Project.
8.    The Borrower shall cause MAWR to provide to the Association
for its review and comments, by September 30, 1992, the design of a
program to recover operation and maintenance costs related to large
scale spate schemes, and shall implement such program according to
a schedule satisfactory to the Association.
9.    The Borrower shall cause MAWR to employ, in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the
following consultants:
      (a) by December 31, 1992, the Water Resources Specialist;
      (b) by January 31, 1993, the Woodland Management Expert;
      (c) by March 31, 1993, the Chief Technical Adviser for the
Water Resources Sector;
      (d) by September 30, 1993, the Senior Irrigation Engineer; and
      (e) by June 30, 1993, the Chief Technical Adviser for the
Forestry Sector and the Chief Technical Coordinator for the
Watershed Management Component.
10.   (a) Prior to the supply of conveyance pipes and other
materials for the improvement of on-farm irrigation under Part A (1)
of the Project, the Borrower shall obtain the agreement of farmers
to cost recovery arrangements.
      (b) Prior to the supply of gabion baskets and other materials
for the improvement of traditional spate irrigation schemes under
Part A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to consult with and obtain the consent of the benefitting
communities to: (i) cost-sharing and cost recovery arrangements for
the construction of such spate works for which the benefitting
community would contribute towards all labor and machinery operating
costs; (ii) a water allocation plan for the distribution of
irrigation water; and (iii) cost recovery arrangements for the
Page  12
subsequent operation and maintenance of such spate works.
      (c)   Prior to the supply of materials under Part C (4) of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the multi-disciplinary teams to
consult with and obtain the consent of the benefitting communities
to the respective watershed rehabilitation plans, for which the
benefitting communities shall agree to contribute towards all labor
costs.
11.   The Borrower shall cause MAWR to provide to the Association
for its review and comments, by November 30, 1992, an action plan
for media programs, dissemination of information packages and other
publicity concerning the proposed program for controlling water use
and new irrigation developments. The Borrower shall cause the
Regional Development Agencies, the LCCDs and other concerned
agencies to assist in the implementation of this action plan
according to a schedule satisfactory to the Association.
12.   The Borrower shall provide to the Association for its review
and comments, by June 30, 1995, a detailed report to facilitate a
mid-project evaluation, concerning project implementation to date,
including implementation of the program for controlling and
regulating use of water resources in the agriculture sector. Upon
completion of the evaluation, the Borrower shall discuss recommenda-
tions for an action plan with the Association and shall thereafter
implement the action plan according to a schedule satisfactory to
the Association.
13.   Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall include in
each annual budget of MAWR and the Regional Development Agencies
amounts required to provide funds for the estimated yearly costs of
the Project, including adequate field allowances for project
personnel.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  13
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                  quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
Page  14
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
