RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                Report No. P-575
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
IN THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
December 28, 1967



REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
IN THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in various currencies equivalent to $24 million to the Central Electricity
and Water Corporation (CEWC) for its power expansion program for the period
1968-1973.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.    When the Roseires irrigation project was assisted in 1961 by Bank
Loan 284 SU, IDA Credit 2 SU and a loan from the Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KFW), it was envisaged that electric power would eventually
be generated at the site of the large storage dam to be constructed at
Roseires. A UN Special Fund Power Survey in 1963, for which the Bank was
executing agency, concluded that the installation of generating units at
the Roseires dam would be the best means of meeting the Sudan's growfing
power needs. In 1964 the lenders agreed to modify the description of the
Roseires irrigation project to provide the substructure for a powerhouse.
The project now proposed would include, inter alia, the completion of the
powerhouse and the installation of three generating units at the Roseires
dam.
3.    The power project was first studied by the Bank in 1965 but was
deferred for later appraisal because of weakness in the organization and
accounts of the Central Electricity and Water Authority (CEWA), which was
then a department of the Ministry of Works.  In 1966 the Central Electricity
and Water Corporation (CEWC) was established as an autonomous government-
owned corporation, successor to CEWA, and some improvements in organization
and accounting have subsequently been made.
4.    The proposed loan would be the fifth by the Bank in the Sudan.   It
was negotiated by a delegation headed by Mr. M. A. Ghallander, General
Manager, Central Electricity and Wiater Corporation (CEWC), for the Borrower.
Mr. Mahdi Ahmed, Assistant Under Secretary in the Ministry of Finance
represented the Government. They were accompanied by Mr. Abbas Imam, Office
of the Attorney General, Mr. Sid Ahmad Abdalla, Chief Financial Officer,
CEWC, and Mr. Abdul Rezak, Assistant Chief Engineer, CEWC. Negotiations
were completed on November 9, 1967.
5.    The following is a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
to the Sudan as at lomvember 30, 1967:



-2-
Summar Statement of Loans and Credits to Sudan
Amount (US $ Million)
Loan or                                   Bank     IDA
Credit No.   Year   Borrower   Purpose    Loans   Credit    Undisbursed
Loan 202     1958  Sudan       Sudan
Railways    39.0
Loan 258     1960   Sudan     Managil
Irrigation   15.5
Loan 284     1961   Sudan     Roseires
Irrigation   19.5                 3.1
Credit 2     1961   Sudan     Roseires
Irrigation            13.0        1.5
Loan 440     1965   Sudan      Sudan
Railways    31.0                18.0
Total                             105.0     13.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others               13.5
Total now outstanding               91.5
Amount sold:              5.8
of which has been
repaid       4.1        1.7
Total now held by
Barnk and IDA                     89.8    13.0
Total undisbursed                  21.1      1.5       22.6
Performance on all of these projects has been satisfactory. The closing
date of the 1961 loan and credit for the Roseires irrigation project is
June 30, 1968, which may have to be postponed for a short period. Savings
of between two and three million doUars are expected on this loan and
credit. In April, 19641, IFC made an investment in the Khartoum Spinning
and Weaving Company Limited consisting of a loan in the principal amounts
of $247,000 and L35,000 and a subscription at par for 12,000 shares valued
at $344,383 equivalent.



-3-
6.     Three other projects in the Sudan are under various stages of
consideration.  A mission visited the Sudan in November 1967, to re-
appraise for Bank lending a project for mechanized agriculture in the
Gedaref region after the site of the project was changed at the request
of the Government. Another mission has been in the Sudan in early
December to collect information necessary to complete the appraisal of
an education project.
7.     The Rahad irrigation project is in a more preliminary stage.   This
project would require at least $80 million in foreign exchange.   In view
of the Sudan's economic situation and given the size of the project, its
financing is, to a great extent, dependent upon IDA replenishment and
upon some arrangements being made for the participation of other possible
lenders. Agricultural policies, which were the subject of a number of
recommendations by the Gezira study mission in 1965/1966, must be reviewed
further in conjunction with the preparation for this project. A thorough
review of the economic performance and creditworthiness of the Sudan would
have to precede the financing of such a large project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
8.     Borrower:                     Central Electricity and Water Corporation.
Guarantor:                    Republic of the Sudan.
Amount:                       The equivalent in various currencies of
US $21 million.
Purpose:                      To assist in financing the foreign ex-
change cost of the Borrower's po-er
expansion program.
Amortization:                 25 years including 5 years of grace;
semi-annual installments from January 1,
1973 to January 1, 1993.
Interest:
Commitment Charge:            3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     A detailed appraisal of the project (TO-608(b)) is attached (No.1).



10.    The project, which forms part of a major expansion program planned
by CEWC, will consist of the construction of a superstructure on the
existing foundation of a powerhouse and the installation of three 30 MW
water turbine generating units at the Roseires dam; the construction of
490 km 220 kv and 16 km 110 kv transmission lines, including associated
substations, principally to connect the Roseires station with Khartoum;
the installation of a 15 MW gas turbine generating unit at Khartoum; and
the provision of consulting services to assist in the improvement of the
organization and management of the Borrower. It is expected that it will
be completed by the middle of 1971.
11.    The demand for electric power in the Blue Nile grid, which is the
main system served by CEWC, has been growing at a rate exceeding 19% per
year during the past five years and is expected to continue growing at
about 15% per year during the next six years. The consultants who made
the power survey for the UN Special Fund concluded in 1963 that the
installation of generating units at the Roseires dam would be the most
economic means of meeting this demand, and this judgment has been con-
firmed by the Bank's staff as reflected in the attached appraisal report.
Construction of the project at this time is necessary to supply the demand
as forecast.    The project would also permit significant savings in
foreign exchange which would otherwise be spent on imports of fuel oil.
12.    The total cost of the project is estimated at $41.7 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of $27.7 million equivalent,
most of which would be covered by the proposed Bank loan. Except for
consulting services and some items of standardized equipment, all contracts
would be awarded on the basis of international competition. Bids for most
equipment have been received. The Bank loan would be disbursed for the
foreign currency costs of expenditures on civil works, imported equipment
and consulting services, made subsequent to the date of the loan agreement.
13.    The CEWC Act of 1966 provides for a seven-member Board of Directors,
six of whom, including the General Manager ex officio, are appointed by the
Council of Ministers and the other is a representative of the Ministry of
Finance and Economy. The General Manager is appointed for a five-year term
on the recommendation of the Minister of Works after consultation with the
Board. The Board has resolved to delegate full administrative powers to
the General Manager and it has been agreed during negotiations that his
duties should, in due course, be specified in the Act.
14.    As a result of various past changes in the organization of the
electricity undertaking and the Sudanization of the staff of CEWA in 1964,
CEWC needs considerable strengthening in management and organization.
There is a shortage of experienced staff at all levels; the accounting
system and the statistical records generally have been poorly maintained
in the past and the financial position was impaired by an arbitrary
reduction of rates ordered by the Government in 1963. Fortunately, recent
experience has been more encouraging. The General Manager has strengthened
the staff, and management consultants have already submitted a report on
the organization and management structure. The same consultants would be
retained under the project.



-5-
15.    About two-thirds of the financial requirements of the CEW,1C program
are expected to be covered by internal cash generation and rates are,
therefore, particularly important. New tariffs went into effect on
August 1, 1967, which would provide overall annual returns ranging from
8% in 1969 to nearly 12% in 1973. CEWC and the Government have agreed
not to lower these tariffs until after the project is completed. There-
after, CEW4C has agreed to earn a reasonable return on its total net fixed
assets and that a rate lower than 8% would not be reasonable. The actual
rate would be determined from time to time after consultation with the
Bank. The return from water operations has been lower than that from
power, but CEINC has agreed to maintain a minimum return of 4% and to
raise this if possible to the level of power. In order to provide
additional funds for the project during the construction period, the
Government has agreed to permit during the period 1968-70 the capitali-
zation of interest on its previous advances. CEWC has very little long-
term debt outstanding at present, and the ratio of long-term debt to
equity is not expected to exceed 17/83 during the forecast period.
Long-term debt service would be covered about three times. The loan
agreement between the Bank and CEWC places a limit upon the additional
long-term indebtedness which the borrower could incur.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.    The draft loan agreement between the Bank and Central Electricity
and Water Corporation, the draft guarantee agreement between the Republic
of the Sudan and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
17.    The draft loan and guarantee agreements conform to the normal
pattern for Bank loans to public power corporations.
18.    The guarantee agreement will be subject to ratification by the
Constituent Assembly in the Sudan.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.    A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Republic of the Sudan" (AF-49a) was issued on January 30, 1967 and had
covered the situation in the Sudan to the change in government in July
1966. In May 1967 there was another change in government and a few days
later the hostilities in the Middle East occurred. The attached updating
memorandum (No. 2), on "Recent Economic Developments in the Republic of
the Sudan" dated November 24, 1967 analyzes developments since the last
report and evaluates the Government's economic policy and the future of
the economy. It is based in part on a visit by a member of the Bank's
staff with a Fund mission to the Sudan in July.



- 6 -
20.    A full analysis of creditworthiness is not possible at this time
because the difficulties following the recent hostilities in the Middle
East and the closure of the Suez Canal have limited the consideration
which the new Government has been able to devote to longer term policies.
However the economic performance in the last year has not been discourag-
ing and the updating memorandum reaffirms the conclusion of the earlier
report that the Sudan is creditworthy for a limited amount of borrowing
on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the requirements
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
22.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOIUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Central Electricity and Water Corporation, to
be guaranteed by the Republic of the Sudan, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US $24 Million.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Central Electricity and Water
Corporation to be guaranteed by the Republic of the Sudan, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million United States dollars
(us $24,000,000), to mature on and prior to January 1, 1993, to bear interest
at the rate of six and one-quarter percent (6 V),per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Power
Project) between the Bank and Central Electricity and Water Corporation and
the form of Guarantee Agreement (Power Project) between the Republic of the
Sudan and the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.                                              George D. Woods
December 28, 1967                                              President



