Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 8686
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1926-MAS)
MAY 23, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
THv WORLD SANKt
Washngton. DC. 20433
US A.
0K ad Ou.tw-GwuI
Opm  IWiu;i"^
May 23, 1990
MEMORAN"DUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mauritius -
Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project
(Loan 1926-MAS)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mauritius - Urban Rehabilitation and Development
Project (Loan 1926-MAS)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this prcject has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment                           <
This document ha a rstictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomuance
of theit offcia dutie& lu contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbot World Ban authorization.



F70 OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LO"N 1926-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OP CONTENTS
Preface          .         ....... .  .             . . . . . . . .i
Basic Data Sheet. .                           . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iv
I.    INTRODUCTION.. . . ..1
II.   PREPARATION & APPRAISAL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
A. Urban Sector Review & Project Identification . . . . . . . . . . 2
B. Project Preparation..   . . . . ....... ..                           3
C. Project Appraisal  ...................... . 4
III. IMPLEMNTATION
A. Start-up ............... ..... 6
B. Physical Progress  .............. .      .       .      ...        . 6
C. Project Costs  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
D. Fiwnncing Plan ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .  .   .  12
E. Di!-bursements  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .  .  .   .  13
F. Procurement  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .  13
G. Reporting  .         ......   .. .......   .   . . .14
1. Role of the Bank ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .    .  14
IV.   OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Overall Performance  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
B. Covenants  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
C. Reaching the Target Group  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. MHC Finances ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .. .    ......   .  18
B. Affordability  ....  .        .   . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .    .....   .  19
C. Cost Recovery  . . .  .'.   .  .  .  .    ..... .  .    . . . . .  .  .   .  19
D. Terms of Loans .   .......   . . . . . . .          .  .    .....  .   .  19
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE & DEVELOPMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
B. Overall Achievements ....  .       .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A. Appraisal Analysis ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .    .  23
B. Ex-Post Reevaluation ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .    .  23
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. Conclusions  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
B. Lessons Learned  ...  ....         . . . .   *...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
This document has a estricted distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoritio.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Contract Data  .........                     ........... .............   27
2.    Total Project Costs: Estimated and Actual ......................   28
3.    IBRD Loan Disbursements by Category: Estimated and Actual ......   29
4.    MHC: Key Performance Indicators                  . .        .......   30
5.    Compliance with Key Covenants ..................................       31
6.    Affordability of La Tour Keonig Housing: Estimated and Actual..   32
7.    Project Cost Recovery: Estimated and Actual                 ...   33
8.    Physical Planning, Environment and Housing Expenditure (1988-90)  34
9.    Housing Investment 1984 - 1990       .       .................. ..   35
10.   Economic Rate of Return Calculations       . ... .                     36
CHARTS
1.    Appraisal and Actual Implementation Schedule             .      ..    38
2.    Loan Disbursement Profile: Estimated and Actuaa.                 .    39
ATTACHMENT: Comments from the Borrower    ...40
J,



MAtRITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1926-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for an urban development
project for which Loan 1926-MAS was approved on December 8, 1980 in the amount
of $15.0 million. Final disbursement was made on August 26, 1987 at which
time $2,591,108.95 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of the Eastern
Africa Department on the basis of documents contained in the regional files,
information provided by staff members of the Bank involved with the project
during its execution, and a visit to Mauritius in April 1989. The PCR was
commented on by the Borrower whose views have been incorporated. The valuable
assistance provided by the Government of Mauritius and the staff of the
executing Ministries, departments and agencies is gratefully acknowledged.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached to
the Report as an Attachment.



- ii -
MAURITIUJS
URAN REHABILITATCIC AND DEMELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1926-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DA$A SHEET
--------------------------_--------------------------------_-----____--
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                 Appraisal             Actual
Expectation
------_-_-----_-----_------------_-___--------------------__----------
Total Project Cost (US$ millions)       24.4                18.1
Underrun I Overrun (1)                                   -25.8
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ millions)                           15.0
Disbursed                                                 12.4
Cancelled                                                  2.6
Repaid to 06130189                                         4.2
Outstanding to 06/30/89                                    8.2
Date Physical Components Completed     07183                04/85
Proportion Completed by Above Date     100                   60
Proportion Time Underrun I Overrun                           62
Economic Rate of Return (2)             17                   11.7
Cumulative Estimated & Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY81 PY82 FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Estimated     1.7  4.9 10.9  14.5  15.0    -    -          -
Actual        0.1  2.3  5.0   6.8   8.4   10.7  11.3  12.4
Act/Est Z       6   47   46    47    56         71   75    83
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                  Original           Revisions          Actual
Plan
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---
First Mention                                                12/77
Govt Application         -                                   06/78
Negotiations           10/80                                 10180
Board Approval         12/80                                 12/80
Loan Agreement Date    01/81                                 01/81
Effectiveness Date     05/81                                 05/81
Closing Date           06/84               12/85             12/86
Borrower                                   Government of Mauritius
Exec Agency                                Min of Econ Plan & Devel
Fiscal Year (Borrower)                     1 July -30 June
Follow-on Project                          None
----------------------------------------------------------------__----



- iii -
--------------------*--------------------------------------------
MISSION DATA
Item                   Month         No of    No of Manweeks Report
Year        Weeks     Persons               Date
Identification 1        02/79         2            3        6     04112/79
Identification 2        08/79         3            1        3     09/27/79
Preparation             02180         3            6       18    02/29/80
Pre-Appraisal           02/80
Appraisal               05/80          4           6       24    06/19/80
Total                           12                    51
Supervision  1          04/81         1            1        1    04/07181
2          05/81         2            2        4    06/12/81
3         11/81          2            1        2    02/02/82
4          04/82         2            3        6    06/04/82
5          10/82         2            1        2     11/19/82
6          03/83         2            2        4     04/14/83
7         09183          2            2        4    12/07/83
8          05/84         2            3        6    08/09/84
9          03/85         3            2        6    05/02/85
10         09/85          3            2        6    10/30/85
11          11186         2            1        2     01/28/87
12         10/87          3            3        9    11/09/87
Completion              04/89         1            1        1
Total                                27                    54
--------------------------------.-------------------------------------
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: Rupee (plural Rupees)
Year:
Appraisal year average                         Rate:US$1.00 = Rs 7.57
Intervening year averages
1981                                                  10.00
1982                                                  10.87
1983                                                  11.71
1984                                                  13.80
1985                                                  15.42
Completion year average                                         13.46
Weighted average                                                12.71
---------------------------------------------_-----------------__-----



- iv -
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPNENT PROJECT (LOAN 1926-HAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          This was the first Bank-supported project in the urban sector in
Mauritius. The project was successful in completing all physical works and in
improving existing urban infrastructure. A total of over 6,200 new and
improved dwellings were added to Mauritius, housing stock at costs affordable
to low and moderate income households. The project successfully laid the
groundwork for future action to be taken in the area of national physical
develop'-ent pl.nning necessary to make the best use of the country's limited
land resources in a manner consistent with sound environmental management.
2.          The project was designed to assist the Government of Mauritius to
strengthen institutions for planning, development and maintenance in the urban
sector.   The project sought to establish and implement sound and replicable
practices for the provision of utilities, urbanized land and housing in
existing as well as new urban areas, reducing where possible central
government budgetary support for these purposes. In addition it attempted to
provide relief to cyclone victims, rehabilitate services to low-income housing
areas damaged by recent cyclones and improve the efficiency and service of
public transport throughout the island. 'he major institutional objective of
the project was to provide the basis for the implementation of a national
physical development plan.
3.          The project consisted of (a) 573 serviced residential plots with
core houses and selected comnunity facilities for mainly low-income
beneficiaries at La Tour Koenig, Port Louis; (b) an island-wide program of
6280 loans for home improvement and new house construction loans; (c)
upgrading of water and sewer services at five housing estates owned and
operated by the Central Housing Authority (CHA); (d) improvement of traffic
management in the Port Louis - Curepipe corridor; (e) improvement of the
management of solid waste in Port Louis; and (f) technical assistance to
design and implement a framework for national physical development planning,
study the island-wide transportation system, and investigate revenue-
generating potential within the non-urban district councils.
4.          The physical components were efficiently implemented and no major
problems were encountered. There were no major modifications to the project
apart from the redesign of the plot layout and house plans for the new housing
component at La Tour Koenig. The changes to this component produced
marginally fewer plots and marginally larger houses, with the result that the
poorest of the beneficiaries selected for the scheme required higher incomes
than anticipated at appraisal. The periodic revision of income limits during



- v -
the project inplementation period was carried out in consultation with and
prior approval from the Bank. The delay between the time of the cyclones in
1979 and the availability of housing credit and new serviced residential plots
precluded meeting the immediate shelter needs of cyclone victims.
5.          The goal of providing housing finance to 3700 eligible househvtds
owning plots exceeded the initial target by 70 percent. The Mauritius Housing
Corporation (MHC) successfully implemented the program and continues to
maintain an exceptionally low record of repayment arrears, consistently below
1? of net mortgage value. The savings achieved in other components financed
by the IBRD loan were used to top up the flow of funds to MHC. In the final
analysis, 92X of loan funds actually disbursed by the Bank were directed to
MHC for on-lending to eligible beneficiaries. Devaluation of the Rupee with
respect to the dollar also contributed to the expension of the component
which, measured in local curreny, doubled in size. The project period was
correspondingly extended from three to five and one half years.
6.          The project was co-financed by the Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) in the form of a soft loan used to improve infrastructure at several
publicly-managed housing estates in Port Louis and to improve traffic
management in the Port Louis - Curepipe corridor. Both initiatives were
successful although their implementation was the most protracted owing to the
lengthy start in establishing the credit.
7.          The technical assistance component was designed to facilitate: (a)
implementation of the National Physical Development Plan; (b) examination of
island-wide transportation issues; (c) valuation of all non-urban property;
and (d) training of MHC extensita workers.
8.          A combination of factors worked together to frustrate the
implementation of the National Physical Development Planning (NPDP) exercise.
These factors included i) GOM reluctance to use loan funds to finance
technical assistance; ii) a lack of clarity about the precise nature of the
institutions being proposed; iii) the difficulty in reconciling often
contradictory recommendations made by the different studies; iv) fundamental
disagreement between Ministries as to who should be responsible for the
exercise; and (v) a lack of political will to enforce the introduction of land
use control measures which might inhibit economic growth at a time when
unemployment was a major national issue. As a result, the NPDP was never
formalized as a Government policy during the project period. However much
ground work was prepared and an awareness of the vital importance of economic
development with proper environmental management has been created at all
levels of Government and amongst the public at large.   The Borrower intends
to pursue the establishment of the NPDP as part of a multi-donor program for
economic development with environmental management assisted by the Bank.



MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1926-MAS)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Mauritius is a small island of 2,000 square kilometers located
about 2,400 km from the African mainland in the Indian Ocean. In 1980
almost two-thirds of all land was under sugar cultivation, the dominant
sector of the economy in terms of output, exports, employment and as a
source of public revenue and private investment.   Mauritius lies in the
midst of a cyclonic area and is subject to periodic devastation by tropical
storms.
1.02      In 1980, the population of the country was about 1,000,000 and
growing at an annual rate of approximately 2 percent.   Sixty-five percent
of the country's residents lived in urban settlements, creating average
population densities of 50 people per hectare measured over net useable
areas excluding land devoted to sugar. The labor force was expected to
grow by 3.3Z per year, adding 120,000 new entrants to the market between
1970 and 1980.
1.03      The need to create additional industrial jobs was expected to
put increased pressure on urban land and services. GOM's response to the
competition for scarce land was to develop a physical development strategy
for the island (1972 - 2032). The strategy was adopted in principle by
Government in 1979 in the form of a National Physical Development Plan.
The plan provided long-term locational guidance, a set of sound land use
criteria and a preferred terminal land use configuration but lacked an
implementation framework.
1.04      During the 1970's Mauritius invested 1 avily in housing (about
12 percent of GNP). The bulk of the stock was financed out of private
savings or commercial bank loans inaccessible to the poor. Apart from MHC
which on average approved some 400 housing loans per year, no other formal
credit was available for home improvement or extension. A policy of rent
control distorted the housing market by pushing all new investment towards
high income housing to the detriment of the poor. This was accompanied by
deterioration in the condition of the existing StoCk owing to lack of
adequate incentives for maintenance.
1.05      The vast miajority of Mauritius' population has access to piped
potable water, either through privata connections or from public stand
pipes. Towards the end of the 1970's, cost recovery for this service was
put on an economic footing with the raising of tariffs. Less than one
quarter of the population was served by highly subsidized public sewerage
systems, the remainder making use of individual facilities, including pit
latrines. Collection ard disposal of solid waste is the responsibility of
underfinanced local authorities and is most problematic in Port Louis where
less than half of all refuse was dealt with.



- 2 -
1.06      Mauritius is served by a well-developed network of roads with
the heaviest concentrations of traffic in the Port Louis - Curepipe
corridor. Public transport is provided by privately owned bus companies.
The major problems with the system include poor regulation, lack of
coordination, lack of policies for fare and tariff structures, long queues
during peak periods, overcrowded terminal facilities and poorly maintained
equipment.
1.07      Urban and local government is administered through the five
municipaA and three district councils. These bodies are financially weak,
receiving up to 80Z of their budgetary requirements from central
Government.
1.08      The project, the first IBRD-financed operation in the urban
sector, attempted to strengthen institutions for planning, development and
maintenance. It sought to establish and implement sound and replicable
practices for the provision of utilities, urbanized land and housing in
existing as well as new urban areas, reducing where possible central
government budgetary support for thesa purposes. In addition, it attempted
to provide relief to cyclone victims, rehabilitate services to low-income
housing areas damaged by recent cyclones and improve the efficiency and
service of public transport throughout the island.
1.09      The major components of the project included creation of new
low-income community development, the improvement to existing public sector
housing. the provision of housing finance on a national scale, improvement
to management of vehicular traffic and solid waste, the strengthening of
local government finances and the establishment of a national physical
development planning mechanism. The total cost of the project was $24.5
million of which $5.0 million was to be financed by the Saudi Fund for
Development (SFD).
1.10      Sources of information on which this report was based include
the following:
a)   World Bank records;
b)   Financial and other records prepared by the various
implementing agencies in Mauritius;
c)   Interviews with World Bank and Mauritian officials
associated with the project;
d)   Site inspection of the physical works after completion.
II. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Urban Sector Rre:ew and Proiect Identification
2.01      In the mid 1970's GOM, with Bank assistance, developed a series
of industrial estates as part of a strategy for employment generation and
economic growth (IDA Credit 411-MAS). As an extension of this program, it
was proposed that the La Tour area on the southern boundary of Port Louis
be conridered as a suitable site for a new town development, incorporating



. 3 -
commercial, industrial and r6sidential development. In July 1977, at the
request of GOM, the Bank visited Mauritius with a view to assessing the
potential for the La Tour area and advising the Government on a suitable
course of action. The Bank recommended that the scheme be co-.sidered in
the overall context not only of the development of Port Louib but also
within the context of urban development in Mauritius as a whole.
2.02      Subsequently, a Bank mission was mounted in February 1979 with
the objective of identifying a possible integrated urban project. The
mission focussed on reviewing the national-level urban planning work then
being carried out by consultants, reviewing studies on traffic management
and transportation and seeking Government views on the desirability of
developing a strategy for managing the urbanization process in Mauritius.
The mission determined that the possible components of a project cuuld
include a part of the La Tour development, upgrading of existing urban
areas, employment generation, urban transport, and development of an
overall urban sector strategy. It was agreed that a Bank mission be
undertaken to gain a more thorough understanding of the state of Mauritius'
urban sector. In August 1979, the Bank carried out an analysis of the
sector and largely confirmed the identity of possible areas of assistance.
Shortly thereafter consultants funded by the Australian Government
undertook a feasibility study for the proposed La Tour urban development
scheme.
2.03      In December 1979, while these studies were underway, the island
was struck by Cyclone Hyacinthe, causing extensive damage to services and
shelter in low-income residential areas of the Port Louis - Curepipe
corridor. In response to a GOZ request for emergency assistance to provide
relief to victims of the cyclones, the Bank agreed to accelerate the
processing of the project and to include a component for upgrading urban
services in existing low-income areas.
B. Proiect Preparation
2.04      In the span of four months beginning in February 1980, the
project was taken through the phases of preparation and pre-appraisal. In
March 1980 GOM requested and the Bank approved a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of $143,000. The funds were used to expedite the
preparation of a sewerage upgrading component, the La Tour scheme site
investigation and a detailed engineering and a traffic management study.
GOM, with some consultant engineering assistance, prepared detailed plans
for the development of the first phase of La Tour Koenig, a residential
scheme designed to accommodate several hundred homeless victims of the
cyclones. A program of housing finance to be managed by the Mauritius
Housing Corporation was broadened from its initial base of lending for the
La Tour Koenig project to include other mainly low-income households
requiring finance to rebuild their dwellings damaged by the cyclones. Four
housing estates, also affected by the hurricanes and operated by the
parastatal Central Housing Authority, were identified for selective
upgrading of their infrastructure. The urban sector review indicated
severe traffic management problems in Port Louis and, therefore, a
component was prepared which dealt with improving the flow of traffic
through the city. A proposal to construct a major transportation center in



Port Louis was dropped because of uncertainty surrounding the location of a
proposed through road which would link the major north and south bound
roads passing through the city center. MOH prepared a proposal for the
strengthening of the solid waste management system in Port Louis, the sole
remaining component in an earlier proposal for comprehensive area
upgrading.
2.05      The inclusion of cyclone-related works caused the project to
become larger than originally conceived and, therefore, the need for
sources of cofinancing was identified. The Saudi Fund for Development
agreed to fill the funding gap.
C. Project Appraisal
2.06      As appraised in May 1980, the project consisted of the following
components:
(a)  740 serviced residential plots with core houses and selected
community facilities for mainly low-income beneficiaries at La
Tour Koenig, Port Louis;
(b)  an island-wide program of financial credit for home improvement
and new house construction loans;
(c)  upgrading of water and sewer services at selected housing
estates owned and operated by the Central Housing Authority
(CHA);
(d)  improvement of traffic management in the Port Louis - Curepipe
corridor;
(e)  improvement of the management of solid waste in Port Louis; and
(f)  technical assistance for:
(i)  implementation of the National Physical Development Plan;
(ii) examination of island-wide transportation issues;
(iii) valuation of all non-urban property; and
(iv) training of Mauritius Housing Corporation (MHC) extension
workers.
2.07      Approximately 25 acres of land at La Tour Koenig, just south of
Port Louis and adjacent to thL industrial estates of Cormandel and
Plaine Lauzun, were to be serviced for integrated housing development.
Approximately 740 plots were to be provided, at least 60 percent of which
were to be for sale to households earning up to MRs 1200 per month. All
plots were to be provided with piped water supply, waterborne sanitation,
roads, paths and storm water drains, electricity, street lighting and an
optional core house. Agreement was reached during negotiations that La
Tour Koenig would be brought under the jurisdiction of an appropriate
municipal authority for purposes of cost recovery and maintenance.
Community facilities were to include a primary school, a kindergarten, a
creche and a small commercial center.



- 5 -
2.08      Under the project a line of credit was to be made available to
MHC to allow extension of its low-income lending operations. The program
was to make available formalized credit for home repair and reconstruction
for cyclone victims as well as extensions and construction of new housing,
including that required in La Tour. The credit was to provide 3,700 loans
over four years with 60 percent of the loans going to households earning
less than Rs 1200 per month.
2.09      Under the upgrading component, damaged and substandard sewerage
lines and water mains in four public housing estates (La Cure, Roche Bois,
Vallijee, and Borstal) were to be rehabilitated and improved storm water
drains were to be installed.
2.10      The public transport improvement and traffic management
component was designed to improve the efficiency of island-wide transport
services and reduce unnecessary congestion, especially in Port Louis.
Vehicular parking was also to be treated under this component, including
possible changes to relevant legislation.
2.11      A solid waste management program was designed to supply the
municipality of Port Louis with a modest number of simple vehicles,
equipment, and maintenance facilities. Acquisition of additional land for
refuse tipping was to be _ condition of disbursement for this component.
The component was designed taking into account longer-term studies to be
carried out under other donor arrangements.
2.12      A range of technical assistance was to be supplied to facilitate
some of the institutional reform sought under the project. Four key
elements of this program included the implementation of the NPDP, an
island-wide transportation study referred to above, island-wide property
valuation, and training for MHC extension workers.
2.13      The coordination of the overall project was to be undertaken by
the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. The Ministry of Housing
was to implement the La Tour Koenig component with MHC administering the
housing finance program. The Ministry of Works was to implement the
traffic management and public transport component and the rehabilitation of
the CHA estates. CEB was to provide the necessary electrical supply. The
Port Louis municipality was to implement the solid waste management
component.
2.14      The total project cost was estimated to be MRs 185.1 million
(US$24.5 million) at October 1980 prices. Physical contingencies were
calculated at 1OX on all infrastructure and building works. Price
contingencies were estimated at 152 p.a. for 1981/82 and 10 p.a.
thereafter. The estimated foreign exchange requirement was 63 percent.
External finance accounted for 80 percent of the total cost, with 19
percent of the total to be provided by the Saudi Fund for Development.
2.15      Negotiations were carried out in Washington in October 1980 and
the project was approved by the Board on December 8, 1980. The loan



agreement was signed on January 8, 1981. Implementation was expected to
take four years and a completion date of June 30, 1984 was set.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Start-Up
3.01        To enable loan effectiveness the Bank asked the Government to
provide written assurance that the legal requirement to table the loan
agreement in the Legislative Assembly was only procedural and did not
effect the powers of the Minister of Finance who had authorized the
Mauritian Ambassador in Washington to sign the agreement. The loan was
declared effective on May 5, 1981.
3.02      By June 1981, all loan conditions except one relevant to the
start-up of the project were complied with. Subsidiary loan agreements
with the four parastatal executing agencies had been finalized and a
project coordinator was in post. The exception concerned the housing
credit program for which the Government was required to have entered into
an effective loan agreement with the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) as a
condition of disbursement for the component. In the final analysis the SFD
declined to co-finance housing credit, preferring instead to fund the
irprovement of the CHA housing estates and the transport components. In
order to effect disbursement against the housing credit component,
Government and the Bank agreed to a partial waiver of the condition
underwhich IBRD funds, up to $3.5 million of the total of $5.9 million
would be disbursed against the housing credit until such time as the SFD
loan became effective. This would leave a balance of $2.4 million of IBRD
money required to finance house construction at La Tour Koenig and hence
permit the main components of the loan to be financed under the unlikely
circumstances that the SFD loan never materialized.
B. Physical Progress
3.03        Review of implementation progress of the project suggests that
all the physical works financed by IBRD were carried out in a relatively
timely and orderly manner by competent local organizations. The physical
components co-financed by the Saudi Fund for Development endured lengthy
delays caused by the establishment of the credit long after the IBRD loan
became effective and the requirement to seek donor approval throughout
procurement procedures. The major institutional component of the project,
the establishment of a functioning National Physical Development Planning
Unit was never really achieved. Technical assistance required for the
institutional components of the project was almost exclusively provided
through grant-funded assistance.   The schedule comparing actual and
appraisal estimates of project implementation by component is shown in
Chart 1.
Land Development at La Tour Koenig
3.04      Site Planning and Design.  The design of the site layout,
undertaken as part of the project preparation phase, was prepared by the



- 7 -
MHLE Implementation Unit and based in part on design concepts contained in
a pre-feasibility study carried out by consultants funded by the Australian
Government in late 1979. The principle organizing concept of the plan was
the use of terraced housing located in mid-plot, each unit spanning the
full width of the plot and attaching to its neighbor at a party wall. Plot
frontages averaged 4.7 meters. The principle benefit attributed to the
plan was its economy in land, infrastructure and construction costs.   A
review of the site plan by legal experts in May 1981 revealed the potential
difficulties of resolving legal disputes between neighbors over issues of
common roofs and party walls which might arise during the process of
expanding the core units into complete dwellings.   Moreover, a marketing
study carried out in December 1980 had suggested consumer resistance to
plots averaging only 90 m2 in area. The market survey also identified
peoples concern about the practical difficulties associated with expanding
a core unit attached to its neighbor on each side, i.e., movement of
building materials through the unit to get to the backyard. The opinion
was also expressed that a core housing unit was not necessary in every
case, some plot allottees preferring to build their houses from scratch.
As a consequence, a major re-design exercise was done which resolved all
the above problems, including amending all house plans from row house
designs to semi-detached plans. The exercise also resulted in the number
of plots being reduced from 740 to 573 and the average plot size being
increased from 90 m2 to 130 m2   The exercise was completed in early 1982
at which point contracts for the installation of infrastructure were let.
These events delayed the program by about six months.
3.05      House Design.  Six prototype core houses were built in October
1980 after which a market survey was carried out as mentioned above. The
public reaction to the demonstration units resulted in the dropping of the
three smallest of the house types. The remaining three core house plans,
all larger than the largest house design reviewed during project appraisal,
contained a separate kitchen, one or two other rooms, and a bathroom with
shower and toilet. The largest unit, 36m2 in area, also incorporated a
porch. Construction materials included concrete block walls, cast in-situ
concrete roofs, steel door and window frames and stainless steel kitchen
sinks. All units were designed to be expanded horizontally at the back of
the plot. One construction feature which was added to the plans during
detailed design stage was the introduction of reinforced concrete columns
which allowed for the upward extension of the unit, i.e., two storeys. A
contract was let for the construction of 336 units beginning in July 1982.
The last units were handed over in August 1983, only one month behind the
original implementation schedule.
3.06      Site Servicing.  The design of site services was done by the
MHLE Implementation Unit which included the services of a qualified
engineer and quantity surveyor. Contracts were let to private contractors
for (i) site clearance; (ii) installation of all on-site roads, storm
drains, water supply linv-, sewerage mains and telephone conduit; and iii)
bulk supply of water to the site. Installation of electrical reticulation
was carried out by CEB and street lights were installed by MLG. Details of
the contracts awarded are given in Annex 1. With the exception of the
contract for the bulk supply of water which was delayed because of a change
in the decision by CWA on the source of water supply for the scheme, all



-8-
contracts were completed without undue difficulty. This fact may be
attributed to the high quality of contract administration provided by the
Unit. More than 120 weekly site meetings were held with contractors between
September 1981 and December 1984.
3.07      Plot Allocations  Applications for plots were invited jointly by
MHC and MHLE from eligible households in April 1981. More than 3,000
households came forward from which 1,680 appeared to be qualified according
to criteria agreed with the Bank. It was intended that 60 percent of the
plots should be allocated to households earning not more than MRs 1.200 per
month and preference was to be given to victims of cyclones. Eligibility
criteria also included not already owning a house or plot of land in the
country. Selection of beneficiairies was accomplished by public ballotting
in the presence of the Minister of Housing in June 1981.   More than 80
percent of all allottees lived and/or worked in the vicinity of the La Tour
project site. Actual plot allocations began in November 1983 and finished
in October 1984. Plot allocations were delayed a few months after the
completion of core units owing to the 1983 drought which delayed the supply
of water to the scheme.
3.08      Community Facilities  A primary school, designed by MHLE, was
completed in October 1983 and began operation in 1984. The operation of
the kindergarten began in 1985. The creche, under construction in March
1983, did not become operational until January 1987, owing to the
uncertainty as to which local government authority was responsible for the
scheme as a whole. No large scale recreational facilities have been
implemented but the Ministry of Youth and Sports has created volleyball and
basketball pitches. A health center has been constructed with the help of
private funds. Community initiative has led to the creation of a small day
care center. To date there are no major commercial facilities within the
project site as the need for such services is met by facilities in the
immediate area. However, the inhabitants of the scheme have formed an
association which is sponsoring Cooperative Society's stores. MHC is
currently considering their application to use two of the prototype houses
for a start of their business and is also completing the working designs of
a commercial block to which the Cooperative Society's stores will move and
over which MHC will provide 12 apartments.
Home Improvement and Construction Loans
3.09      Loan Targets.  MHC exceeded the overall target of 3,700 loans
for the home improvement and construction lending program established at
the time of project appraisal. By June of 1984, the original target date
for completion, 3,659 loans had been approved. Approximately 6,280 loans
were financed between July 1, 1980 and June 30, 1987. the closing date of
the loan accounts. This total includes 556 loans made for new units at La
Tour Koenig housing estate.
3.10      House Consolidation.  MHC increased its number of building
inspectors from 4 to 12 to meet the demand created by the program. The
additional inspectors hired were all experienced and needed only a modicum
of in-service training to undertake their duties. Most borrowers performed
the function of a general contractor, hiring labor and buying materials



- 9 -
according to their own schedule of implementation. MHC made loan
disbursements to the householder on the basis of staged inspections of the
work. There were very few reported cases of plot holders turning over the
whole process of construction to a contractor.
Table
Allocation of IEHC Loans b. Incose Groue
(1980 - 1987)
Quantity     X         Amount           X _Averae
(ks '"00)           Loan
Low-income
beneflclaries    8,448     64.8%     106,249    38.97X    80,6689
Other income
beneliciaries    2,83?     4S.2%     164,828    61.03%    68,099
Total        6,280      100.0%    270,07&    100.00%
Rehabilitation of Services to CRA Estates
3.11      Service Design.  This component was financed by SFD and absorbed
nearly 50 percent of the co-financing loan. Consultants appointed by the
Ministry of Works prepared detailed engineering designs and tender
documents for the improvement to water supply and sewage disposal £or the
four estates: Borstal, Vallijee, Roche Bois, and La Cure. Tenders, invited
under ICB, were opened in July 1982. Disagreement arose over the
consultants evaluation of the bids and recommendation for award of the
contract. The consultants favored a private sector firm with the second
lowest bid whereas the Ministry preferred the employment of Development
Works Corporaton. a parastatal body, with the lowest bid.   Following a
delay of eight months the contract was finally awarded to DWC and
supervision was undertaken by a special unit within MOW without the
services of the consultant.
3.12      Implementation.  The scope of the works finally undertaken in
respect of the four CHA estates included 14km of surface water drainage,
5.5km of sewerage main, 168 manholes, 16.5km water supply mains, 1046 house
connections to water supply and reinstatement of 16.5 km of road. The
works were completed in various stages between January and November 1985,
some 12 months behind schedule. Delays on the part of the contractor
resulted in claims for liquidated damages by MOW.   The major causes of
delays were inclement weather and lack of building materials. Upon
completion of the works, the Municipality of Port Louis was invited to take
over the maintenance of the storm drains but declined to do so, claiming
that the design standards were too low. The water mains were handed over to
CWA and MOW took over the sewer systems.
3.13      Role of CWA.  In addition to the goal of improving the standards
of water supply to the CHA estates, one of the objectives of the component
of the project was to introduce an element of cost recovery for the



- 10 -
services provided. To this end it was proposed that CWA install water
meters for every house as and when the contractor had upgraded the water
supply lines to each dwelling. This was achieved at all four estates by
May 1986 and billing 4s in effect.
3.14      Additional Works.  Owing to the devaluation of the Mauritian
Rupee with respect to the Saudi Riyal, the SFD loan was adequate to cover
the additional cost of remedial works to sewers at CHA's Vallee des Pretres
estate. Upgrading of water supply to outlying villages valued at MRs 20
million was also added to the program and undertaken in 1988.
Public Transport Improvement and Traffic Management
3.15      Traffic Management.  This component, also funeed by SFD,
included a total of seven contracts valued at MRs 10 million awarded for
the installation of traffic signals, execution of civil works required to
install the signals and other improvements to the urban road network.   In
all 33 traffic lights were installed including 6 pedestrain signals.
Implementation delays were caused by the time required to receive approvals
from SFD and the long delivery time required for shipping of traffic
signals from overseas. Implementation carried on into 1987. Small items
of equipment, a traffic sign manual and a tow truck were also procured.
3.16      Parking.  A locally funded study of on-street parking measures
related to the direction of traffic flow was undertaken. The resulting
package of street markings and signposts was inadvertently omitted from the
the civil works contracts let for the traffic signals and was never
implemented. Measures to introduce off-street parking in Port Louis were
not implemented under the project because of uncertainty surrounding the
implementation of a proposed through road. The through road was
subsequently constructed and became operational in 1988. It was financed
at a cost of MRs 75 million including the cost of a major bus terminus in
center town, by the AfDB. Concern amongst shop owners about the
possibility of removing parking from their immediate business environs may
have also put a damper on the execution of this component of the project.
No legislative changes were made, nor were parking wardens hired or tariffs
introduced.
3.17      GRNW Bridge.  A feasibility study to replace GRNW bridge was
carried out with finance provided by UNDP. The recommendation was
favorable and a new bridge financed by the African Development Bank was
constructed. It was commissioned in September 1985 at a cost of MRs 29
million.
3.18      Transport Study.  An island-wide Transport Study was carried out
by a team at the Transport Management Unit of MOW under the supervision of
an advisor financed by CFTC. The study, completed in December 1984, made
proposals for bus route rationalizations, the reorganization of private bus
companies into a cooperative and for infrastructure improvements. A number
of small bus depots have been constructed as a result of the study.



- 11 -
Solid Waste Management
3.19      Solid Waste Study.  Under the loan agreement, Government was to
undertake a study of the long-term needs for solid waste management in the
country. In September 1982 a report prepared by a French consulting firm
was submitted to Government for review. The major recommendation was the
acquisition of a new site for sanitary landfill between Port Louis and
Curepipe and the conversion of the existing site at Roche Bois to a
transfer point.
3.20      Refuse Tips.  Following the review of the French study, land at
Les Salines, near the port area, was earmarked for a new tip, thus meeting
the condition of disbursement for this component of the loan. It was
operated as such for a few months but discontinued after complaints from
the public caused operations to cease. The site at Roche Bois has
continued to be used, not only by Port Louis but also by Pamplemousse
District. It is not functioning as a sanitary landfill operation.
3.21      Collection.  After drawing up a shortlist of simple equipment
and vehicles for immediate needs, Port Louis decided that the cost of IBRD
money was too high. As an alternative, they procured the necessary
commodities from an existing line of credit from the Indian Government.
The savings of $400,000 in the loan was allocated to the MHC Housing Credit
component. Little of the equipment received is still in use, some of it
being defective from the start and other idle as a result of a lack of
spare parts and local servicing capability.
3.22      Workshops.  The municipality of Port Louis undertook to renovate
and expand the existing workshop facilities, including the installation of
new equipment and construction of a new workshop in Roche Bois, using IBRD
funds at a total cost of MR 1.0 million.   A number of training courses
were also carried, improving the knowledge and skills of mechanics,
welders, electricians and management staff, although the cost of this did
not appear to be charged to the project.
Technical Assistance
3.23      Funds for technical assistance in the amount of $1.1 million
were provided under the project to assist GON with (i) implementation of
the National Physical Development Plan (NPDP); (ii) carrying out of island-
wide transportation and land valuation studies; and (iii) training of MHC
extension workers. Actual accomplishments were mixed. Various sub-studies
related to the NPDP were undertaken with the assistance of expatriate
consultants, three of which were financed from the loan at a total cost of
$24,000. The island-wide transport study, funded by the SFD, was undertaken
by the NTA as discussed above. Training of MHC extension workers and the
island-wide land valuation study were never undertaken. In the case of MHC
the need did not arise in view of its own training program through its
building inspectors. Less than six percent of the MR 8.1 million allocated
under the project for these purposes was spent, GOM preferring to use grant
sources of funding for technical assistance.



- 12 -
C. Proiect Costs
3.24      A detailed breakdown of actual project costs compared with
appraisal estimates is provided in Annex 2. In local terms, final
expenditure amounted to MRs 231 million compared with the appraisal
estimate of MRs 185 million, an overexpenditure of 24 percent.   However,
measured in terms of US dollar, there was an underrun of 25 percent.  The
major factor which accounts for this is the significant devaluation of the
Rupee against the US Dollar and the Saudi Riyal during the project
implementation period. The real savings in actual costs, especially in
respect of technical assistance, engineering supervision and solid waste
management, amounting to MRs 15 million, were used to increase the size of
MHC's housing finance program. Overall contingency provisions in the
project were more than adequate since at no time were transfers made from
Category 11, 'Unallocated', to other categories except for a final transfer
of the whole amount to Category 3a to boost allocations for housing credits
to MHC.
D. Financing Plan
3.25      A summary comparison of actual and estimated project financing
is given in the table below. The IBRD loan of US$15.0 (MRs 113.6 million)
was expected to finance 61 percent of total project costs. The proceeds of
the loan which were disbursed, amounting to US$12.4 million (MRs 157.6
million), financed approximately the intended share of project costs.
3.26      The loan from the Saudi Fund for Development, amounting to
SR16.8 million (MRs 69 million) was signed on March 22, 1982. It was
repayable at 22 interest over 20 years. One hundred percent of all costs
are being financed under the loan, i.e., no requirement for government
contribution. No increase in the scope of works has been planned beyond
those mentioned in para 3.14 to permit the application of the additional
proceeds of the loan created by the devaluation of the Rupee against the
Riyal. It is, therefore, projected that US$2.6 out of the maximum US$5
million will be used in the project. This accounts for the reduction in
the actual share of total project costs covered by the SFD loan. The SFD
loan was still active in 1989 and so final disbursement figures were not
available.
Table 2
Sumnary Proiect Financing (millions)
Estimated              Actual
Rs     S$  Z         Rs    US$    I
IBRD           113.6 15.0  61         157.6  12.4  68
GOH             34.1  4.5   9          39.7   3.2  17
SFD             37.4  5.0  20          33.7   2.6  15
185.1 24.5 100        231.0  18.2 100
8am=     Mt                     =  _ 



- 13 -
E. Disbursements
3.27      Disbursements from the various categories of the loan are shown
in Annex 3 and accumulated disbursements from the loan by year compared
with appraisal estimates are given in Chart 2. Disbursements began as
scheduled but took place at a slower rate than originallv projected,
requiring six years compared to the appraisal ertimate of the three-and-a-
half years. The rate of disbursement of the IBRD loan was tied closely to
the rate of disbursements of MHC to project beneficiaries, since credit for
housing made up 95 percent of the loan amount. Once the housing credit
program came on line, actual disbursements were uniform as can be seen by
the straight line in Chart 1. The average annual total disbursement by MHC
during the six-and-a-half year period was MRs 28.2 million, with a high of
MRs 35 million and a low of MRs 25 million. The lag in the disbursement
profile can be attributed to the doubling in the size of the MHC loan
program from 3,700 to 6,300 borrowers without an increase in the rate of
processing loans. Under such circumstances, an increae of 70 percent in
the size of the program required a commensurate extension of time.
3.28      No disbursement of IBRD funds were made against the components
for upgrading CHA estates and public transport as these were financed by
the Saudi Fund for Development. There was no disbursement against Category
8 as the cost of providing electricity to La Tour was charged to Category
la.
3.29      By December 30, 1986, the second and final extension of the
closing date of the loan, some US$2.5 million or 17 percent remained
undisbursed. On August 26, 1987 IBRD closed the loan account at which time
US$2,591,108 was cancelled.
F. Procurement
3.30      According to the Loan Agreement, procurement of all goods and
civil works was to be by ICB except for:
a) civil works for the solid waste and traffic management components
which could be carried out by force account; and
b) goods for the solid waste component as well as any contract for
civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of (250,000
and miscellaneous equipment except traffic signalling equipment
which, after grouping, estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent, could be procured using local bidding procedures.
3.31      The installation of infrastructure and the construction of core
housing at La Tour were the subject of ICB, both contracts having been
estimated to be in the region of US$1 million. No international firms
showed interest in being prequalified for the works, presumably because of
the relatively small scale of the operations involved. All bids were
opened by the Government Tender Board. Bid evaluation was undertaken by
the MHLE Implementation Unit whose recommendation was referred back to the



- 1 -
GTB for approval. A schedule of the major contracts awarded is given in
Annex 1.
G. Reporting
3.32      Over the life of the project, GO4 submitted less than half of
the required quarterly reports, preferring instead to await the arrival of
World Bank supervision missions to report on progress. Financial reports
from MHC were submitted on a regular basis.
H. Role of the Bank
3.33      GOM officials considered the implementation of the La Tour
Koenig component as a major milestone in the development of appropriate
strategies for low- to middle-income housing. They were appreciative of
the role played by IBRD in guiding the preparation of the scheme. The MHLE
implementation team developed an esprit de corps which was fostered by
highly co-operative interaction with the first project officer assigned to
the project. Members of the team look back upon the experience, now nearly
ten years later, with undisguised feelings of accomplishment. Their only
regret is that the knowledge and skills acquired by the team were not used
to replicate the project.
3.34      All components of the project were supervised by the former
Water Supply and Urban Development Division of the East African Projects
Department. During implementation, a total of 12 supervision missions
visited Mauritius. By project completion, a total of 53 staff weeks or an
average of nine staffweeks per year were spent in the supervision effort.
The first six missions totalling 19 staffweeks were carried out within the
first two years of project implementation. The last mission was undertaken
in November 1987.
3.35      The quality of working relations between IBRD and the Government
of Mauritius remained highly productive throughout the project's execution
notwithstanding an element of frustration experienced by Bank staff over
the issue of implementing the NPDP in the later years of the project.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Overall Performance
4.01      La Tour Koenig.  To-date all core units and serviced plots have
been sold. All but about 20 plots (which MHC is presently trying to
repossessa and re-allocate) have been developed. Over 300 plot holders
have extended their core houses, in many cases by adding a second storey to
the original one storey dwelling.   NHC calculates its total investment at
la Tour to be MRs 31.7 million. Many of the houses constructed appear to
exceed the quality one would expect in an estate dedicated in part to
families of low-income. This can be attributed to two factors. Firstly,



- 15 -
care was taken to avoid branding the scheme as a *low-income" project in
the minds of the public. This was achieved by a moderate increase in the
standards of design of both the plot layout and house plans after project
appraisal. Allocation criteria ensured that 40 percent of the plots would
be allocated to households above the Olow-income' level of MRs 2,000 per
month. Secondly, average incomes of allottees in the project have
increased substantially since the scheme began through a series of
mandatory wage and salary increases and the general growth of the national
economy over the last eight years. The average anuual increase in earnings
of monthly paid central government workers, likely to have formed a
substantial proportion of the population of allottees, increased by 3.5
percent annually in real terms between September 1980 and September 1987.
The allocation agreement prohibits transfers for 10 years without MHC
authority. There is little evidence that any of the original allottees
have sold their rights to the plots. The incidence of subletting
dwellings, also prohibited without MHC permission, is more difficult to
detect. MHC has authorized subletting in cases where the owner has been
transferred to another location for purposes of work.
4.02      All in-ground infrastructure services are operating according to
acceptable standards. The maintenance of roads and stormdrains leaves
something to be desired as does refuse collection. These shortcomings have
been caused by the continued lack of resolution of the iseue of local
authority jurisdiction (refer to para 4.07 (a) below). This issue is also
responsible for the fact that there are as yet no major recreational or
commercial facilities in the project and that lengthy delays in getting the
creche to operate were experienced. A temporary solution to refuse
collection has been worked out with the assistance of the Living
Environment Unit of MLG.
4.03      MHC Housing Credit Program.  MHC continues to run an efficient
housing development operation for all income groups. Annex 4 illustrates
the key performance indicators for the corporation. MHC continues to devote
40 percent of its resources to the low-income group whose cut-off ceiling
is now MRs 3,000 per month. Arrears on their total loan portfolio
continues to be less than 1 percent of net mortgage assets. At the end of
FY 1986, arrears stood at 0.42 percent, amounting to approximately MRs 2
million outstanding from borowers. At the end of FY1987 MEC recorded a
debt/equity ratio of 3.49 and an interest spread of 3.01 percent, both
indicators well within the targets called for under the project. A
Government of Mauritius equity contribution amounting to MRs 21.6 million
allowed the dWe ratio to come down to a more conservative limit.
4.04      CHA Estates Rehabilitation.  Services upgraded under this
component of the project were handed over to their respectiva authorities
for maintenance. Spot checks undertaken to assess the degree to which the
remedial works may have improved the management of storm water flows
indicated definite capacity to avoid the worst of damage but narrow road
widths prohibit the sizes of drains which would be required for heavy
rains. There were few signs of water rollecting on the roadsides. All
water and sewer systems appeared to perform adequately, with water borne
se\vage pumped to two pumping stations, one of which was constructed under
the project, for onward transmission to the two main sewage treatment works



- 16 -
in Port Louis. CHA reported that no major complaints have been received in
respect of services; however, there have been a few isolated cases of
sewerage problems in the Roche Bois and La Cure estates.   To-date tnere
has been little maintenance of the roads and drains. Cost recovery is
being made with respect to water consumption through CWA. KW reported that
there were widespread arrears with respect to sewer charges. It has been
proposed that by July 1990 CWA and MW would implement a process of common
billing whereby water and sewer charges would be collected at the same time
with the latter charges being a function of the volume of water consumed
and no longer on the assessed value of the property. Government has
embarked upon a phased program for upgrading of an additional 46 CHA
estates at an estimated cost of MRs 56 million, based upon the experience
gained under the project.
4.05      Public transport. MW reported that while the introduction of
traffic signals has succeeded in regulating traffic flow, they sometimes
create extra delay to motorists because the signals are not vehicle
actuated and cannot cope with the erratic nature of traffic. During the
mission it was observed that at peak hours in the city center, traffic
policemen turn off the signals, preferring to regulate the traffic by hand
signals to reduce congestion. The congestion observed was also caused by
excavation works in progress throughout the city center. Traffic flow has
increased at a rate of 5 percent per year since 1980. This is as a result
of more vehicles on the road and a drop in the real price of petrol, i..e,
MRs 32 per gallon in 1982 to MRs 35 in 1989.
4.06      Solid waste management.  Port Louis is still experiencing
difficulties with managing solid waste. In July 1988, Port Louis engaged
the services of a private contractor to collect refuse in a small area of
the city center. This is apparently operating successfully and it is
proposed to continue the approach in 1989. It was reported that this
method would also be used in the CHA estates in the future.  In 1988 ODA
financed a study of solid waste management for the whole country. The
study identified deficiencies of the existing solid waste management to
include: (a) lack of basic operational data and financial information; (b)
inadequate provision of waste storage receptacles (although a reasonable
standard of refuse collection); (c) irregular collection frequencies and
low productivity of labor; and (d) a very low standard of waste disposal
with possible health hazards. The study, currrently under review by GOM,
recommends, inter alia, maintaining waste collection as a municipal
function but advocates putting waste disposal under MLG.
B. Covenants
4.07      GOM's record in meeting the requirements of key covenants in the
loan agreement is summarized in Annex 5. All covenants were met with the
following exceptions.
a)   S. 3.06: The land of La Tour Koenig ... shall be brought under
the jurisdiction of an appropriate authority for purposes of
maintenance and taxation.



- 17 -
The Municipality of Port Louis agreed to take over the area in
question in July 1984 subject to conditions concerning the financial
liability they would incur in doing so. More specifically, the
Municipality required, inter alia, that they be not held responsible
for repaying any part of the IBRD loan for the project and that
estimates of expenditure for running the estate be covered by
additonal central government grants. GOM and the local authority
never reached agreement on this issue.
b)   S. 4.05t GOM to ensure that direct beneficiaries and occupiers
of all estates under CHA pay water and sewerage charges according to
existing tariffs.
At the present time responsibility for water and sewerage tariffs are
split between CWA and MW respectively. As has been recounted above,
CWA has installed water meters on those properties whose owners have
requested a water connection within the four CHA estates included in
the Project.
c)   S. 4.03: GOM to provide incentives for the proper improvement
and maintenance of rental housing.
A committee of central government officials '-t up to review the
Landlord and Tenants Act (1960) made its recommendations to
Government; however, no decision has been made on the matter.
4.08      In June 1986 all three matters were brought to the attention of
the Cabinet by the relevant Minister but no action h&5 been forthcoming.
C. Reaching the Target Group
4.09      Of the 573 plots serviced at La Tour Koenig, 400 were allocated
to households in the low-income group. This exceeded the target of 60
percent established at project appraisal by 9 percent.
4.10      During the course of the housing and construction credit program
mounted by MHC, two of the important parameters governing its
administration were revised after consultation and agreement with the Bank.
The revisions were designed to boost lagging performance in reaching the
targeted low-income households with housing finance.
4.11      Firstly, the maximum income limit defining the low-income group
was increased on three occasions from its initial level of MRs 1,200 per
month. After a first increase to MRs 1,600 per month agree' in April 1982
and a second increase to MRs 1725 in November 1982, MRs 2,000 was agreed in
April 1983 on condition that this level be maintained until at least June
1984. These increases sought to maintain the pool of income-eligible
households to those earning below the median household income under
conditions of rising salaries and wages. The second parameter to be
adjusted was the proportion of the number of loans to be allocated to the
low-income group. This was reduced from the originally increasing scale
(50Z in FY81, 55Z in FY82 and 602 in *FY83) to a flat 40 percent for each
year of the program. The relaxation of this constraint was justified on



- 18 -
the grounds that the effective demand as measured by the number of
qualified applicants for housing finance from the low-income group was less
than the supply offered by the MHC program. The net effect of these
changes allowed MHC to easily reach and indeed exceed the revised targets.
4.12      Over the period July 1, 1980 to June 30, 1987, 55 percent of all
housing and construction loans were allocated to households in the low-
income group compared to the revised target of 40 percent agreed in April
1982. Low-income lending absorbed MRs 105 million or 39 percent of the
funds.   The extent to which victirs of the recent cyclones were assisted
under the program was impossible to judge because loan applicants were not
asked whether they had suffered losses because of the cyclones. There Is
some evidence that a small percentage of low-income borrowers were
permitted to borrow in excess of the maximum loan where they could produce
a member of the extended family who would serve as a guarantor and agree to
remit a portion of the monthly payment directly to MHC.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. MHC Finances
5.01       MHC now manages in excess of 10,000 mortgage loans.  There is
some indication that the administrative capacity to handle this volume of
work is being stretched, mainly because staff turnover during recent years
has been quite high. The corporation is carrying out a recruitment
exercise to fill 24 vacancies including the post of Accountant and two
Assistant Accountants. Further, the corporation is increasing its use of
computers to process accounting and statistical information. The last
annual report published was for FY84, but the year-end accounts for FY85
and FY86 have been completed and duly audited.  The year-end accounts fQr
FY87 are being completed, leaving those for FY88 to be drawn. The delays
can largely be attributed to the introduction of the computer and to
turnover of qualified staff.
5.02      MHC counted 225 outstanding applications for loans yet it
continues to process and approve on the average more than 70 applications
per month.
5.03      It is noteworthy that since the implementation of the project,
which considerably increased its lending capacity, MHC's self-financing
revolving fund has increased from about MRs 10 million to MRs 20 million
and its reserves (retained profits) from MRs 28 million to over MRs 70
million, as illustrated in Annex 4.
5.04      In ancicipation of reduced flows of public funds into the
corporation, MHC is attemptirq to mobilize private resources for investment
in housing through a number ot savings instruments. In November 1988, a
form of home-ownership savings plan was introduced to encourage regular
monthly saving by individual depositors. By February 1989 nearly 3,000
accounts had been opened within four months.



- 19 -
B. Affordability
5.05      At appraisal it was determined that the least expensive solution
at La Tour Koenig, consisting of a serviced plot and a one-room core, would
be affordable to households earning MRs 870 per month (732 of the
population) assuming 25 percent of income devoted to housing. As a result
of the redesign of the site in 1J82 which created larger plots, the price
of the basic plot measuring 7m by 17.5m doubled from the estimated cost of
MRs 4,000 to MRs 9,358 (1980 prices). The cost of the minimum contractor
built core house increased from MRs 16,800 to MRs 18,972. Consequently the
minimum shelter solution was affordable by a head of household earning MRs
1,200 per month, assuming he could afford to devote 33 percent of his
income to payment of housing. It appears therefore that the least cost
solution was only affordable by those households at the masimum income
ceiling in 1980. By the time allocations occured in November 1983, the
maximm income ceiling had been raised to Rs2,000 per month. The 1983
price of the minimal core house solution was affordable by a household with
an income of Rsl,500. Annex 6 illustrates the estimated and actual
affordability of two of the contractor built housing solutions on basic
plots at La Tour Koenig.
5.06      The actual price of the maximum core house on a basic plot was
affordable only to those households in the top 25 percent of the income
distribution in 1980, i.e., those earning MRs 1,600 or more. Because of
the increase in the income ceiling by 1983, the price of the maximum house
was affordable by households earning MRs 2,000 per month.
C. Cost Recovery
5.07      It was anticipated at appraisal that about 73 percent of all
costs would be recoverable directly from beneficiaries through loan
repayments and service charges to relevant authorities. The remaining 27
percent was to be recovered through central government revenue. In fact,
owing to the shift of expenditure away from items such as non-recoverable
technical assistance and items with weak cost recovery mechanisms such as
refuse and traffic management, the pruportion recoverable by GOM fell to
only 17 percent. This left the bulk of cost recovery, Rsl9O million, to
borrowers from MHC. Annex 7 gives a breakdown of the proportion of
recoverable costs in comparison to those anticipated at appraisal.
Municipal rates in Port Louis have not been increased since 1980. It is
the responsibility of central government to update the valuation roll upon
which the municipality can then levy a rate.
D. Terms of Loans
5.08      The actual terms of housing loans correponed closely to those
anticipated at appraisal. Low-income borrowers are repaying MHC at the
rate of 12 percent per year over 15 to 20 years. Other borrowers are
repaying at 14 percent over the same period.



- 20 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
6.01      The institutional arrangements adopted for project coordination
and implementation corresponded to those outlined at appraisal. The
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development was the lead Ministry within
which was placed the project unit which consisted of the Project
Coordinator. The Coordinator was also the head of the National Physical
Development Unit until its transfer to MHLE in 1987.
6.02      A separate unit was established within the MHLE to coordinate
the implementation of the La Tour Koenig housing scheme. It was headed by
the Chief Town and Country Planning Officer who was designated project
manager assisted by a second Town Planner who was designated the project
co-ordinator. The rest of the team included 3 architects, 3 engineers. 2
part time quantity surveyors, a finance officer and a sociologist.
Virtually the whole of MHC's staff was involved in the housing credit
component of the project.
B. Overall Achievements
6.03      A major goal of the project was to strengthen institutions for
urban planning, development, and maintenance. The project sought to
establish and implement sound and replicable practices for provision of
utilities, urbanized land, and housing in existing as well as new urban
areas, and in so doing also reduce central government budgetary support for
these purposes.
6.04      Housing institutions.  MHLE and MHC gained an enormous amount of
practical experience in planning, designing and managing low-income shelter
programs in urban areas. Unfortunately the experience gained has not been
put to use in replicating the successful aspects of the project. In was
not until 1989 that MHC began a project at Le Hochet, just north of Port
Louis, which is based on the concept of minimal but improvable serviced
plots and one- and two-storey core housing. The team assembled in MHLE for
La Tour was disbanded in 1984 and has not executed a similar project since.
6.05      National Physical Development Planning.  The objectives
associated with the NPDP, although ambitious, were considered by the Bank
to be central to the success of the project as a whole in that they sought
the establishment of institutional capacity to control land devlopment
throughout the country.   Although the Unit received periodic assistance
from seconded officers of government and consultants, it was never staffed
on a permanent basis. During project implementation, attention focussed
briefly around three studies:
(i)  Spatial Investment Strategies..The consultant study analyzed
four possible spatial development scenarios for Mauritius and
recommended that the continvled growth of the Port Louis - Plaine
Wilhelms' urban complex be advocated.



- 21 -
(ii)  Administrative and Financial Study.  The main recommendations
were the introductions of elections at District levels,
endorsement of the idea for island-wide valuation of non-urban
land leading to revenue generation from rural areas and an
emphasis on government decentralization.
(iii)  Development Authority Study.  The consultant report recommended
the establishment of a parastatal development authority
responsible for integrated industrial investment planning and
land management. This idea supported the creatior. of the highly
successful Mauritius Export Development and Investment Agency
(MEDIA) which was established by legislation to coordinate the
development of several industrial estates throughtout the
country.
The recommendations of these three studies were reviewed by MEPD and a
consolidated set of proposals was submitted to Cabinet for approval. In
September 1986, after reviewing the submission, Cabinet established a
Ministerial Committee to once again study the issue of land resource
management.
6.06      Despite numerous studies, the all-important National Physical
Development Planning Unit was not permanently established and little
activity occurred after 1985. A proliferation of Government Commissions,
committees, task forces and individual experts, both Bank- and non Bank-
financed, became involved in a process which became more and more
convoluted over time. A combination of factors worked together to
frustrate the continuation of the NPDP exercise. These factors included
(i) GOM reluctance to use loan funds to finance technical assistance; (ii)
a general confusion about the precise nature of the institutions being
proposed and often contradictory recommendations made by the different
studies; (iii) fundamental disagreement between MPED and MHLE as to who
should be responsible for the exercise; and (iv) the establishment of a
Commission on Local Government to review the whole situation. As a result,
the NPDP was never formalized as a policy of Government.
6.07      In 1986 GOM requested French technical assistance to review the
whole matter, fully 10 years after the original French-assisted MATIM study
launched the concept. In March 1987 they presented their conclusions which
recommended a further package of technical assistance to redo the process
with a view to including measures for implementation and control. Since
that time, with the transfer of the initiative from MEPD to MHLE after the
election in 1987, further efforts to remount the exercise have come under a
proposed project for the promotion of development with greater
consideration to issues of environmental management.
6.08      Urban Policy.  In addition to the central objective of
establishing a national physical development planning capacity, the project
attempted to achieve important policy goals in several other urban
subsectors.
6.09      GOM did redirect housing investment by increasing the amount and
availability of credit accessible to the poor. Moreover, this was achieved



- 22 -
without significantly increasing the total amount of housing investment in
Mauritius. Annex 9, taken from the National Development Plan 1988 - 1990,
shows how in real terms investment in all housing increased from MRs 788
million in 1984 to MRe 817 million in 1987, a rise of 3.6 percent.   The
same table also shows that housing investment decreased significantly when
expressed as a p.,rcentage of GDP and of GDFCF. That is, it decreased from
6.12 to 3.5t and 28.51 to 12.62 respectively. The lower profile accorded
to housing investment as a fraction of GDP is the result of the overall
increase in GDP and not as a result ot polloies enacted to put a brake on
housing investment itself.
6.10      GOM did reduce direct government involvement in housing
construction but has not reduced the CHA housing construction program.
Annex 8, also taken from the NDP 1988 - 1990, shows the continued decline
in public sector funding for MHC. The corporation is seeking private
sector resources and may in the future be able to issue debentures if the
need is felt and as soon as its present financial situation can be
clarified in the eyes of potential investors. Funding levels for CHA are
still significant and are earmarked for further upgrading of existing
estates and construction by force account of new housing for low-income
home ownership on privately owned plots. In addition GOM has not
eliminated over time central government subsidies to housing. Both MHC and
CHA have housing programs with elements of grant funding and lending below
market interest rates to low-income borrowers.
6.11      It cannot be said that GOM provided immediate relief, through
housing construction and repair loans, to cyclone victims. Nor can it be
said that it has established procedures for future cyclone relief programs.
GOM has, with SFD assistance, updated and rehabilitated some existing urban
services especially those damaged by cyclones and has plans to continue to
do so. The 3-year delay between appraisal of the project and the
allocation of plots at La Tour precluded any significant effect on the
housing situation of victims of the 1979 cyclone.
6.12      While GOM did improve efficiency of traffic flow in the urban
areas for a while, it did not appear to improve service standards of public
transport throughout the island nor did it strengthen transport management
planning and implementation capacity of the NTA and TMU in the MW.
6.13      The objective of valuing non-urban land in the country was to
determine if significant revenue for local authorities could be generated
through property tax in the three district council areas. The idea was
unpopular from the start. Government claimed there was a lack of skilled
manpower to undertake the valuation task since most of the qualified
valuers were occupied with processing protests lodged by urban council
residents following the revaluation of their lands. Several months elapsed
before the necessary legislation could be amended to bring the valuation of
district lands under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. In the
final analysis the exercise was never carried out.



- 23 -
VIZ. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
A.  Appraisal Analysis
7.01      In calculating the economic rates of return (ERR) at appraisal
for the La Tour Keonig and MHC Housing Credit components it was anticipated
that direct benefits would be derived from: (a) the provision of least cost
services to a population of 3,700 people by 1983 in the La Tour Keonig
development; (b) provision of basic shelter on a self-help basis to a
population of 19,500 people throughout the country; (c) and employment
stimulated by the construction of 3,700 houses and the servicing of 740
plots. In addition, it was anticipated that 15,850 people living in
selected CHA estates would benefit from improved access to water supply and
sanitation.
7.02      The following costs were included in the calculation of the ERR
at appraisal:
(a) site development costs, including land, design and
supervision, on-site infrastructure, allocable primary infrastructure and
physical contingencies; and
(b) value of house construction loans.
The valuation of benefits was based upon estimates of rental values of
newly created properties made under the project. Based on the above cost
and benefits, the ERR for the La Tour Koening and MHC housing credit
program, comprising 70 percent of total base costs, was estimated at 12
percent at appraisal.
7.03      The major non-quantifiable benefits that were to accrue to the
economy of Mauritius included the following: (a) improvement in traffic
flow through the Port Louis - Curepipe urban corridor; (b) higher standards
of refuse collection and disposal; (c) better public transport throughout
the country; and (d) improved land use management.
B. Ex-Post Reevaluation
7.04      In calculating the ex-post ERRs essentially the same methodology
employed at appraisal was used. The actual costs were brought to 1982 base
prices. Benefits for the La Tour Keonig and MHC components were based on
imputed values of rents for plots and dwellings respectively. The imputed
rental values of the project housing components were based upon information
provided by MBC. The benefits came on stream in 1984 when the first plots
at La Tour were allocated. On the basis of these assumptions, the ex-post
weighted average economic rate of return of the final La Tour and MHC
components, representing about 83 percent of total project costs, has been
calculated at 11.7 percent compared to appraisal estimates of 12 percent.
7.05      The La Tour Koenig project component, despite serving 22 percent
fewer households than planned at appraisal, had one important demonstration
effect regarding policies; it introduced full cost recovery. The estimated
ERR of the actual scheme has been calculated at 11.1 percent.



- 24 -
7.06      The housing credit program implemented by MHC was successful in
that it demonstrated the ability of a small efficiently run body to put
housing credit in the hands of over 6,000 households over a period of seven
years. The ERR of this component was calculated at 12.0 percent.
7.07      Other benefits of the Project, more difficult to quantify.
included improved solid waste collection, if not disposal, and better
regulated motor traffic, if not less congestion. CHA estates have been
improved in their ability to meet the requirements of water and sanitation
needs of their inhabitants. Cost recovery for water supply in CHA estates
has I proved. Legislation governing the development of residential plots
was amended to facilitate the self-help extension of dwellings based on
attached core housing of the type first proposed in 1979.
7.08      Additional longer-term benefits are expected to accrue to the
economy of MHiritius through the groundwork laid for the establishment of
an institutional basis for long-term rational land management.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
A. Conclusions
8.01      The Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project was the first
IBRD-assisted project in the urban sector in Mauritius. It has clearly
demonstrated the viability of an appreach to delivering urban services
which are affordable to the majority, though not the poorest, of urban
residents with a minimum of public subsidy. The scheme at La Tour Koenig
helped ease the housing shortage in Port Louis and, in fact, revealed a
large pent-up demand for serviced plots of the type offered under the
scheme. It represented the country's first attempt to implement the core-
housing principle and is the first housing development to provide community
facilities as an intlegral part of the project. The housing credit program
provided the first window of opportunity for low-income borrowers to
develop residential plots and to rebuild and extend their existing
dwellings.
8.02      The project was less successful in its institution-building
objectives largely because of the concern by the government of the day to
limit public expenditure under conditions of structural adjustment.
B. Lessons Learned
8.03      Public Participation.   The successful development of shelter at
the La Tour Koenig scheme can be attributed in part to the fact that the
needs of the beneficiary population were defined in some detail through a
process of consultation involving the evaluation of the public's reactions
to demonstration houses built by the project implementation unit. Results
from the survey were fed back into the design process, giving rise to
modified plans for plot layouts and core house units. At the same time,
care must be taken to ensure that information from the market is not used



- 25 -
to skew the project away from achieving some of the social goals which
Government may have established at the outset. There is some evidence to
support the contention that, as a result of the survey, the project
standards were raised beyond those affordable by the original target group
earning Rs870 per month in 1980.
8.04      Administrative Arrangements.  Implementation of some aspects of
the project was frustrated by a lack of agreement on issues of
geographical, technical and administrative jurisdiction. The fact that La
Tour Keonig has not been annexed by Port Louis has been the principal cause
of poor maintenance of infrastructure services. It also caused the delayed
development of community and commercial facilities in the complex. The
disagreement about the proper ministerial locus for the NPDP contributed to
the non-implementation of this component of the project. The often fuzzy
boundaries between the subjects of separate consultant studies concerning
the NPDP created a level of disorientation which contributed to the
difficulties in reaching resolution on important policy issues. These
lessons point to the necessity of either resolving key "turf" issues before
they contribute to delays or devising a process that should lead to such a
solution.
8.05      Timing of Co-financing.  The project benefitted from two sources
of external finance: IBRD and SFD. The judicious selection of distinct
components assigned to each source of co-financing minimized the delay
suffered by the whole project created by delays in establishing the SFD
credit. Parallel financing of distinct components within a single project
is the preferred strategy, especially if additional sources of finance are
identified after the primary source becomes effective.
8.06      Housing Credit.  The principles for allocating housing credit to
project beneficiaries were not clearly defined in one important respect:
whereas IBRD meant to stipulate a maximum total loan amount for each
borrower as a function of affordability irrespective of the source of the
housing credit, there is evidence that MHC may have allocated loans larger
than this maximum total but only claimed reimbursement from IBRD in the
amount of the "maximum" loan. The result was that some borrowers were
given access to loans larger than they would have received (or possibly
afforded) had IBRD been the only source of funds being invested in the
program.   Future projects should ensure that criteria for allocation of
housing loans are clearly documented and understood by the relevant
implementing agencies.
8.07      Technical Assistance.   As under other projects in Mauritius,
the Borrower was reluctant to use relatively expensive IBRD loan funds to
finance expatriate technical assistance. Of the total of $1.1 million
provided in the loan only $24,000 was actually spent. GOM pursued grant
sources of assistance to meet the needs for expatriate expertise with a
high degree of success. This suggests that when preparing future projects,
IBED should anticipate the aversion to committing loan funds for this
category of expenditure and encourage and assist the Borrower to identify
alternative, less costly sources of technical assistance.



- 26 -
8.08      Least Cost Solutions.  The borrower decided not to use IB3L loan
fuwas to fMnance the procurement of vehicles and equipment for the
muielpality of Port Louis owing to the availability of a less expensive
lb of credit tied to procurement in the country offering the line of
credit. The goods actually received performed less satisfactorily than
planned because of defects in their manufacture, a lack of spare parts and
inadequate local servicing capability. Had the borrower used marginally
more expensive financing that allowed a free choice of source of supply,
the perfoimance of the goods procured could well have given better value
for mney than that offered by the least cost solution.
8.09       merpency Proiect Lending.  The preparation of the project was
accelerated in an attempt to bring speedy assistance to households which
lost their houses to the cyclone which struck the island in 1979.
Assistance was to have been in the form of new serviced residential plots
and housing loans. The design of the La Tour Koenig scheme which emerged
from the shortened preparation period proved to have problems which
required a major redesign after project appraisal. In the final analysis,
plots at La Tour Koenig were not allocated until late 1983, nearly four
years after the storm, and far too late to be of assistance to the victims.
Applicatioc forms used by MHC to solicit requests for housing finance did
not Include questions on whether the applicants were cyclone victims. In
future, decisions to expedite project preparation on the grounds of an
national disaster should include a realistic assessment of whether the
benefits achieved by quicker processing will really accrue to those
Intended to be assisted.



hID= 2
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Contract Data
Contract description              Contractor    Bid Value  Appraisal  Final        Start   End   Procure
estimate   Amount     Date    Date  Method
a----------------------------------------------------------------__---_------__----------_----------------_-
LaTour Koenig (by IBRD)
Site clearance                    Omnicom           394.500                392,500 Oct 81  Apr 82 LCD
Off-site water                    Bhunjun & Sons    923,111                 923.111 Sep 81  Sep 84 LCD
On-site infrastructure            Bhunjun & Sons   4,261,127              5,165.445 Mar 82  Sep 84 ICB
Core house construction (336 units) Allied Builders  7,939,157            8,467,389 Jun 82  Dec 84 ICB
Primary school                    DWC              1,207.855              1,317,777 Jun 82  Oct 83 LCB
Creche                            DUC              1,527,535              1,234,904 Mar 83  Dec 83 LCB   s
CHA Housing Estates (by SFD)
Upgrading of services (M168)      DWC             23,200,000  14,818,000  21,979,757 Jul 83  Jan 86 ICB
Traffic Management (by SFD)
Traffic signals (Ml)              Silec         FF1,245,805             FF1,237,805 Sep 84  May 86 ICB
Ireland Blyth     100,000                100,000
Civil works for signals (M3/Lot A)  Prime Construct  1,820,845            2,106,491 Sep 84  Apr 86 LCB
Civil works for signals (M3/Lot B)  Bhunjun & Sons    575,483               562.152 Oct 85  May 86 LCB
Other civil works (M4)            Bhunjun & Sons  1.026,469                 787.992 Nov 86  Feb 87 LCB
Additional traffic signals        Silec            FF975,261              FF975,261 Jul 86  May 87 Reg
Ireland Blyth      80,500                 80,500
Civils for additional signals (M3A) Bhunjun & Sons  1,653,795             1,413,554 Nov 86  Jan 87 LCD
Weighbridgelmark4ng equip         MECOM             531,171                 501,171 Oct 84  Apr 85 LCB
Traffic conesabollards            Blanche Birger     38,983                 38,983 Oct 84  May 85 LCB
Towing unit                       Ireland Blyth   URL39,667              UKL39,667 Aug 85  May 86 LCD
19,059                 19,059
--------------------------_-____--__.__---_-------__-_--________------------ _------___----_------_------
Note: All amounts in Rupees except where shown        -



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
MAURITIUS
URBAN DEVELOPMENT & REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETIOII REPORT
Total Project Costs
Current R'OOO's           Current US$000
Appraisal   Actual       Appraisal   Actual
A.   LaTour Koenig
On-site infrastructure               6,132       5.165          810          415
Off-site infrastructure              2,936         923          388           74
Community facilities                 3,138       2,651          415          213
Land                                 2,450       2,140          324          172
14,656      10,879        1,937          874
B.   Home Improvement & Construction
Loans/construction of houses       90,000      182,139       11,889       14,229
Equipment                              300         160           40           13
90,300     182,299       11,929       14,242
C.   Upgrading of CHA Estates
On-site infrastructure             10,617          n/a        1,403         n/a
Off-site infrastructure              4,261         n/a          563         n/a
14,878      21,979        1,966        1,732
D.   Public Transport Im(provement.
and Traffic Management
Civil works                          1,345       4,868          178          383
Equipment                            7,210       6,511          952          512
Training                               308           0           41            0
GRNW bridge                          1,800           0          238            0
10,663      11,379        1,409          895
E.   Solid Waste Management
Renovation & Construction
of workshop                           743       1,096           98           80
Vehicles & equipment                 3,742          47          494            4
Public education & training            550           0           73            0
5,035       1,143          665           84
F.   Engineering & Supervision
La Tour Koenig                       1,450       2,101          192          153
Upgrading CHA Estates                2,200         379          291           30
Traffic engineering                    988         396          131           31
and planning
4,638       2,876          614          214
G.   Technical Assistance
Island-wide Transportation          2,600          240          343           19
National Physical Development        2,010         259          266           24
Plan Implementation Study
Island-wide Valuation               3,300            0          436            0
Assistance to MHC                      200           0           26            0
8,110         499        1,071           43
Sub-total A to G                          148,280     231,054       19,591       18,084
H.   Contingencies
Physical                            2,918                       385
Price                              33,916                     4.480
TOTAL                                     185,114     231,054       24.456       18,084



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual IBRD Loan Allocations (US$)
Category                        Estimated            Actual            Remarks
Allocation Percent Disbursement Percent
1 LaTour Koenig
Development works          805,000         5?    676.770         5Z
Eng & supervision           95.000         12    138,776         12
2 Island wide valuation        350,000         2?          0         0  Never executed
3 Housing credits            5,900,000        39? 11.355,705        922
Ext training                  20,000         02          0         O  Never executed
4 CHA rehab                  1,450,000        102          0         0Z  Funded  by SFD
Eng & supervision            170,000         12     34,726         0?  On-board
consultants only
5 Transport civils             150,000         12          0         0?  Funded by SYD
Transport equipment          760,000         5Z          0         02  Funded by SFD
transport study              600,000         42          0         02  Funded by SFD
6 SW workshop                   70,000         0Z     80,146         12
SW equipment                 400,000         3?      3,525         0?  Used Indian funds
SW training                   60,000         0?          0         0?  Locally funded
7 NPDP consultants             210,000         1S     23,671         0Z  Used grant-funded
consultants
8 LaTour electrical            280,000         22          0         0S  Charged to Category 1A
Eng & supervision             30,000         0?          0         0?  Not required
9 Water                        370,000         2Z     81,563         12  Bal in Category IA
Eng & supervision             50,000         0Z          0         02  Not required
10 Refunding advance            150,000         1Z     13,963         0?  Prep done by MOH
11 Unallocated                3,080.000        21?                    0?
TOTAL                     15,000,000       100? 12,408,845       1002



ANNEX 4
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS HOUSING CORPORATION
Key Performance Indicators
FY81    FY82    1Y83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FYs8
Total Assets   227.680 267,100 321,700 378,420 401,140 434,250 471,790 525,150
Total Mortgage
Assets         172,512 206,541 245,507 302,319 338,333 367,765 390,588        N/A
Reserves        28,320  31.240  35,690  40,550  48,610  57,020  65,040  73,040
___________________________________________________________________________- __________--
Units completed    443     568      850     812      831     744      732     669                                °
Debt/equity
ratio              4.9     4.6      4.4     3.9    3.55    2.97    3.49       N/A
Interest Spread   2.66    2.92      3.7    3.94    3.68    3.67    3.01       N/A
So---urce------------------(Al--------costs----------------------t----ousa---nds-------
Sources fMUC (All costs in Rs thousands)



- 31 -
MAMJITUtS
URBA REHMUTATION A DEVEUPENTPRJC
ruJEt COUPLxTIUx RIURT
Casl lnce With KeY tovenant
Section    Covenant                  w        Actual      Rmarko
S 3.01    amN to maintain project                         In coepilon
(b)      Coordinator in  EP
3 3.01    GeVtoentrInto                       iay 01      AlI Ires_ment
(c)      subsidlary loan agrew-                          *i    b Vy 1
ase witth UKed, CEa, CyA
and PL
s 8.02    CO1 to use qualified                            In copi tance
consultanat. or tfeas-                         eXCep for land
bility studies, trans-                         valuation which
port studies, deign                            was not carried
of rehabilit tion                              out
works  lad voluOtion,
training
S 8.08    Brlng LaTour land under                        Not achloved buo
proper jurisdiction                            being incoporoted
in future assess-
tion xercise
S 8.07    Carry out on long-torm              Dec.84      Done with French
management of solid                            technical
wast                                           assistance
88 .08    G0" to require UN to                            In coewplano;
estblislo LaTour                               unit disbanded In
Implementation unit                            In 1964 at the en
Of project co_go-
not
S 4.08    COV to provide                                  Not achioved
incentive for tsprove-
m at/maintenane of
rental houing
S 4.04    CON to carry out study                          Study dons by
of urban traffic and                           NTA but no
parking logislation and                        legislative
Introduce necessary                            changes
amendenta
S 4.06    Wu0 to ensure occupants                         In compliance
of CHA estates pay                             with water but
according to existing                          not with s_ere
water andsr
tariffs
S 4.06    GOV to do study on       Oct. 82                Done but no
swerge system costs                            actlon takes
and exchaonge vie on
Propose  tariff changs



- 32 -
ANNEX 6
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Affordability of La Tour Keonig Contractor Built Core Housing;
Estimate and Actual (1980 prices in Rupees)
Core + 1 room    Core + 2 rooms
(Type 3)         (Type 6)
-----------------------------------
Estimate Actual3/ Estimate Actual3/
Price of "BASIC' plot       4,000   9,565   4,000   9,565
Price of core house        16,800  18,972  24,800  30,830
-------------------------------------
Total plot and construction 20,800  28,538  28,800  40,395
Less 102 deposit 1/         2,080   1,000   2,880   1,000
Balance to Loan            18,720  27,538  25,920  39,395
----------------------------------------
Monthly mortgage charge 2/    197      303     273      434
Estimated monthly
service charge 6/           52       70      72      100
Total monthly charges         249      373     345      534
Minimum required income 4/    996   1,131   1,380   1,617
-------------------------------------
Percentage of HH who
can afford 5/               67       40      46       25
------------------------------------------------------------__
1/ MHC reduced deposit to flat Rs1,00O per borrower owing to lack of
available savings among low-income members.
2/ Appraisal estimates at 12 percent over 25 years, actual over 15 years.
3/ Price of land and core deflated by 26.5 percent to 1980 prices.
4/ Appraisal estimates based on 25Z income to housing exependiture,
actual on 332.
Si 1980 income data.
6/ Based on 3? pa of value of land and buildings.



ANNEX 7
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost recovery (Rs 000)
Project Component
Actual         Actual costs recovered by
Absorbed by ----------------------
Apprsl   Actual   Central      Plot     Loan     Rates &
Cost 1/  Cost     Government   Charges  Payments tariffs
and MHC      to MHC   to MHC   to PLM/CW
A. LaTour Koenig
1. Land                        2,450    2,140          500    1,640
2. On-site infrastructure      8,386    5,165        1,093    3,039             1,033
3. Off-site infrastructure     3,929      923          923        0
4. Community facilities        4,205    2,651        2,651
B.  Housing credit               111,975  182,299                        182,299
C. Upgrading CHA Estates
1. Stormwater drainage         6,041
2. Water & sewerage           14,096   21,979       19,781                      2,198
D.  Transport & Traffic           12,918   11,379       11,379
E.  Solid waste                    5,672    1,143        1,143
F.  Engineering & Supervision      5,467    2,876        2,588      288
G.  Technical Assistance           9,975      499          499
TOTAL                            185,114  231,054       40,558    4,967  182,299    3,231
Actual distribution of burden                            17.55Z    2.15Z   78.902    1.402
Appraisal distribution of burden                         27.462    0.482   60.48Z    0.072
----------------------------------------------------------------
Notes: 1/ Inclusive of contingencies



ANNEX 8
MAURITIUS
URBAN REEHAILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJSCT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
*Physical Planning, Environment & Housing Public Expenditure (1985 - 1990)
(Re m current prices)
Sub-sector                        Total     Actual  Revised        Projected
Cost  ----e-------    -------  ------------------
Up to                                    Total
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88   FY89  FY90  FY88-90
Mauritius Housing Corporation       517   251    72    69    57    43    25   125
Central Housing Authority           293    22    49    36    42    60    84    186
Physical Planning & Environment     414     0      0      0   125   140    149   414
TOTAL                             1,224   273   121   105   224   243    258    725
Sources NDP 1988 - 1990, Vol II, HEPOi, Table III.A. p77.



q                                                                                 ANNEX 9
URBAN REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Housing Investment, 1984 - 1990
(Re million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------_-__-----__---.----------
Total housing 1nvesmunt
at current prices                 740      730      775     850      980      958      979
Total housing investment
at constant 1986 prices           788      752      775     817      888      860      890
GDFCF at current prices         2,595   3,100   3,890   5,090   6,465   6,730   7,770
GDFCF at constant
at 1986 prices                  2,957   3,252   3,890   4,850   5,600   6,048   6,350
w
GDP at factor cost             12,050  13,880  16.450  19,085  21,480  24,450  27,600
Housing investment as
percent of GDP                    6.12    5.3Z    4.72    4.42    4.62    3.92    3.52
Housing investment as
percent of GDFCF                 28.52   23.52   19.92   16.72   15.22   14.22   12.62
Soure:__P_988-19V               E    Tl__onIee
Source: NDP 1988 - 1990, Vol I, MEPD, Table XIX.1 Housing Investment, 1984 - 1990, p153.



- 36 -
ANNEX 10
MAURITiUS
URBAN REHAILIUTATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Re-evaluatlon
La Tour Koenig Land Servicing
*                    O~~~~~~~uss  a  12.OX
Sub-tot*l
Year    Land     Intfre-   Housing  Overhead Subtotal Constant O01       Total    Imputed  Not
structure                            1982              Costs    Rents    benefits
Prices             (Const)  (Const)
1980        0        0         0      826      328      399         0      399               (399)
1981    2,140        0         0      328    2,498    2,734         0    2,734             (2,734)
1992        0    8,0           0      826    8,381    8,881         0    6,881             (8,831)
1988        0    3,262         0      326    8,678    3,467         0    3,457    1,093   (1,484)
1984                                             0        0       it'S     190    2,063    1,868
l9ss5                                                              95      195    2,063    1,868
1986                                                              19S 105    2,088    1,868
1987                                                              195      195    2,068    1,968
1988                                                              195      195    2,083    1,888
1989                                                              195      195    2,063    1,s8s
1990                                                              195      195    2,063    1,880
1901                                                              195      195    2,063    1,888
1992                                                              195     ls    2,063    1,88s
1998                                                              195      196    2,063    1,868
1994                                                              195      195    2,063    1, 8p
1995                                                              195      195    2,063    1,888
19o6                                                              195      195    2,063    1,888
1907                                                              195      19S    2,063    1,888
Internal Rate of Return   =    11.11
WHC Housing Credit
uess*        18.O0
Year    Land     Intra-   Housing  Overhead Subtotal Constant 0OA        Total    Imputed  Net
structure                            182               Cost    Ronts    Benoefts
278820                   PrIces             (Const)  (Const)
1981        0        0    84408       344    347S2    88528              88526         0   -38528
1982        0        0    48576       486    49062    49062         0    49062      5161   -48901
1983        0        0    41228       412    41840    40232         0    40232    12448   -27785
1984        0        0    48788       437    44173    41861         0    41861    18682   -22729
1985        0        0    J4568       385    89841    84991         0    34901    25192    -9799
1986        0        0    818w       318    31952    27882         0    27882    80961      3079
1987        0        0    38280      388    386e3    82248          0    82248    85706      8480
1988        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1989        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1990        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1991        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1m          0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1998        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1994        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
196         0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
196         0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
1997        0        0                           0                  0        0    41448    41448
Internal Rate of Return  =      12.0X



- 37 -
Notes on Assumptions Used to Calculate Rate of Return
1. La Tour Koenig Land Servicing
The analysis includes the full cost of the land purchased by MHC from DBM.
Infrastructure costs included the costs for the removal of bolders on the
site, installation of water supply and sewer systems, roads and storm
drains, telephone conduits, electrical reticulation and street lighting,
and engineering and legal fees.
Overhead costs were assumed to be equal to R91,305,OOO as reported by MHLE,
spread equally over 4 years.
Maintenance costs were assumed to be 2 percent of total infrastructure
costs.
The benefits stream has been determined on the basis of: 573 plots with an
average imputed rental value of Rs300 per month. The plots came on stream
at the following rate: 1983 - 345; 1984 - 228.
All costs and benefits are expressed in 1982 prices.
2. MHC Housing Credit Program
Costs were based on the value ofloans appoved each year increased by
Rsl,OOO per borrower to include beneficiaries deposits. The assumption was
made that all loans were fullly disbursed within the calendar year during
which they were approved.
MHC overheads were assumed to be 1 percent of the value of loans approved.
Average rental values were assumed to be Rs550 per month in 1982 prices.



g~ ~~            ~~~ '  *                      *                    a  
Si  ----------------------------
:  ---  -  -   -  - -  -  -S                               
-S~ ~~~ -,   ner~ .-                            -               S i     -            
--------------    i---------- -                                   ----8
---------                   -----     -----------                  ---
31                                                                tv~~~~~*
53    .i. .                             I              Pa:5
0 .     0.
I                                                                          w
-------------------------------------------__ _ _ _ _  
Ii-
'-S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~S
a:
*                                                                          5 V
-,                                                S                        e.g
!I    :     I        N  
* is;
OS~                              8E*  -   I



a& a m & a a " m     a a        I 
a                                 to ~~~~~~~~~I
ml                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~ I
I                               U~~~~~~~~~
iII



- 40 -                     ATTACHMENT
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO BE ADDRESSED TO THIE DIRECTOR
Ctntrat A)ouoing Autboritp
M A U R I T I U S
VII.. No. nose-" 4I.m s   464-56336
YM. ADORS6S - MOUSING
Cuft nar. CHAL 124 Vol.2
YOU4R ASP.                                                    I44ILL
26th April, 1990
Mr. Alexander Nowicki,
Division Chief,
Operations Evaluation Department,
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development,
Iternational Development Association,
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Norwicki,
Ae: MAURITIMU - Urban Rehabilitation and Develop_ent Project
(Loan 1926-MAS)
PlroJect CouDpletion Report
Thank you for your letter of the 16th March on the above
subject.
I have the honour to submit the following coments:-
(a) The execution of works in the four concerned CRA Housing
Estates (vis. La Cure, Roche Bois, Vallijee and Borstal)
and subsequently improvement of sewerage works to Vallde
des Pretres CHL Housing Estate was done under contract
by the Development Works Corporation under the supervision
of Ministry of Works, and CRA was not directly involved
therein.
(b) Following the implementation of the upgrading of infra-
structure in the above Housing Estates, no major complaints
have been received in respect of services on those Housing
Bstates. However, a few isolated cases of sewerage
problems have been reported in respect of Roche Bois and
La Cure Housing Rstates.
In case you need any further information, please do not
hesitate to contact me.
Yours sincerely,
(D. Seewooruttun)
Director



