Document of                       FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-2906-MAS
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MAURITIUS
FOR URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT
November 18, 1980
Ti doeumemt bh  a resticted disIbution a id my be usd by rcipeub ody l h per fmance d
thir diica dutids. itB oets may ot oher wie be dIled withou Wol flak mwd            I.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979               August 1980
Unit                  Mauritian Rupee (Rs)   -   Rs
US$1                  Rs6.40                  -   Rs7.60
Rsl,000      -        US$156.25               -   US$131.58
Rsl,000,000  -        US$156,250.00           u  US$131,578.90
The Mauritian rupee is pegged to the SDR, at a rate set on
October 23, 1979 of RslO - SDR1.
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1-Rs7.57)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CEB         Central Electricity Board
CHA         Central Housing Authority
CWA         Central Water Authority
DBM         Development Bank of Mauritius
MEPD        Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MH          Ministry of Housing, Lands and Town & Country Planning
MHC         Mauritius Housing Corporation
MPL         Municipality of Port-Louis
MW          Ministry of Works
NPDP        National Physical Development Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Mauritius
Beneficiaries:       Mauritius Housing Corporation (MHC), Central Electricity
Board (CEB), Municipality of Port Louis (MPL), and the
Central Water Authority (CWA).
Amount:              US$15.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayable over 17 years including four years of grace.
Interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend part of the proceeds of the
loan to MHC, CEB, CWA and MPL over 17 years, including
four years grace, at 10 percent or the Bank of Mauritius
discount rate, whichever is higher on the date of signature
of the subsidiary loan--agreement.  MHC would relend to
final beneficiaries for periods up to 25 years at rates
giving an average spread of at least 2-1/2 percent.
Inflation in Mauritius, at present about 15 percent, is
expected to moderate, so that these rates can be considered
acceptable.
Project              The project will assist the Government to implement a change
Description:        in its policy for providing housing in the public sector,
including a reduction in overall Government expenditure
on housing, and redirection from building rental units at
subsidized rates to provision of housing credit for lower
income groups. The project will also strengthen institu-
tions responsible for urban planning, development and
maintenance. The project has the following main compo-
nents.
(a)  Land development for housing and community facilities
at La Tour Koenig;
(b)  Housing credit for home improvement and construction
including housing at La Tour Koenig;
(c)  Rehabilitation of housing and urban services in poor
areas damaged by cyclones;
(d)  Upgrading of urban services particularly solid waste
collection and disposal;
(e)  Improvement of public transport and traffic manage-
ment.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:               The project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost:
US$ million
Local  Foreign    Total
Land development (La Tour Koenig)             0.9      1.0       1.9
Housing improvement and construction          4.8      7.1      11.9
Upgrading of housing estate services          0.7      1.3       2.0
Public transport and traffic management       0.3      1.1       1.4
Solid waste management                        0.2     0.5        0.7
Engineering, supervision and
technical assistance                        0.4     1.3        1.7
Baseline Costs                           7.3    12.3       19.6
Contingencies (a) Physical               0.2     0.2        0.4
(b) Price                 1.6     2.9        4.5
Total Project Costs                      9.1    15.4       24.5
Financing Plan:
Government of Mauritius                       5.0     --         5.0
and other local sources
Bank                                          3.0    12.0       15.0
Cofinancing                                   1.1     3.4        4.5
9.1    15.4      24.5
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
IBRD FY             1981     1982      1983     1984       1985
Annual              1.7      3.2        6.0      3.6        0.5
Cumulative          1.7      4.9       10.9     14.5       15.0
Rate of Return:      17 percent, based on land development and housing
components.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3100-MAS, November 10, 1980
Map: IBRD 15143



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MAURITIUS FOR AN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Mauritius for the equivalent of US$15.0 million to help finance urban
rehabilitation and development. The loan would have a term of seventeen
years, including four years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per
annum. Part of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Mauritius
Housing Corporation and other public agencies, on terms described below,
paragraph 53. The Saudi Fund for Development is considering providing
parallel finance equivalent to about US$4.5 million for the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report on the economy of Mauritius (No. 2962 MAS) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 22, 1980. Recent economic developments
are summarized in the ensuing paragraphs. Country social and economic data
sheets are provided in Annex I to this Report.
3.        Mauritius is a small, densely populated island, where arable land,
the principal natural resource is mainly devoted to sugar production for
export. The basic problems of the economy stem from its small size and largely
monocultural character, and the consequent heavy dependence on imports. Because
of the scarcity of land, sugar offers a limited potential for future growth of
output and employment. Moreover, periodic cyclones and substantial swings in
the world sugar price have a destabilizing impact on output and balance of
payments, which is fortunately moderated by the access to the preferential EEC
market for most of the country-s sugar exports.
4.        During most of the 1970s, pragmatic policies and favorable inter-
national price trends enabled the Government to achieve rapid growth and
development. In its first two five-year plans for social and economic
development (1971-75) and (1976-80) the Government embarked on a program of
export-oriented production. Generous fiscal and other benefits were provided
to induce local entrepreneurs and foreign investors to establish industrial
units in an export processing zone (EPZ); tourism, and tea cultivation mainly
for the export market, were also actively promoted. Aided greatly by the
world sugar boom, this strategy met with success. The increase in real
incomes following the sharp improvement in terms of trade during 1972-75
stimulated demand and helped sustain very high rates of investment in industry,
housing and public works. As a result, the production in the manufacturing
sector (excluding sugar refineries) expanded rapidly, albeit from a narrow
base. The construction sector and power generation, also, recorded unusually
high growth rates, while there was some further development of agriculture
other than sugarcane cultivation. Trade, transportation and services benefitted,
in turn, from the spread effects of expanding primary and secondary sectors.



Real GDP consequently increased at an estimated average annual rate of 9.3
percent between 1970 and 1977. Rapid economic growth was accompanied by
increasing employment; the number of registered unemployed dropped to about
15,000 in 1977, or half of what it was at its peak in 1971.
5.        The policy emphasis on economic growth and diversification, however,
did not lead to the neglect of major social concerns.  The Government under-
took substantial expansion of health care, education and other social benefits,
with the result that Mauritius is at present well endowed with regard to basic
needs coverage,and only about 12 percent of the population lives below the
absolute poverty level. At the same time, successful family planning and
population programs checked the dangerous trend towards progressive over-
population. The annual population growth rate was only about 1.1 percent
in the early 1970's although it subsequently started to rise to 1.8 percent by
1979, largely because women born in the 1950's had entered the peak fertility
age group.
6.        In recent years, however, Mauritius has been encountering severe
economic problems. The annual rate of GDP growth slowed down to about 4
percent during 1977-79. With the slackening of economic expansion, employment
growth tapered off in these years. The number of registered unemployed has
been on the increase since 1978, and by the middle of 1980 accounted for a
little over 9 percent of the labor force. Although falling after 1976, partly
because of worsening terms of trade, the gross domestic savings rate remained
at more than 24 percent. As very high investment rates, averaging about 39
percent during 1976-79, were maintained the resource gap widened to 13.4
percent of GDP by 1979. However, there was a shift from private investment
aimed at raising commodity production to private housing and social infra-
structure investments. The already large share of building construction in
gross capital formation rose to nearly half.
7.        Balance of payments difficulties triggered by the collapse of the
world sugar boom in 1976 were further aggravated by high investment rates,
excessive growth of consumption expenditures and rising production costs in
the wake of the continued increase in real wages. Restrictive fiscal policies
could have facilitated the adjustment of the economy to the post-boom situa-
tion, but expansionary budgets and the consequent rapid credit expansion
greatly strained the already weakening balance of payments position. The
Government's selective demand management measures and the introduction of
stricter credit control did not succeed in preventing the drain on reserves
and growing external indebtedness. Finally, to stem the deterioration in the
balance of payments the Government devalued the rupee by 30 percent in SDR
terms in October 1979 and adopted stabilization measures supported by a two
year IMF standby of SDR 75 million. Due to devastating cyclones and other
reasons, such as the sharp rise in oil prices, the implementation of the
stabilization program ran into difficulties. Subsequently in September 1980
the standby was replaced by a new one year arrangement for SDR 35 million.



-3-
8.        By 1978, the manufacturing sector had lost much of its momentum,
largely because of the slowdown in the growth of EPZ industries which recorded
only a modest increase in output over the previous two or three years. Its
dynamism was undermined by rising real wages without compensating improvements
in productivity, selective non-tariff barriers affecting textile exports,
difficulties in recruiting labor for multiple shift working and the poor
functioning of the port and inland transport due to disturbed industrial
relations. The profitability of the sugar industry was also squeezed by
rising wage costs and depressed world sugar prices, and it had to cope
with scarcity of farm labor and growing absenteeism. In the agricultural
sector the progress of import substitution was impeded, among other things,
by insufficient extension efforts. Recently, however, there has been a notice-
able improvement in labor relations and port facilities are being operated
much more efficiently. Devaluation combined with wage restraint should
significantly raise the return on investment in EPZ industries and restore
the profitability of sugar production.
9.        With the emergence of increasingly severe and persistent budgetary
problems fiscal performance deteriorated sharply after 1976/77. Stemming
initially from the steep drop in the growth rate of tax revenues due to*
the termination of the sugar boom, the growing deterioration of the fiscal
situation was aggravated by continued rapid increase in government expendi-
tures, which reached about 40 percent of GDP in 1978/79. Recurrent expendi-
ture rose due to sharply increasing government employment, the higher cost of
subsidies and social security benefits, and accelerated investment spending,
particularly on social infrastructure including housing, educational facilities
and health services. A number of revenue measures were taken by the Government
to augment budgetary resources, but they proved to be insufficient to offset
the momentum acquired by public expenditure in the period of high sugar export
prices. The overall budget deficit, as a consequence, increased from Rs 339
million or 9.1 percent of GDP in 1975/76 to Rs 953 million or 15.8 percent of
GDP in 1978/79. The fast growing fiscal imbalances in a period of worsening
terms of trade thus became a major source of the present economic difficulties.
10.       For 1979/80, a stabilization program was adopted by the Mauritian
authorities following the devaluation of October 1979, supported as it was by
a standby arrangement with the Fund. The main economic measures to be taken
were cutbacks in expenditure, the freezing of food subsidies, generation of
additional revenue resources and less than full cost of living increases in
wages and salaries for the year. The Government, which had earlier begun to
counter relentless pressures for substantial wage increases, was able to hold
wage increases to levels that represented a decline in real terms. On the
other hand the government could not attain the targetted reduction in the
financing gap as delays occurred in implementing economy measures and unforeseen
expenditures were occasioned by the destruction and damage wrought by the
cyclones.



- 4 -
11.       The budget for the fiscal year 1980-81, which adopted measures
broadly similar to those contained in the September 1980 standby agreement,
provides for across the board tax surcharges and discretionary levies, and
foresees some decline in the financing gap relative to GDP. The post-budget
cost of living increases were also limited, for both public and private
sectors, to levels well below the likely increase in consumer prices, and
this despite further reductions in food subsidies. On the whole, the measures
proposed in the budget for 1980/81 were sufficient to reverse the previous
trend towards rapid growth of government consumption and recurrent expenditure
on social services. Despite a certain increase in capital expenditure in real
terms, there has also been a noticeable decline in the relative importance of
outlays on social infrastructure.
12.       A sizeable proportion of the Government-s annual budget deficits,
about 48 percent on average for the three years ending in 1978/79, was financed
by the domestic banking s-stem. Net domestic credit more than doubled between
1976 and 1979 largely on account of the steep increase in net claims on
Government. Declining foreign exchange reserves did, however, greatly dampen
the impact of rapid credit expansion on money supply, which went up by only
30 percent over this period, while the annual rise in consumer prices was kept
under 14%. The rise in consumer prices following the devaluation, however,
was much larger than expected due to acute scarcity of locally produced
foodstuffs caused by the adverse weather in the summer of 79/80. Over the
nine-month period ending in June 1980, consumer prices rose by 38 percent.
The rate of inflation is, however, expected to subside somewhat during the
second half of 1980 with the return to normal weather.
13.       Mauritius  severe balance of payments difficulties after 1975 were
brought about by a combination of diverse unfavorable influences. Export
earnings showed only a modest increase because of depressed sugar prices
and rising costs as well as market access problems of EPZ industries. On
the other hand heavy budget deficits and the resulting credit expansion
generated excessive demand for imports. The current account deficit more
than trebled from US$36 million in 1976 to US$140 million in 1979, the latter
being equivalent to nearly 14 percent of GDP. Despite recent sharp increases
in sugar prices to new record levels, the short term balance of payments
outlook has been severely hurt by the sharp fall in sugar production during
the 1980/81 season as well as by rising import prices. The effect of the
cyclones on the sugar output, affecting mainly the supply in excess of the EEC
quota which is sold on the world market, is expected to cause Mauritius a loss
of about US$25 million in export earnings during 1980 and 1981.
14.       Since 1977, Government's policy was to maintain an essentially open
economy. It attempted to finance growing payments imbalances through substan-
tial foreign borrowing on commercial terms and recourse to IMF facilities. It
also sought to restrain the demand for imports by tighter credit policies and
imposed higher duties and selective restrictions on imports of luxury goods.
It drew SDR 11 million (US$12.8 million) in 1977 under the Compensatory
Financing Facility, obtained a first credit tranche standby of SDR 8.0 million
or US$9.7 million, in 1978 (which was utilized only in 1979) and two Trust



5-
Fund Loans amounting to SDR 9.1 million (US$11.0 million). Then it drew SDR
40 million or US$51.9 million (in two equal credit tranches in December 1979
and May 1980) under a two-year IMF standby arrangement dated October 1979,
which was superseded by a new one-year arrangement of SDR 35 million (US$45.9
million) under which it drew SDR 15 million (US$19.7 million) in September
1980. In addition a Euro-dollar loan amounting to US$37 million was raised in
1978, and another of US$50 million the following year. Despite these borrowings,
gross foreign exchange reserves fell substantially, from US$166 million at the
end of 1975 to only US$47 million (less than four weeks imports) by September
1980.
15.       Gross disbursements of external and externally guaranteed loans
averaged US$40 million annually during 1975-79. In 1978 and 1979 the level of
disbursements reached an average of US$78 million, or four times as much as in
1977, due, for the most part, to foreign borrowing on commercial terms. The
external public debt thus rose sharply from US$71 million at the end of 1977
to US$152 million at the end of 1978 and US$227 million at the end of 1979.
About 13 percent of the outstanding disbursed debt at the end of 1979 was held
by the IBRD and 8 percent by IDA. The debt service ratio went up from just 1
percent in 1976 to 4 percent in 1979.
16.       Prospects for further growth of the economy will depend, to a large
extent, on the success of stabilization measures in restoring internal and
external financial equilibrium as well as on the future evolution of world
sugar prices and terms of trade. Given the size, structure and the resource
base of the economy, its expansion will depend above all on continued indus-
trialization oriented towards the export market. The rate of growth over the
next few years could average about 4 percent, and, with further diversifica-
tion of the economy, might rise further during the latter half of the 1980s.
17.       The debt service ratio could rise very rapidly in the future, partly
as a result of the harder conventional terms on which a sizeable portion of
external debt was contracted. As such, greater fiscal discipline combined
with restraint on imports of non-essential consumption goods and unproductive
investment, such as residential construction, will be necessary in the years
ahead to maintain both the size of the external debt and the burden of ser-
vicing it within manageable limits. The Government, aware of the problem,
has scaled down the investment and growth targets of the 1980-82 Plan, to
levels likely to be consistent with the production potential of the economy
and a tolerable debt service burden. It also envisages stricter fiscal
policies emphasizing expenditure control, lower levels of real wages and
social benefits, and new revenue measures, including a general sales tax.
18.       External financing requirements in the coming years will be much
larger than in the past because of the time needed to reduce the resource
gap, the necessity of rebuilding foreign exchange reserves and the expected
continued rise in import and energy prices. Substantial assistance will be
necessary to finance current imports for the industrial sector to sustain
output growth.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       To date Mauritius has received five IDA credits and nine Bank
loans (including one loan on Third Window terms) totalling US$100.5 million to
help finance projects in industry (US$28.5 million), utilities (US$22 million),
infrastructure (US$18.6 million), agriculture (US$9.2 million) and education
(US$22.2 million). The most recent loan approved by the Executive Directors
was for the fifth Development Bank of Mauritius Project, US$6.0 million,
on December 27, 1979 (Number 1789-HAS). IFC made a loan in 1971 for hotel
construction.
20.       The Bank's program of lending to Mauritius will continue to concen-
trate on supporting the Government's strategy of economic diversification and
employment creation through the development of industry. Growing industrial-
ization has resulted in a greater need for infrastructural improvements, and
we intend, therefore, to participate in projects designed to improve and
expand public infrastructure and related institutions. A second rural develop-
ment project is under preparation for FY1982; and following the recent Govern-
ment decision to strengthen the Central Water Authority's financial position
by allowing an increase in water tariffs, we are also processing a water
supply project for the same year. We also expect to support the Government's
educational reforms through a third education project, depending on develop-
ments affecting Mauritius' program of technical education and training.
21.       In view of the current economic problems which Mauritius is facing,
due in part to the instability of sugar prices, but also to recent cyclone
damage, the Government has asked the Bank for non-project assistance. The
Government, in consultation with the Fund and the Bank, has undertaken programs
of stabilization and institutional and economic reform. Discussions are now
underway as to the extent to which the Bank can assist. The Government
also asked the Bank to organize a Consultative Group for Mauritius. The
first meeting was held in the Bank's European Office on October 21 and 22,
1980.
22.       Implementation of the education, power, industrial and port projects
is generally satisfactory. The rural development project has just been cor-
pleted, with mixed success in achieving its objectives. On the other hand,
the tea project, also just completed, encountered problems caused by falling
international tea prices, inadequacies in project management and equipment,
and lack of interest from laborers to work on tea plantations and from small-
holders to take over tea plots. The profitability of the tea industry in
Mauritius has declined to the point where it is now doubtful whether a fun-
damental change in the industry, including the phasing out of some tea opera-
tions, can be avoided. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations in Mauritius as of September 30, 1980 as well as notes on the
status of ongoing projects.



23.       The only audit report so far prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department (No. 2101 of June 20, 1978), concerns the first line of credit made
to the Development Bank of Mauritius (DBM). The report showed that the
project had made a valuable contribution to development of DBM as a sound
institution, capable of taking a lead in the industrial development of the
Mauritian economy.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
24.       Although its economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, Mauritius
is relatively extensively urbanized: 50% of the population live in five
municipalities designated as urban. These figures underestimate the extent
of urbanization as most of the population has access to urban and social ser-
vices. The principal differences between urban and rural are the financial
and administrative responsibilities of the Municipalities and the District
Councils which run these areas (para. 36).
25.       Land and Labor.  In view of the importance of sugar to the economy,
sugar land is at a premium; appropriation of land for competing use must
accordingly be kept at a minimum. Sugar production is now close to the limits
of production potential and cannot absorb further labor. Indeed, increasing
mechanization will reduce demand for labor. Unemployment is now about 23,000:
new jobs must be created mostly in the manufacturing sector and will impact on
urban areas. Thus both for employment and land use purposes, the careful
coordination of spatial, urban and economic development strategies, and of
management and institutions is of fundamental importance.
26.       Income and Poverty.  Average family monthly income in Mauritius
is US$476 with a median of US$165 in 1980 prices. Income distribution is
highly skewed: the top 9% receive almost 40% of income. The relative poverty
level is considered to be family monthly income of about US$130, which includes
a third of all households. Government programs and measures such as rent
control and consumption subsidies on rice and water have done much to mitigate
the worst effects of a poor income distribution. Nutrition and health
standards are high, and universal, free primary education has led to more
than 90% literacy and a skilled labor force. With the aid of an active family
planning program, and the high standards of social services, Mauritius has had
remarkable success in reducing fertility and population growth.
27.       Housing.  Mauritius invests heavily in housing (about 12% of GNP).
Production of about 6,000 units per year compares to an estimated demand
of about 9,000 units. The bulk of housing is financed out o" private savings
or commercial bank loans, which are inaccessible to the poor. Poor families
who do acquire land usually cannot obtain credit for home improvement or
extension, so the rate at which they can build is limited by their current
saving capacity rather than their debt servicing capacity. Furthermore, rent
control has distorted the housing market, so that new development has been



- 8 -
for high-income housing, not for the poor; it has also led to deterioration of
the housing stock. Government is aware of the need to amend rent legislation,
and has appointed a ministerial committee to prepare legislation. It has
agreed to take steps to provide incentives for improvement and maintenance of
rental housing, and to exchange views with the Bank on legislative proposals
to this end (Loan Agreement Section 4.03).
28.       Mauritius is subject to periodic devastation from cyclones, and was
severely hit in 1960, 1975, and 1979-80; these cyclones caused considerable
damage to less sturdy housing. Past housing programs for cyclone victims
provided small numbers of finished and serviced houses at heavily subsidized
rents. The programs have been extremely expensive for the government, ineffi-
cient, and production has been well below targets. Of an original 1975
program of 8,000 houses, only 2,000 were completed by end-1979, and another
4,000 may be completed by October 1981. Reform is needed in the method of
assisting cyclone victims, to allow them access to housing finance, so they
can repair existing houses or build new ones.
29.       The main public agencies responsible for housing are the Central
Housing Authority (CHA) and the Mauritius Housing Corporation (MHC). CHA
was set up in 1960 to supervise housing policy and to build low-income
housing, but the task it was subsequently given of building public housing
for cyclone victims prevented it from developing a policy role. It is totally
funded by the government and represents an unacceptably large financial
burden. The Government has recently moved to reduce housing subsidies through
a policy of sale of CHA units rather than rental, and towards a policy of
providing unsubsidized loans through MHC. Government policy on public housing
provides for a reduction in overall Government expenditure on housing, in-
cluding a phased reduction in CHA's operations, and involves strengthening MHC
as a housing financial intermediary.
30.       MHC was established in 1963 as a parastatal organization and reports
directly to the Ministry of Finance. It has broad powers for offering banking
services and engaging in housing construction. It is an efficient organization
and has an excellent record of collections. However, it has served mainly the
middle-and higher-income market. The Government intends to expand its opera-
tions, particularly for lower income borrowers. Its policies, administration
and financial structure are described in paragraphs 60-62.
31.       Water and Sewerage.  Almost all the population has easy access to
piped, potable water. About 50 percent of the population are now served by
house connections, accounting for about 85 percent of domestic consumption;
the balance by hydrants. The Central Water Authority (CWA) provides water,
which until 1979 was heavily subsidized. In 1979 and 1980, the Government
raised tariffs substantially, as a first step toward pricing water services
on sound financial and economic bases. Recurrent expenses will no longer be
subsidized and, with additional tariff adjustments over the next few years,
CWA's net operating revenues should begin to meet amortization and interest
costs and contribute to new investments. There has been considerable public
dissatisfaction with the new tariffs; while the principle of charging economic
tariffs has now been accepted, the most appropriate method of charging is still
actively being sought.



- 9 -
32.       Mauritius has two public sewerage systems, serving about 20 percent
of the total population, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of
Works (MW). There are several smaller sewer systems serving housing estates,
resorts and institutions. The standards of individual facilities serving the
remainder of the population are generally satisfactory. Although sewerage
and sanitaticn are heavily subsidized, the Government intends to revise both
the level and the method of charging over the next two or three years, with
a view at least to covering current expenditure. It has agreed to carry out,
by October 31, 1982, a study of investments, operation and maintenance costs of
the sewerage system and to exchange views with the Bank on a proposed tariff
structure designed to reduce service subsidies (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
33.       The collection and disposal of solid waste is the responsibility
of local authorities and is generally inadequate. Port Louis, with large
resident and daytime populations, and a concentration of commercial and
industrial activities, has the most serious problem: only 50% of its garbage
is collected. Accumulation of the remainder poses environmental hazards and
hinders services such as drainage, roads and sewerage. The Government will
carry out a study in 1981, with French technical assistance, on the long term
management of solid waste throughout the island. On completion of this study,
the findings will be reviewed with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
34.       Roads.  The island is served by a well developed road network with
about 1,100 miles of roads radiating from Port Louis to all parts of the
island. Traffic on this network is concentrated in the Port Louis-Curepipe
corridor where up to 20,000 vehicles per day use the roads. Congestion is
mainly limited to this corridor, being worst in the city of Port Louis. Road
improvements for Port-Louis and for the Phoenix-Curepipe conurbation are also
being studied. Outside the corridor, traffic drops quickly and roads are not
unduly congested.
35.       Public transport is provided by nine privately-owned transport
companies, a number of small operators (each with one to three buses) and
the National Transport Corporation. Of the licensed fleet of 1,200 buses,
only 60% operate daily because of breakdowns, inadequate maintenance, driver
absenteeism and excessive age of the bus fleet (averaging over nine years).
Lines of credit have been made available by India and Japan for procurement
of buses. Other principal problems of the transport system include inadequate
regulation, poor coordination of routes, and lack of policies for fare strlc-
tures. There are long waits and queues during peak periods, overcrowding at
existing terminals, inconvenient or costly transfer arrangements, and poor
labor-management relations. Poor public transport is quoted by many industrial
companies as a reason for difficulty in meeting labor requirements.
36.       Urban and local government is administered through five municipal
councils and three district councils.   Only the municipal councils have
powers to levy tax, but reluctance to raise taxes and rapid inflation have
eroded the contribution of local taxation. Rent control holds down property
values and hence tax revenue. The district councils depend entirely on
central government grants, as they are not allowed to levy property or better-
ment taxes, despite the fact that much of the most productive land uses- sugar,



- 10 -
tourism, industry and high income housing - are in their areas. In 1979/80
only 20 percent of local expenditures were covered by local tax income,
the remainder coming from central government. Grants to local authorities
amounted to US$13.5 million, less than 2 percent of GNP, and not enough to
provide a satisfactory level of services. Tax reform is needed to allow both
higher locally-generated expenditures and to reduce central government deficit
spending. In 1978, legislation for a rural tax was enacted but not implemented
mainly because the properties in the district council areas had not been valued.
A revaluation of property in the municipalities has just been completed with
the assistance of expatriate valuers: it is now proposed to continue the
exercise to cover the whole island, financed under the proposed loan.
37.       Future Development.  Continued population growth, declining house-
hold size, and employment needs will place heavy demands on the urban sector
for the next decade. Current forecasts indicate demand for urban land to be
about 1,200 acres per year - an expansion in area by about 50% of the exist-
ing urbanized land over the next 10 years. Almost all the expansion must
occur outside the currently designated urban areas. A National Physical
Development Plan (NPDP), has been produced by consultants: it makes well-
thought out proposals and is a good basis for future urban development.
Recently adopted in principle by the Government, it calls for concentration
of new urbanization in three major and six minor centers around the island.
Procedures to implement NPDP have not yet been devised. However, to
monitor and implement a coordinated strategy for urban growth, employment
location and local administration, in accordance with the NPDP, a National
Physical Development Unit would be established in the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development. It would undertake studies on priorities for
development, finance, planning and on attainable annual levels of imple-
mentation and employment, leading to development proposals. Mechanisms for
assembly and development of land need to be established since current insti-
tutions are neither designed to be nor are capable of coordinating investment
or implementing developments on the scale required.
Major Issues in the Urban Sector
38.       The scale of future urbanization which is bound to occur, controlled
or uncontrolled, and the Government's inescapable need to reduce its overall
deficit, have important effects on the urban sector. They will require new,
specific policies towards urban administration and finance. These include
the need to develop improved land management and release mechanisms to build
a public developer capacity, to reduce overall investment in housing while
directing investment towards poorer income groups, to change the legislation
controlling rents both for commercial and residential property, to find
alternative financing mechanisms for urban services and to distribute them
more evenly around the island, to make improvements to the public transport
system, and to improve administration of the different services provided to
the urban sector.



- 11 -
39.        Government is already embarked on reforms in all these areas:
-    in housing:  by redirecting the public housing programs
towards channelling credit to the poor, rather than
construction of subsidized housing, and by a review of
rent legislation.
-    public utility pricing:  by a commitment that public
utilities will finance their operations through revenue,
exemplified by recent increases in power tariffs, and
by current efforts to reform water tariffs.
-    on land:  it proposes to establish a Land Bank Agency
with power for acquisition and assembly of land.
-    on public transport:  it has recently set up a National
Transport Authority charged with regulation, planning and
control of public transport, and expanded the publicly-
owned National Transport Corporation to provide more
efficient bus services in the heavily travelled Port
Louis-Vacoas area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
40.        The project stems from a Government request made in 1977 for
assistance in housing and urban transport. The Bank carried out an analysis
of the urban sector and identified possible areas of assistance. This was
followed by feasibility studies in housing, infrastructure and transport which
were carried out by government agencies with the aid of consultants. During
project preparation, Mauritius was hit by a series of severe cyclones between
December 1979 and March 1980, which caused heavy damage to crops, housing
and infrastructure. Over one thousand families were made homeless. Sewerage
and water supply in low-cost housing estates were badly damaged, causing
outbreaks of disease including typhoid. The Government asked the Bank for
urgent assistance to finance costs of rehabilitation, in particular in housing
and urban services. It was decided that the best means of responding to this
request was to advance and to expand the urban project then under preparation.
An advance from the Project Preparation Facility was approved in March 1980
to speed project preparation; the project was appraised in May 1980. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in October 1980. The Government negotiating
team was led by Mr. M. Baguant, the Financial Secretary and included the
Honorable E. Francois, the Minister of Housing. A supplementary Data Sheet
is included in Annex III and a Staff Appraisal Report dated November 10, 1980
has been distributed. A map is attached.
41.        Project Objectives.  The project has been designed in the context of
the Government's intention to revise its policies for public sector provision
of housing. These changes, now being implemented, involve reducing the



- 12 -
overall Government expenditure in housing, and redirecting the emphasis of
Government activity in the sector from building rental units, at subsidized
rates, to providing housing credit in a manner that will make it available to
lower income groups. The project will support these policy changes. It has
the following additional objectives:
(a) to strengthen institutions responsible for urban planning,
development and maintenance, and for implementation of the
National Physical Development Plan;
(b)  to rehabilitate housing and urban services in poor areas
damaged by cyclones;
(c) to improve urban services, including public transport and
solid waste collection.
Project Description
42.       The project would have the following main components:
(a)  Land development at La Tour Koenig for housing and community
facilities;
(b) Credit for housing rehabilitation and improvement, and for
new construction, including housing at la Tour Koenig;
(c) Upgrading of urban services in four low-income housing
estates seriously affected by cyclones, and of solid
waste collection and disposal; and
(d) Improvement of public transport and traffic management.
43.       Land Development.  Approximately 25 acres of land, south of Port
Louis and adjacent to the industrial estates of Coromandel (which was con-
structed with IDA finance (Credit 411, June 1973) and Plaine Lauzun, would
be serviced for housing development. About 740 serviced plots would be
marketed, 60 percent of which would be reserved for low-income families.
These plots would be randomly allotted to qualified applicants if, as
expected, demand exceeds supply. Provision would also be made for a primary
school for 600 pupils, a kindergarten and a creche, a market and other public
facilities. Since La Tour Koenig is outside a municipal area, it would be
necessary to ensure that the development is within the jurisdiction of an
appropriate authority so that services can be maintained and rates charged
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06). This component would provide valuable
experience for future land development schemes.
44.       Home Improvement and Construction Loans.  A line of credit would be
made available to MHC to allow it to extend its low-income lending operations
and to make increased credit available for home repair and reconstruction for
cyclone victims, for housing extension, and for construction of new housing.
Cyclone victims would initially be given priority in allocation of funds.
About 3,700 loans would be made over a four-year period. MHC would adopt



- 13 -
lending criteria that will ensure that 50 percent of its lending in FY81, 55
percent in FY82, and 60 percent in FY83 would be lent to low-income families
earning US$160 a month or less 1/. Average loan size would be US$3,300 with
a maximum of US$6,600 for all income groups. MHC would use criteria for
selecting borrowers, and a standard agreement, satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
45.       Upgrading of CHA Estates.  Services are to be rehabilitated and
upgraded in four CHA estates near Port Louis, where despite heavy mainte-
nance expenditures, water and sewerage services are poor. During the recent
cyclones there were many sewage overflows, which probably were the cause of
outbreaks at that time of typhoid and other disease. This component will
rehabilitate damaged and substandard sewer lines and some water mains, and
improve stormwater drainage. Over 3,000 households will benefit.
46.       Public Transport Improvement and Traffic Management.  To improve
the efficiency and service standard of public transport, a study of public
transport would be carried out leading to recommendations on improved public
transport management, routing, investment, pricing policies and on the
relationship between public and private transport. The component would also
include (i) traffic management measures to reduce congestion, especially in
Port Louis, and (ii) a feasibility study and detailed engineering for replace-
ment of an old bridge at Grand River North West, which is a bottleneck to
traffic entering Port Louis.
47.       Existing parking regulations are inadequate and cannot be enforced.
The Government would review these regulations and take action to amend traffic
ordinances to allow for parking charges, and to set up a force of traffic
wardens to enforce regulations (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).
48.       Solid Waste Management.  The project would assist the Port Louis
municipality to implement a more efficient system of solid waste collection,
which was designed during project preparation. It would provide a modest
number of simple vehicles, equipment and maintenance facilities, which are
required to meet immediate needs. The component was designed taking into
account the longer-term studies to be carried out in 1981 (above, paragraph 33).
49.       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be provided:
(i) to the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development (MEPD) to establish
a National Physical Development Unit and to prepare implementation of the
National Physical Development Plan (paragraph 37), (ii) to the Ministry of
Works for the island-wide transportation study (paragraph 46), (iii) to the
Ministry of Housing, Lands and Town and Country Planning for island-wide
property valuation (paragraph 36), and (iv) to MHC to train extension workers
to assist in self-help/self-managed housing construction.
Project Cost Estimates
50.       Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$24.5
million, of which the foreign exchange component would amount to US$15.4 or
63 percent. A cost table is given in the loan and project summary. Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent on all infrastructure and
1/   In 1980 prices.



- 14 -
building works. No physical contingencies have been included on housing
credit, equipment, training, engineering and technical assistance. Price
contingencies have been compounded annually on base costs at 15 percent per
annum for 1981 and 1982, and 10 percent for 1983-84. Foreign elements of
price contingencies are based on Government and consultants' estimates of
inflation in the neighboring countries from where goods and services are
normally procured. Estimates for local inflation are based on Bank's
estimates of inflation and have been revised upwards for 1983/84. On the
basis of these considerations, total contingencies are estimated at US$4.9
million or 25 percent of base costs. No import duties or other taxes are
levied on Bank financed projects.
51.        Engineering and architectural services for La Tour Koenig, rehab-
ilitation works for CHA estates, and the feasibility study for the bridge,
technical assistance for the NPDP studies, traffic management, the island-
wide transport study and land valuation are estimated to cost about US$1.9
million. This has been estimated on the basis of an average professional
man-month cost of about US$5,000 (US$4,500 for local consultants and US$6,500
for expatriate consultants) and a total of 383 man-months. Consultants and
professional staff with the necessary qualifications and experience are
available in Mauritius at this cost.
Project Financing
52.        The proposed Bank loan would finance US$15.0 million (61 percent
of total cost, representing 78 percent of the foreign cost), co-financiers
US$4.5 million (19 percent), and the Government and other local sources
US$5.0 million (20 percent) of the total cost. Total external financing
would cover 100 percent of the foreign costs and 45 percent of the local
costs. Local cost financing by cofinanciers is. justified because the economy
faces increased expenditures and loss of revenues resulting from a series of
severe cyclones. Effectiveness of an agreement with a cofinancier would be a
condition of disbursement on the housing credit component, for which the
cofinancier's funds are expected to be mainly used (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
53.        The Government would make the proceeds of the loans (Bank and
co-financing) and its own contributions available to various government
ministries and parastatals to cover the cost of components to be implemented
by them. Part of the proceeds of the loan would be used directly by the
Government, while the remaining proceeds would be onlent to MHC, CEB, CWA and
MPL. The Government would enter into subsidiary loan agreements with these
institutions, satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of disbursement on the
respective components (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1). The term of onlending
would be at an interest rate of 10 percent or the Bank of Mauritius discount
rate, whichever is higher at the time of signature of the subsidiary loan
agreement, and for a period of 17 years including 4 years grace.
54.        MHC would onlend to final beneficiaries over a period of up to
25 years. The rates of interest it would charge would fluctuate with the
structure of interest rates in Mauritius. They would be calculated so as to
maintain an average spread of 2-1/2 percent above its average cost of capital.
MHC would not charge less than 1 1/2 percent above the Bank of Mauritius
discount rate, which was 10 percent at time of appraisal. Thus, low-income
families can borrow at 12 percent and middle-and high-income families at 14



- 15 -
percent. This rate of interest is in line with inflation (15 percent in
1979/80, expected to decline in future years) and with market rates in
Mauritius. It will be changed in accordance with them. Any changes in MHC's
lending policies would be reviewed with the Bank to ensure that its future
viability as a financial intermediary is protected (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05 and Schedule 5).
Project Execution
55.       Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would
rest with the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development, which has
appointed a Project Coordinator to monitor progress, to provide regular
reports to the Government and the Bank, and to ensure that the project is
executed satisfactorily. Monitoring and evaluation would be a modest exercise
geared to gathering essential management information, analyzing
practical problems, measuring project impact on beneficiaries, and forming an
information base for future projects.
56.       The Ministry of Housing would implement the La Tour Koenig compo-
nent, through contracts with CHA and/or local contractors, and would carry out
the island-wide valuation of property with the assistance of consultant
valuers. MHC would hold the La Tour Koenig land while it is being developed,
process all applications and administer housing loans, enter into mortgage
agreements with beneficiaries, and collect repayments. The Ministry of Works
would supervise the execution of rehabilitation work in the CHA estates
(except water supply, which would be supervised by CWA), and the traffic
management component. It would also supervise the bridge feasibility study
and, through the National Transport Authority, the island-wide bus study. It
would carry out all traffic improvement works by force account. The Port
Louis Municipality would execute the solid waste management component. The
project would be completed by June 1984. Mauritius has considerable skilled
manpower, which should be able to execute the project, with some expatriate
assistance and training in engineering, transport management, and finance.
Procurement
57.       Civil and building works and equipment contracts for an aggregate
value of US$5.5 million would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. The solid waste component
is small, US$0.5 million, and unlikely to attract foreign suppliers. This
item would therefore be procured using local bidding procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank, and which would allow international suppliers to bid.
Local bidding would apply also to small infrastructure works costing less than
US$0.25 million, totalling about US$0.8 million and to miscellaneous equipment
amounting to about US$0.1 million. Civil works for the traffic management
component and building works for solid waste management totaling US$0.36
million would be carried out on force account by the Ministry of Works and the
Port Louis Municipality respectively. Consultant and specialist services for
detailed engineering and studies would be procured individually on conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 16 -
Disbursement
58.       The Bank will disburse against 80 percent of the local cost of housing
credit, and of civil and building works, and 100 percent of the foreign cost
or 80 percent of the local cost of equipment, technical assistance and other
consulting services. No disbursements will be made for housing credit until
the cofinanciers loan is effective. No disbursements will be made on the
solid waste component until suitable land, already identified, has been
acquired for solid waste disposal nor on components involving a subsidiary
loan agreement until signature of the relevant agreement (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1).
59.       Project expenditures incurred after May 31, 1980 will be financed
retroactively so as to refinance housing loans made by MHC to cyclone victims,
and to complement PPF funds used in completing final design and engineering of
other components. Expenditures approved under the Project Preparation Facility
will also be refinanced from the loan. The total reimbursed under these heads
would be limited to US$1.5 million, on the basis of 80 percent of total
expenditures.
Financial Analysis
60.       Mauritius Housing Corporation.  MHC has long been an efficient and
prudent mortgage lending institution with established policies, loan process-
ing procedures and a well trained staff. MHC can finance mortgages for up
to the full value of residential properties. Due to its relatively effective
management, its portfolio shows only 1 percent in arrears of 90 days or more.
Its total assets grew from US$9.0 million at June 20, 1975 to US$25.0 million
by the end of June 1980. However in the past year its expansion has slowed
due to economic conditions and government's inability to provide funds. MHC
has increasingly used long-term borrowing to finance expansion (75 percent of
its total liabilities), which has eroded its financial viability. This is-
shown by the relatively high debt-equity ratio of 5 to 1 at the end of 1979.
More recently, MHC has financed some of its expansion through loans of less
than one year, so that the current ratio (current assets/current liabilities)
reached a low of 0.2 by the end of 1980.
61.       For MHC to grow as planned, while remaining financially sound, it
needs to readjust its financial position. Since it has a relatively long
average debt structure which nearly matches the average 23 years of mortgage
terms, a debt-equity ratio of 4 to 1 would be acceptable. During negotia-
tions, Government agreed to strengthen MHC's financial structure (by provid-
ing US$1.7 million in loans and converting US$0.9 million debt into equity
in 1980/81 and providing additional funds to MHC in equity over the period
1981/84) so that MHC will reach a debt-equity ratio of 4 to 1 in FY84 (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5).
62.       MHC has recently been actively seeking deposits as a source of
capital. From about US$100,000 in 1975, deposits had grown to nearly US$1
million by mid-1979: 4 percent of total resources. This is indicative of
a capacity to save in Mauritius. Moreover, the risk of these savings being
withdrawn is minimal since they pay, on average, 10 percent per annum and
are competitive with other investment opportunities within the country. This



- 17 -
policy of domestic resource mobilization needs to be encouraged and continued.
MHC has established a target of raising additional capital through customer's
savings by about 15 percent per annum for the next five years.
Cost Recovery
63.       About 73 percent of project costs would be recovered directly from
the final beneficiaries. The balance would be recovered from general revenues.
The following principles of cost recovery would be applied:
(a) Costs which are normally recovered by public authorities
in the form of user charges or tariffs would be recovered
to the extent possible according to the relevant institu-
tions policies, which are generally acceptable. It should
be noted that this is partly the result of a decision, made
by Government during project preparation, to make tenants
of CHA housing estates pay the standard tariffs for service
received: these had previously been free (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.05).
(b) Site development costs for on-site infrastructure
development of La Tour Koenig, home construction and
improvement loans, engineering and supervision, would
be borne directly by beneficiaries in respect of private
plots. Costs relating to public areas such as schools
would be borne by central government revenue.
64.       At La Tour Koenig, medium- and larger-sized plots, forming about
40 percent of the total plots developed, and those in prime locations, would
pay a premium which would go toward subsidizing smaller, standard plots. For
the solid waste component, the Government would recover the cost of additional
investment under the project by methods to be determined on completion of the
solid waste management study (paragraph 33).
Affordability
65.       During appraisal, components were scrutinized to ensure that the
target group could afford all infrastructure components. For the La Tour
Koenig component, families with incomes of US$115 and above per month (73
percent of total households) could afford a one-room core house. Nearly 90
percent of people who already have land, have incomes high enough to build
core houses. MHC would ensure that the cost of carrying charges (amortization
for land and construction) would not exceed 25 to 30 percent of family income
on all credit provided under the project.
Project Replicability
66.       The project will demonstrate the feasibility of developing serviced
land and housing affordable to low-income households, and recovery of costs,
without overstraining the Government's already stretched budget. However,
replicability of the project is very much dependent on its being executed
efficiently, and on successful collection of charges from beneficiaries.
We believe it stands a good chance of success. The project includes studies



- 18 -
which would recommend similar projects in the new urban centers, and expe-
rience gained from this project would be valuable in their design.
Poverty Impact and Project Justification
67.       About 33 percent of the population of Mauritius is below the urban
relative poverty threshold estimated at US$130 monthly family income in 1980
prices. All components are designed to benefit this group to the extent
possible. The housing and rehabilitation component would benefit about 39,000
people of whom about 50 percent would be below the relative poverty threshold.
Improvements in public transport would benefit the poorer members of the
community more than the richer. At least 60 percent of the direct benefi-
ciaries of all components would be in the target low-income population group,
as defined by the Government with incomes up to US$160 per month.
68.       The economic rates of return for La Tour Koenig and housing credit
are estimated at 18 percent and 17 percent respectively. Benefits of other
components were not quantifiable; these include the public health and environ-
mental benefits derived from rehabilitation of services in CHA estates and
improved garbage collection. The reduced risk of further typhoid outbreaks
would be important for public health and help protect the tourist industry
from any negative impact. More efficient public transport throughout the
island vill eventually reduce journey times for many people, since buses are
heavily used for commuting, and will improve supply of labor to industries at
present experiencing a labor shortage because of transport problems. The
institution building effects of the project will have important but unquanti-
fiable benefits for Mauritius' longer-term development.
Risk
69.       The main risk relates to the number of institutions involved:
although it does not call for the creation of any new institutions, except for
the National Physical Development Unit in the Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development, the project is dependent on rapid expansion and strengthening
of several organizations which are at present weak. We believe that with the
support of project technical assistance, this can be achieved. The present
staff and procedures of MHC can be relied upon to implement the proposed
expanded loan program. A major uncertainty concerns demand for MHC loans in
the proportions (by income group) and the scale envisaged. A lorig tradition
exists in Mauritius of informal finance for housing often based on an indivi-
dual s current spending capacity rather than his debt servicing capacity.
For public housing there has been a tradition of heavily subsidized provision
of finished housing. The project seeks to change these customs, but experience
demonstrates that similar customs elsewhere die hard. Nevertheless there
is little doubt that the demand exists - MHC has a sizable waiting list of
applicants, many of whom are eligible for project funds - and,given the
relatively small base from which MHC starts and the limited size of its
overall intended program, this risk is well within a tolerable range. To the
extent any of these risks materialize, they imply a somewhat slower rate of
disbursement rather than project failure. Finally, 90 percent of the cost to
be recovered from final beneficiaries would be for housing credit. The
experience of MHC has shown that less than one percent of its loan amounts
are unpaid and therefore we can consider the risk related to cost recovery
to be a low risk.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between Mauritius and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately.
71.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III of this Report, the
following features are of particular interest:
(a) Effectiveness of an agreement between the Government and
co-financier is a condition of disbursement on the housing credit
component (paragraph 52);
(b) No disbursement would be made for the solid waste compo-
nent until suitable land has been acquired for solid
waste disposal (paragraph 58), nor for components
involving MHC, CWA, CEB and the Port Louis Municipality
respectively until the relevant subsidiary loan agreement
has been signed (paragraph 53).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 18, 1980






ANNEX T
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MAURITIUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAURITIUS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRSjGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                         - M0ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              2.0
AGRICULTURAL       1.1                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 1b ESTIMATE 1b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 220.0        310.0     830.0                726.2                  1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTITO PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     119.0       185.0     397.0                 699.4                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      0.66        0.83       0.92
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 33.2        42.1       50.2                 28.9                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                      350.0       400.0     460.0                  61.7                    28.1
PER SQ. 10. AGRICULTURAL LAND    681.0       746.0     836.0                 126.0                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.1        41.9      35.7                  45.5                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.9        54.5      60.6                 51.6                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.6       3.7                   2.8                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2         2.3        1.3                  2.7                     2.7
URBAN                              4.8         4.8       3.6                   4.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.0         30.0      25.0                 46.8                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     10.0          7.0       7.0                 16.4                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9          1.9       1.5                  3.2                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         9.8       12.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..        25.0      52.5
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         111.0        94.0     102.0                  94.0                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQJIREMENTS)                  103.0       106.0     114.0                  92.7                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PE  DAY)          48.0        51.0      59.0                  53.0                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        18.0       26.0                 15.6                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     11.0         5.7        4.1                 21.3                     8.4
HEALTE
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    59.0        64.0       67.0                 50.1                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           70.0        59.0      40.0                    ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        61.0      60.0                  31.0                    65.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0      100.0                 66.8                    80.4
RURAL                               ..        29.0      22.0                    ..                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        77.0      82.0                    ..                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        51.0      63.0                    ..                    79.4
RURAL                               ..        99.0      100.0                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN          5470.0/c    4187.0   2410.0                14508.2                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2102.0/c     816.0     656.0                3279.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            230.Oj     254.0     281.0                1141.5                   480.3
URBAN                               ..       160.0
RURAL                               ..       478.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.1       21.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.9         5.3/d
URBAN                              4.9          ..
RURAL                              4.8          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.9/c        ..
URBAN                              1.8c         ..         .
RURAL                              1.9/         ..         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47.0/c      70.1
URBAN                             81.974 .9
RURAL                             29.0:         ..         .



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
MAURITIUS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITIUS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERcGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE 1a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab    1970 A  ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        108.0     104.0                  61.7                     99.7
MALE                 103.0       110.0      100.0                  69.2                    101.0
FEMALE                93.0       105.0      108.0                  31.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         31.0      49.0                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                  32.0        38.0       53.0                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                15.0        25.0       46.0                  14.7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)   2.0           1.0       2.0                   7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         32.0      24.0                  36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          22.0         25.0      31.0                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         60.8/c        ..       80.0                   ..                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         15.0      27.0                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         60.0        103.0     219.0                  83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         23.0      45.0                    ..                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  87.0         78.0      91.0                  24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 11.0          10.0       18.9                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)       200.0        256.0     318.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.4         19.6      22.0                  38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.6         34.0      30.3                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 25.8         25.1      24.0                  17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.9         31.0      33.3                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                  51.0        49.7       52.5                 48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                                12.3        12.2      14.0                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.5        1.1                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.0            ..      31.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.0            ..      55.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5            ..       4.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.0            ..      14.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     190.Oe.
RURAL                                ..           ..     190.0/e                  ..                    19O.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     290.0/e                  ..                    474.0
RUPAL                                 ..          ..     290.0/e                  ..                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      12.0/e
RURAL                                 ..          ..      12.0/e
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc   1962;  /d 1972;  /e 1979.
April, 1980



ANNEX T
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORSS
Notes   hirhhugh the data ann daun frol        orcsgneal  judged the moa outho-lantt -anretbe i  shold  lt  ha noted clot they say non be  tote-
thlss   .aIn  no desor the. oeders ofiund,lodocase teca.ds, and oh-aac-lie nariat  tajo  differne-                       bteooonrc
The  .e..no   gnps ar  (1) nbc mace o-ony groap of the ash len  t..uetry sad (2) eoutygoptr   nabnhge   vrg   noeca  h    osr   ra
of th  suh)en osnesy(e-cpt for "CaPit.i  urpl-e Oft tpoeters" group wher  "Middtaleon  North Afrtro and ttddle   or   ucoe   eas   fanne
suco-uinea  aftentn)    Isth  re ceat  goopdaa te  neege  at  ppoltln ntgtederthmtl  mensP o  eob  ndootr  nd  hot olyobe  a
leanshalfof te coctris leagroo  hasdosefoe  hat  adleeer.   tatenhe  overfe o  coonrtesomos  theladtetor-depodo o  thouralabl .ty .o
daasa   s  o  umiifer. ca tiomsth  mroed On  eattagt anrgs.                     foe.nlort   nther.  Thes  fresgn   ateh onlyd              nft oouar.th   o
of one lodiounor an a cOme among the coantry cad nefeomacs groups.1  1 th--11.bll,  b
.. t 1. f .1 t,  t-Populato    e   iptlfdctlihdc_                                      aal-Pplto ctl
dl. P  P  J. APIt -foo)   lap per captab esttmanm- anoiet         mrbnpie,oa-                    uhn   n  rott)  ivied  9 bob:re.otti  omhr othoyltlb
cul-cedibytsum  coeonco  me tho  asWrdSa.tas(96T    ai)  1960. tval-ohteftsp..l.rgandpcrbnan  grora  an  oecf                                           bof  nslalmntn
relolty) to  lograss of  oal equivalet pence pita   1960   f1910,an  1979       nam todefe  etc.) whic --fe ps-yatjoe   acassdano   n   rvd
d.t..                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oeinlude i  p.li,On  picpei 0etv R acJ - c at STuloeibvyt Oni.1 andnul
Totul Poaoo          l-er(ilin)-A   fJld;16,  90   n   99                                   Amslv  pee8 hblit bti    l -- ed'. it lhal titherIci  1--eps ...o_c   t o  d tso fege
bENERG  CupaNobXTON (PooReI of tonal)  -..stleiof ura  no natal pupulanlos;.
dlffrai     olo     so  urba  areasdsay effec  coprblItyy-f of dana.,b  .-d,     ..i
amoagooanl klea; 1960   -1970,.. am160 19970dans.uver97e   ine  if House)hihod(esn  per,  ti-tel --natal, urat sa-d rusl
PoplatIn   roelio ibutbad  ooogs"ist  of.  .noo iig ..Ovda ..                                                                                      oho' " shnPlvn  quarter
Ttonalat,,  idx popultionby        ..e   A. set Jao 1yheO    mortality an   fetlt   1Ien,   the household  fo  m-nlOta _ purpoun-s.                d      -
Prjclo    aemnr  Oenrnln  etsonpteoftre  eesf_u-                   vrg h.he fprnspr  or   op,ro                            ndorl-Aeaeuc
lee,  a   eml-of    yoacysailaago   7.   ees    hepr-                                        wlings_ nnpetivl            - T-webbllfnon toiunon-h-eEarotrs-n
fertIlity scoodlag to loios  Ree  adpatfaiyilasa   petlb,,ot tio55no  lelondidty  (prcn  ofdI                              leo       ia,ubn   o   oa 
Oacb county Is Ohen  ssigned Oc  of eboas  ine combiftdeof noEtiyCtvnnnaldeligHtlOeeUSIrNhGinn   qatesa
aud fa..ntifty  trends for0 pejoinpnoe.                                                   ftnl.ra,d    rueald deeA-lingaSieapeH....ehy.
the  irt  naP.ti in equa  no the  .deoth rnt  sa  als  the age f sotiltunetre-hOSOC hT ld
melasnuounan7..t.  hi  in1 sothietd   y   aften  feetil fth rise  decline t             Adluaed   faoime PO...n        -A-osh
th   eyneg   n   level of cainy   enrepodutio  eats, oh encang  te.ent in                  rmayuluol T- tona   mel  -cd ftol    t-Ibne  t-a, l  adfml
in-he1 nu  7000, and the. ra-te-of deobin  ofi fetilit5y.atn To. eplsoe                      pears' but-duted-too  Dlffenun  -etlc  planeaclon    o
tent Otnol.                                                                            ooui-ntr... iesal-tl  uvre   dntlnerlun   o  sre   0   eo
Poudno lesili y                                                                               edaeanloereqolotsp...  ft..1   Y.   atd leas  feori.g -eors if  proel rlayynturin
thvl  area.husaally of.12 to 1h ydsethoh.ege cdernayehd tare courses.seeEDencesOl
Penso...ha. salutuna"i   lea .h-dCmue  as shove fort agrt cultarel.i. lae                Ad euudedEa.U-Rt
,hl. -eca-i..l enollmenf-itrrno of  oonnday) --Tc...uhl itiOtutOun
Poaano  OeOcutae(pnenl-Chlee    i-iyer).rtog-ge  15-                                        inod   neh tnira- t ildo1utrdia      -l -r orhe   p totaenblo   operan  leepta-
ii  -earuf  oad ed.ited   f (61  ty.Th teatsand .oen) a   pene pnge  of. mid-erpp-             eoyo   s    eren  ef, sonday .....oObon..
Puou       I    thnton  irooRt  ( fcer  -  pmIni -d  enuet geotib.rntYf tota  mI-ppayadneodr   eesdviepyaneso   eachenht a% Itd the1
yea0poulalon    foe 150- ti f90-9  and_  f97-78i.         t~t    P                           bt.1 tenedodig fen lsd.  .-     ..t.~lit              .t
Puuabntrun    ae(enen      run-dsulgeuhm                          f  ra   oo              Aut liteno   rath  (ne..oens) -. tioouus   fable- to. read sodunte)
laclun   for I9.6.     160.,ad1917,aapmeng   of hd.ttonl~ edcl  populatio  age  11p. year  aod oe....d
pnyaatlo; 101.197, usd 170  ass.fPaoslt.o yf1on                                            11r             .;9..-1
Zed  mt   Sen t.t(ten lbeusad) - ACsepet deah  per thousnd o  mOdyea                   Pasne   at   prtosadpdlnln       aodgrtt   omts    o
p    Rultlo  19I, 1)0.end197  daa                                                      tarnl(014y.  smuniag less than_teight Iesou   eubden)_-V . a tbulcot1 ihetituiand
IrOns  lpr,d,oto-hiit-Anerie duste of1daghtersewoman  ill beschapmiitaryirhdcpou
Itilnyav1;60  1nus0l  fiepa.         vraaeda    a190d90   n 19977.                           rosdc1nt-hto goorti.      th   perZ  nn-uad.oi touabi  ooae    ai
ofbi t-cotho  det ce  uade-r -apileu of ostlom th family pfnon   progtn1sasdi  tlife,r; -d-r o  reetyeu may not he                                c to-rbhlesInc  moat
ofoPdhernoft(Ih  yers  wh  use birYth-controlf dslboa taR                               IV peocIivets (m  lthoao         op Laiol.t-t dTV tnece   bleos  fo lbodcast  lto
Ill s   1n 50e 6 ounce in 7sam   ai-rop                                                 general .   publIc per  lboedbpplatppbon;ieocloden  yol.ooe -T -etOc
.dlB'_h R.l. Ill t~~~~~~ .....                                       lnco_rA-nsodibaeabioethonuRratth.uffedtafcidoffect
Cl. . lh   th     nd) - An .. 1d..th. pY th .....d  f  idten-paperS Cimoula  tho (e  roood  oyltdo P--thoo  th o-enage rools
lode  of  ondp_ odcnon  ro  Capta1 (9697d_10)    ladodeftee  tap-a snoatlio gof .daiy  gtera  intret   neupael-efne   a   a herodca  put-
Gl...Rodocto  of. all     - Auod  oomodioe    f Ptdoot .            l  lnoldess    n  fee  and  loction devotedpoaiy  orcron    enunea    ti  o                         ee
otiloe    aerg  prduerprcewgb19191-1 0, 7,ad19790 dta                                       sod197  mob..,,ie unit,                             l           -it.I,.b
Pe   tpia  uel  of'l naoina.   ....een  of  esuretntlBCopued  ro
ondy   AvAilbl tuppA..s comprise  domestic  prdscts, Imot  les.n.abrFre.oosru      forbnl ptn   cren,dnluding II
secs nre .stiate nh O fnd on  hytuogd       e  ns-d  fegnI mlani      -          170dae
thy. an .health .. . osdelg~ e15o4eoyse h.na       bemp treunt bod    eg ts,ag           Femal (tenceot) i-. Pelincuberg focea  prtae              .ftoa  labo  foce
alo- atf   of.  h-i.gam   of tonal. pr969e7aper da  sod 2 fgrm   ofl anpimal and.          Phrtilon"diuncne(ecety              notel, maIn,tov leod  .-a        -dcia-Io  OP~
World Foo ._oRrey; .161-6, 1970 ned           6-6,  97, . 1977 dana.                      l9hU  1970,  an   95dt.Tee  r   l'hancytlntnsrfetn
Perr, bt -p    proei   upl  fromi soim.lt and p lue       t -Prni  su.pply o foo   e          g-e   noounu   h   euato,adlc   ie  rn.Afosi
roe-   fo-agay         n  pulil seef   in  eom  per day;.vilbl   i 96- t1.197  and 1977t  d LABO Roei FCR day  at      atoo   ou            oude   5cd6Eadae
Chil  fdoe  iA) tartaly iae(e   thusnd      Annualdeaths Iperthossdi                         no. t. the total l theruforc.)-E      -iIy         -.p....i,d 
trtodaa  evd   frmh    ietaie;190  197  ed 197  dat..d,ootOIOOIdTI
P -dce .ta .. of  delvate  Yoo     (hel  in b oa h,adbid   -leend-by rices
atbtirth  190    i9'  ae.d 197  data,.i  d.lb.i- RIi,
ofua  port  tso d ls byFieth..EsimtedAboyoniovetyIncmeInv1   PlOpe  cotfl -uranJndearl 
Acento Taf hCanon (pecen  ofIl  -iclaniou   t- nonlt.arba.ady ruinat.-                       Absolu dte. yott  toc      l      fe ..o.ho ..c o.re..en.. b.I  on1 ahiob e rtom
brm   f  eole(tta,  rbn,an  nta)  in  raonbl  ecem  o  af                      nnrttnalyadqutedetpla  outsca  or-oc  rqureone nIn
.ete  suha  char fees.   pprutetid bo    ode.1springs  enI        aitrpels   s             sr-ndclainPoet TIscott.html  full                    f__cria  -  _har andrue-
resoul eccs f nfud  imply. thtteN         nteft-pyI,d or mas1her.ftehueod             IstinutR.ed P1- nuiatyne telr   Absolut  povr-y   IccetLve1pe960,-ura
do.non bane noopted. d.prpI tlennepatt            f  heda  b Ttdye.  2  tnh- f itgteadttl-Preio   o aie(ra   n  rurull   o-te 'abso.luepr"
lupr-  c  perctteg              Ilo thei  repeolde  propalnoe Uccadu                                                      itt Po.an   oca  iota Uviu-
fn,uld Pb ca"1                   I16,  90 ndc19d5 tho oule6 9o ad   17 d .uoe,stb. on altbu   bTameh-iooncnl l.Iu  cod -ntcicon ilopuotnur-t
Y-oa~rttindoato-ute  by-                          ,....Ppyf e...r-b.tre tystefotor cit use ol                                       cod el- ti-Sc d.Af.  .i
cit y.'': n andsloiur cotulY.ticr



ANNEX I
Page 4 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979
Annual Rates of Growthl/
US$ Mln              %       1972-75              1976-79
GNP at market prices              1007.5              100.0         7.2                  5.1
Gross domestic investment          389.3               38.6        27.2                  2.3
Gross domestic saving          2/  252.6               25.1        -2.1                -5.2
Gross domestic saving (TTadj)        -                  -          32.9               -19.5
Current account balance           -136.7              -13.6         -
Exports of goods, n.f.s.           511.6               50.8        -8.0                  7.3
Imports of goods, n.f.s.           648.3               64.3         8.7                  3.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND                                               3/
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979                 Value Added        Labor Force-         V.A. -per Worker
US$ Mln   z       Thousand       %          US -        %
Sugar                              237.4    25.9        53.1       26.8         4471       96.7
Other agriculture                   45.3      5.0        6.7        3.4         6761      146.2
Other Industry                     200.7    21.9        48.2       24.3         4164       90.1
Services                           432.7    47.2        90.1       45.5         4802      103.8
916.1   100.0      198.1      100.0         4624      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                      Central Government
Rs Mln           % of GDP -
1978/79     1978          1976-78
Current revenue                    1486.0       26.9           27.2
Current expenditure                1722.0       31.2           29.7
Current deficit                    -236.0       -4.3           -2.5
Capital expenditure                 667.0       12.1           12.5
Foreign financing (gross)           380.0        6.9            6.2
MONEY,CREDIT AND PRICES
1376        1977      1978       1979
(Rs million outstanding at the end of the period)
Money and quasi money                      2083.9      2351.6    2861.5    3113.7
Claims on Government (net)                  580.6      1155.7    1525.5    1967.9
Claims on private sector                   1157.2      1352.1    1508.1    1721.6
(Percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP            50.8        48.1       51.8       47.6
GDP Deflator (1976-100)                     100.0       108.0      118.0      133.6
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP deflator                                  -           8.0        9.3       13.2
Claims on Government (net)                   59.5        99.1       32.0       29.0
Claims on private sector                     55.0        16.8       11.5       14.2
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/  In 1970 prices for the period 1972-75 and 1976 prices for 1976-79.
2/ Adjusted for gains or losses from terms of trade
3/  Employment in large establishments                                                August 1980
_/  Government finance in fiscal year as Z of GDP in calendar year



ANNLA 1
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(US$ Million)
BAlANCE OF PA\.TIEXTS    1976   1977   1978   1979
-P-             -       -        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1976-79)
'Exports of goods, n.f.s. 357.4  402.4  440.5  511.6                                   US$Mln 2
Imports of goods, n.f.s. 405.8  490.2  566.2  648.3    Sugar                         218.7      68.6
Resource gap              -48.4  -87.8 -125.7 -136.7    Molasses                        6.6       2.1
Investment income (net)    5.8   -2.6   -7.8  -18.7    Manufactures                    71.9     22.6
Net transfers                6.3   12.7   13.8   15.6    Other pr^ducts                 9.0       2.8
Current account balance  -36.3  -77.7 -119.7 -139.8          Total                    318.8    100.0
Long term capital            7.2    8.5   12.2    6.4
Net NLT borrowing:                                         EXTERN'AL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979 (USS lr.n)
Disbursements             4.6   10.4   69.0   57.5
Amortization              1.2    3.6    2.2    4.1    Public debt outstanding
Subtotal            /     3.4    6.8   66.8   53.4        and disbursed                    226.9
Other capital (net) -    -48.6   24.4   20.8   30.3
Change in reserves         74.3   38.0   19.9   49.7    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
(decrease +)                                            Public debt, including
guaranteed                        4.02-
Use of SDRs                -0;9   -0.5   -0.8    0.2    IBRD/IDA LENDING SEPT. 30, 1980 (US$Mln)
Use of SDRs  -0.9   -0.5   -0.8    0.2                         ~~~~~IBRD    IDA
Use of 111F credit            -   -12.7     -    40.8    Outstanding and
Net foreign assets         92.3   43.7   31.7   19.6          disbursed               33.5    20.2
Undisbursed                39.2     0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                          Outstanding including
undisbursed            72.7    20.2
1976              1977            1978              1979
US$1.0-R6.6S24  US$1.0=R6.5996  US$1.0=R6.140   US$1.0=6.4017
R1.O'=US$0.1496  R1.0=US$0.1515  Rl.0=US$0.1628  Rl.0=US$0.1562
1/ Tncluces short term private capital, SDR allocation and errors and omissions.
2/ Actual debt service payments as percentage of estimated exports of goods and factors
services.
AUGUST 1980



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITIUS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1980)
Amount
Loan or                                                         (Less Cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million
Number      Year      Borrower          Purpose                Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Three Loans and five Credits have been fully disbursed         15.5   20.2
976-MAS    1974         "         Port I                      10.0             2.3
1168-MAS    1975      DBM          Development Bank III         7.5             1.6
1339-T-MAS  1976      Mauritius    Revised Port I               3.6             1.2
1481-MAS    1977      DBM          Development Bank IV          7.5             3.3
1543-MAS    1978      Mauritius    Second Education            15.2            10.8
1548-MAS    1978         "          Second Power               15.0            14.0
1789-MAS    1979      DBM          Development Bank V           6.0             6.0
TOTAL                                             80.3    20.2   39.2
of which has been repaid                         7.6      -        -
TOTAL now outstanding                             72.7    20.2       -
Amount sold                      5.0
of which has been repaid      3.8                1.2    20.2       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/                 71.5    20.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                 39.2        -    39.2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (September 30, 19810)
Year       Borrower              Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1971    Dinarobin Inns
& Hotels Ltd.                Tourism                      0.6     -         0.6
Total gross commitment                                 0.6     _         0.6
Less cancellations,
terminations, re-
payments and sales                                     0.4               0.4
Net fixed by IFC                                       0.2               0.2
Total undisbursed                                      0.0    0.0        0.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Loan No. 1168-MAS    Third Development Bank Project: US$7.5 million Loan of
October 23, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 9, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan provides financing for the foreign exchange component of
the Development Bank of Mauritius loans and investments in industry, agro-
industry and tourism. The project is proceeding well, and about $5.9 million
have been disbursed. Funds were fully committed by the end of 1978, but since
then two sub-loans totalling $1.6 million have been cancelled, and discussions
are underway to re-commit these funds.
Loan No. 1481-MAS    Fourth Development Bank Project: US$7.5 million Loan of
August 29, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan provides financing for the term foreign exchange needs of
medium and large scale industrial, tourism and agro-industrial projects. The
loan is fully committed and $4.0 million disbursed.
Loan No. 976-MAS      Port Project: US$10.0 million Loan of April 12, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: June 13, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Loan No. 1339-T-MAS Revised Port Project: US$3.6 million Third Window Loan of
December 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Mauritius Marine Authority (MMA) has made contractual arrange-
ments with a new private dock company established by the existing dock compa-
nies for cargo handling operations, and is making good progress in exercising
its responsibilities. Nevertheless, waiting time for ships is still excessive
and attention is now being focussed on improving cargo handling procedures.
Physical execution of the project is proceeding well. Construction
of the new berth facilities is making good progress. Contracts for support
facilities such as administration, workshop and fire station buildings have
been awarded after a delay of over a year in arriving at decisions on land
use in the port area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1548-MAS    Power Transmission Project: US$15 million Loan of
April 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: January 23, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The iroject consists of construction of 66-kV and lower voltage
transmission/distribution lines and substations; construction of a system
control center; consulting services and training.
Almost all material and equipment have already been ordered except
that for the control center. Construction has also started at various sites
in the country to construct substations and power lines included in the
project although last year's cyclone Claudette badly hit the island, the
project is on schedule so far. Studies as set forth in the Loan Agreement
for long range power planning, reorganization, energy sector and training
needs have been completed. Recommendations of these studies are being
implemented by the Central Electricity Board.
Loan No. 1543-MAS    Second Education Project: US$15.2 million Loan of
April 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 8, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project Unit continues to operate satisfactorily. Construction
of 12 of the 15 Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) is expected to be completed
in 1981. All these schools are in operation, although they have not yet
attained full capacity. Design work is underway for the remaining three
JSS, the Mauritius College of Education, the Mauritius Institute of Education
and the Ministry of Education (MECA). After substantial delay, because of
original lack of agreement on the new structure of the MECA, the implementa-
tion of the reorganization of the MECA is now proceeding satisfactorily. It
is now estimated that the new buildings for the MECA will be completed about
one year beyond the Closing Date. Educational objectives are expected to
be achieved upon completion of the project.
Loan No. 1789-MAS   Fifth Development Bank Project:  US$6.0 million Loan of
January 23, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Project will assist the Development Bank of Mauritius in finan-
cing directly or through Mauritian-owned commercial banks the foreign exchange
component of loans and investments in industry, agro-industry and tourism. It
will also help cover the foreign exchange component of artisan and small-scale
enterprises investment needs.



ANNEX III
Page 1
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events:
Time taken by Mauritius to prepare project: 22 months (June 1978-April 1980)
Project prepared by: Team containing representatives of Ministries
of Planning, Finance, Housing, Works, and Local Government,
and Mauritius Housing Corporation
Date of first presentation to the Bank: March 1977
Date of first Bank mission: July 1977
Date of departure of Appraisal:  May 1980
Date of completion of negotiations: October 8, 1980
Planned date of effectiveness: February 1981
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action:
None
Section III. Special Conditions:
1.   Conditions of disbursement (a) on housing credit: effective-
ness of agreement with cofinancier (paragraph 52); (b) on
the solid waste component: acquisition of suitable land for
solid waste disposal (paragraph 58); (c) on respective
components: signature of loan agreements with MHC, CEB,
CWA, and the Municipality of Port Louis (paragraph 53).
2.   Other conditions:
(a) Government to take steps to provide appropriate
incentives for improvement and maintenance of
rental housing (paragraph 27);
(b) Government to study appropriateness of charging
for sewerage and to exchange views with the Bank
on a proposed tariff structure (paragraph 32);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  Area containing La Tour Koenig development to be
brought into administrative jurisdiction of an
appropriate authority (paragraph 43);
(d) Traffic ordinances to be amended to control parking
in Port-Louis (paragraph 47);
(e) Government would review and implement findings of
solid waste management study including cost recovery
(paragraph 33);
(f) MHC's debt-service ratio would not exceed 4 to I in FY84
(paragraph 61);
(g) Occupants of CHA estates to pay charges for water and
sewerage (paragraph 63).



=               Si'30' 95730
MAURITIUS
URBAN REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                              'ro,
20         -  - -   COOFP IA O4ONOCOMF IllPoOo5.T CN5000l>2Bf_
'i   BUILT LIP EA.^A                                                                            Ld Aoe             /4/                                       N       C       )   s  C fEA  IV
_%   5KtFl3        000 0 NDARY  TbO Od\
,jMND 1i5SOUTIt ceNTERE                                        5         sTslet   /Im   e      ' z\
0FVB5S  NLA.50   5
D 2     4 0           a 0            1I
KLO 1E             0ERS OTEO'
O           022 00   020400    00 900055                                  U     Jf                 n     M        u      >   S    
0 |;-   S    0 \  0 /v;d,- AtO$                   _' 2  -
IX9                                                                                                                                        CentreWere  dolre  Flocqerty Fa/ -)   >   \   \   t  a   m  dF
0~~~~~    SEA  4P-d <;ffX'                                                                                               l 
e                                                                     S th,Etu, tDouc
. 9 ,                                   \                                                                /                                                                  =-Ys31s l
/ ) Ij C /A  N         O CCf A    .V                        So-9E                                                                                                         "Mg',I              04I  0 C i A  0V
Bel O.b,.                                      A~~~~~~~~oOo' 0' ,0Sr 00 'sefOj,t(a 0,Oak,
Oooo 020010010000' 'Os O~i siss 50 say 0510 'yasya,-p.aaha1,
Al  I A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 35 C0f 0AOoodn



