ICA          LOAN NUMBER 1926 MAS
DO  UM W'
Loan Agreement
(Urban Rehabilitation and Development Project)
between
MAURITIUS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1926 MAS
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        LXJ    LA                    between
MAURITIUS (hereinafter call d the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Saudi Fund for
Development (hereinafter called the Saudi Fund) a Loan in an
amount equivalent to about $4.5 million to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Saudi Fund Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Saudi Fund;
(C) by letter addressed by the Bank to the Minister of
Finance of the Borrower on April 3, 1980, the Bank granted an
advance to the Borrower in the principal amount of $143,000 for
the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is to be refunded to the Bank out of the proceeds
of the Loan provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MHC" means the Mauritius Housing Corporation;
(b) "CEB" means the Borrower's Central Electricity Board;
(c) "CWA" means the Borrower's Central Water Authority;
(d) "Port Louis" means the Municipality of Port Louis; and
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
provided for in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of paragraph (c)
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement under which the MHC, the CEB,
the CWA and Port Louis will carry out parts of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and ser-
vices required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(b) On the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the advance
referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any unpaid
interest thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
principal amount of such advance shall be cancelled as of the same
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. MHC is hereby designated as the authorized
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted under Article V of the General
Conditions in respect.of Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of.the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative,
technical and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) In order to ensure coordination in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall maintain in its Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development a Project Coordinator who will monitor


﻿-4-
and coordinate progress in the carrying out of the Project and
furnish to the Bank such periodic reports as shall be reasonably
requested by the Bank.
(c) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall:
(i) cause Part B of the Project to be carried out by
the MHC under a subsidiary loan agreement providing
for that purpose for the relending by the Borrower
to the MHC of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
and withdrawn under Categories (3) (a) and (3) (b)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 of this
Agreement;
(ii) cause the CEB to carry out Part A.4 of the Project
under a subsidiary loan agreement providing for
that purpose for the relending by the Borrower to
the CEB of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to
and withdrawn under Category (8) of the table set
forth in such Schedule 1;
(iii) cause the CWA to carry out Parts A.3 and C.2 of
the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement
providing for that purpose for the relending by the
Borrower to the CWA of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated and withdrawn under Category (9) of the
table set forth in such Schedule 1; and
(iv) cause Part E of the Project to be carried out by
Port Louis under a subsidiary loan agreement
providing for that purpose for the relending
by the Borrower to Port Louis of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated and withdrawn under Category (6)
of the table set forth in such Schedule 1.
(d) Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide for relend-
ing by the Borrower of proceeds of the Loan for a period of 17
years including 4 years of grace and at a rate of interest equal
to the discount rate of the Bank of Mauritius on the date of
signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 10% per annum,
whichever shall be the greater and shall contain such other terms
and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements nor amend,
abrogate or waive any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the feasibility and public transport studies, the design of
rehabilitation works, the supervision of construction, the land
valuation and the training included in the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause
to be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits


﻿to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Prior to any change in the general investment
and lending policies of the MHC, the Borrower shall exchange views
with the Bank on the proposed change.
Section 3.06. The land of La Tour Koenig to be developed
under Part A of the Project shall be brought under the jurisdic-
tion of an appropriate authority for the purposes of maintenance
and taxation prior to the completion of such Part A.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out a study on the
long-term management of solid waste disposal, shall exchange views
with the Bank on the results thereof and shall, on the basis of
the recommendations of such study, ensure that the costs of
improved disposal be collected from beneficiaries.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that the Ministry
of Housing, Lands and Town and Country Planning establish and
maintain a special unit for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project consisting of a qualified and experienced civil or muni-
cipal engineer, a quantity surveyor and such support staff as
shall be required.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of


﻿-7-
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any. institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources .and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until two years after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures for the Project on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account


﻿-8-
under this Agreement on the basis of certificates of expenditure
and enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine such
records.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank prior to or with
any application for reimbursement of expenditures referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, a report of independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, in respect of such expendi-
tures as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure were used
to make payments for goods received, or works or services per-
formed, and that such goods, works and services were eligible for
financing under this Agreement and were used in the carrying out
of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall cause MRC to maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
conditions of MHC and to maintain separate records in respect of
Part B of the Project.
(e) The Borrower shall cause MHC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, copies of
such statements prior to audit and, not later than twelve months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of MHC and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to provide incentives to ensure proper improvement and
maintenance of rental housing and shall exchange views with
the Bank on any proposal to modify or supplement legislation for
the purpose.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall carry out a study of urban
traffic and parking legislation and if necessary shall introduce
amendments or supplements to legislation to provide for: (i) the
establishment and collection of charges for parking; and (ii) the
organization of a force of wardens with power to enforce such
legislation.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that direct benefi-
ciaries and occupiers of all estates under the Central Housing
Authority pay water and sewerage charges according to existing
tariffs.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1982, carry
out a study of the costs of investments in and operation and main-
tenance of its sewerage system and on the basis thereof, exchange
views with the Bank on a proposed tariff structure designed
progressively to reduce subsidies on such service.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date CWU         o\ l   w is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius


﻿10 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              249 EXTERN
Port Louis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
MAURITIUS
By          )A
Authorized Representativb
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                 Iq6 d   lv   N. I&~AV
[NC"k    Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Tour Koenig, Parts
A (1), A (2) and A (5)
of the Project:
(a) Development works          805,000        80%
(b) Engineering                 95,000        100% of foreign
and supervision                          expenditures
or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Land valuation,                 350,000        100% of foreign
Part G of the                                 expenditures
Project                                       or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Part B of the Project:
(a) Housing credits          5,900,000        80% of dis-
bursements'by
MHC
(b)  Extension                  20,000        80%
training


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(4) Part C (1) of the
Project
(a) Rehabilitation           1,450,000        80%
works
(b) Engineering and            170,000        100% of foreign
supervision                              expenditures
or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(5) Part D of the Project:
(a) Transport improve-                        100% of foreign
ment and traffic                         expenditures
management                               or, if procured
locally, 80% of
(i) Civil works           150,000        local expendi-
tures
(ii) Equipment             760,000
(b) Transport study,           600,000        100% of foreign
engineering and                          expenditures
training                                 or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(6) Part E of the Project:                         80%
(a) Workshop exten-             70,000
sion
(b) Equipment                  400,000
(c) Training                    60,000
(7) Part F of the Project:          210,000        100% of foreign
Consultants'                                  expenditures
services                                      or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(8) Part A (4) of the Project:
(a) Electrical works           280,000        80%
(b) Engineering and             30,000        100% of foreign
supervision                              expenditures
or, if procured
locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(9) (a) Water supply works,         370,000        80%
Part A (3) and C (2)
of the Project
(b) Engineering and             50,000        100% of foreign
supervision, Parts                       expenditures
A (3) and C (2)                          or, if procured
of the Project                           locally, 80% of
local expendi-
tures
(10) Refunding of advance           150,000        Amount due
for preparation of                            under Sec-
the Project                                   tion 2.02 (b)
at Effec-
tive Date
(11) Unallocated                  3,080,000
TOTAL
15,000,000
2.   To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (10)
above shall be in excess of the amount due, the balance will be
transferred to Category (11).


﻿- 14 -
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made.for:
(a) part B of the Project until the Bank has been notified
by the Saudi Fund that all conditions precedent to initial dis-
bursement of its loan to the Borrower for the Project have been
fulfilled;
(b) any part of the Project to be carried out by MHC, CEB,
CWA or Port Louis until such parties shall have entered into
their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower under
the conditions set forth in Section 3.01 (c) and (d) of this
Agreement;
(c) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equi-
valent of $1,500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1),
(3), (4), (5), (7), (8) and (9) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after May 31, 1980;
or
(d) Part E of the Project until adequate additional land for
solid waste disposal has been acquired by Port Louis.


﻿- 15 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting a.y other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to strengthen institutions f or
urban planning, development and maintenance and to assist in
establishing sound and replicable practices for the provision of
utilities, urbanized land and housing in existing and new areas.
The Project includes the following:
Part A:
Land development at La Tour Koenig, including: (1) develop-
ment of about 740 residential sites; (2) construction of roads,
sidewalks, sewerage and drainage; (3) installation of water
supply; (4) installation of street lighting and consumer electric
supply; and (5) construction of community facilities.
Part B:
A program, to be carried out by MHC, of credits for home
repair and reconstruction and for extensions and construction of
new housing, including that at La Tour Koenig, under the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; training of
housing extension workers.
Part C:
Rehabilitation of: (1) storm drainage and sewerage; and
(2) water supply at the estates of Borstal, Vallijee, Roche
Bois and La Cure.
Part D:
Improvements in vehicular traffic facilities in and between
Port Louis and Curepipe, including designation of one-way streets,
modification of parking patterns, provision of reversible lanes,
improvements of intersections and of signals, the carrying out of
a feasibility study and of the detailed engineering for a new
bridge at Grand River Northwest and the carrying out of an island-
wide public transport study; training of personnel of the National
Transport Authority and of the Transport Management Unit of the
Ministry of Works.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:
Improvements in solid waste disposal in Port Louis, including
improvements in management, training of personnel, procurement of
vehicles, equipment and maintenance facilities and the acquisition
of additional disposal areas.
Part F:
Establishment, within the Borrower's Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development of a National Physical Development Unit
charged with the preparation and coordination of implementation of
the National Physical Development Plan by the Ministries and
organizations concerned, such unit to be staffed and to operate
under terms of reference agreed to between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Part G:
Conducting an island-wide valuation of non-urban land and
establishment of administrative and registration procedures, under
the Borrower's Ministry of Housing, Lands and Town and Country
Planning.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1985
through   August 15, 1997                     575,000
On February 15, 1998                               625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         3.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                  8.15%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                  9.25%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods for Part E of the Project as well as any contract for
civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000
and miscellaneous equipment other than traffic signaling equipment


﻿- 21 -
which, after grouping, is estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent, may be procured under the Borrower's procedures
applicable to competitive bidding.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account


﻿- 22 -
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification; waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil Works included in Parts D and E of the Project may be
carried out by the Borrower's Ministry of Works and by Port Louis,
respectively, under force account.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Policies and Procedures for
Housing Credits
In carrying out Part B of the Project, MHC will follow
the policies and procedures set out below:
1.   MHC will continue to follow the procedures in operation at
the date of this Agreement with respect to: applications for
credits, processing of such applications and inspections of
building activities (including work in progress and completed
construction) for housing mortgages financed by MHC. Should
MHC propose to modify these procedures prior to completion of
Part B of the Project, it shall discuss such changes with the Bank
prior to doing so.
2.   When processing applications for housing credits, MHC will
give priority to registered cyclone victims applying for credits
prior to December 31, 1980.
3.   Not less than 50% of the amount of all housing credits made
in fiscal 1981 by MHC, 55% in fiscal 1982 and 60% in fiscal 1983,
shall be made to families earning up to Rs 1,200 per month in June
1980 prices, or such other limits and income ceilings as shall be
agreed with the Bank. Out of the balance in each year, priority
will be given to the lower income groups above Rs 1,200.
4.   The maximum amount for any housing credit made by MHC to
any beneficiary utilizing proceeds of the Loan shall be Rs 50,000
in June 1980 prices.
5.   The lending rate charged by MHC to its borrowers will vary,
but the average rate will not be less than MHC's average cost of
capital plus a margin of at least 2-1/2 percentage points, and the
lowest rate, not less than the discount rate of the Bank of
Mauritius plus a margin of 1-1/2 percentage points. For such
purpose the following will apply:
(a) average cost of capital will be computed by dividing the
total of all interest, commissions, and other charges
payable on debt in any given year by the average of
the balances outstanding of all debt payable, including
deposits and other forms of investors' savings, at the
beginning and end of such year; and


﻿- 24 -
(b) average rate of interest on lending operations will
be computed by dividing the total of all interest,
commissions, and other charges receivable on out-
standing debt during any given year by the average of
the principal amounts outstanding at the beginning and
end of such year.
6.   MHC will take steps to reach a debt-equity ratio of 4:1 in
respect of fiscal 1984. For the purposes of such computation:
(i) Debt means the sum of all liabilities outstanding at June 30
of any year, excluding customers' savings; and (ii) Equity means
the sum of all customers' savings, reserves, capital and retained
earnings outstanding at June 30 of such year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     d    day of      , 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


