Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5442-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
April 24, 1985
Population, Health & Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah
US$1.00 = RP 1,100
1,000,000 RP - US$909.00
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND INITIALS
ADB                      Asian Development Bank
AKPER                    Nursing Academy
BAPPENAS                 National Development Planning Agency
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
INSTALMED                Public Works Unit
IUD                      IntraUterine Device
LAN                   :  Institute of Public Administration
LCB                    : Local Competitive Bidding
MCH                    : Maternal and Child Health
MOH                    : Ministry of Health
MOPE                   : Ministry of Population and Environment
NFPCB                  : National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PCM                      Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PIMPRO                 : Provincial Project Officer
PKMD                  : Village Community Health Development Program
PUSDIKLAT              : Center for Education and Training of Health
Personnel
PUSDIKNAKES              Center for Education of Health Manpower
REPELITA                 Five-Year Development Plan
SKN                      National Health System
SPK                      Nursing School
UNICEF                   United Nations Children's Fund
UPGK                     Family Nutrition Improvement Program
USAID                    United States Agency for International Development
VCDC                     Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO                      World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:                US$39 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
Project Description:  The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) help
expand the output and improve the quality of Ministry
of Health (MOR) paramedical manpower through
(i) strengthening the Center for Education of Health
Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) by local and overseas training
and local and foreign technical assistance; (ii) pro-
viding new and/or improved physical facilities for 32
schools and academies in 18 provinces; and (iii) car-
rying out three studies required to further develop
manpower development policies for the government's
fifth Five-Year Development Plan, 1989-1994 (Repelita
V) and beyond; and (b) help expand the capacity for
and improve the quality of MOH's in-service education
and training through (i) strengthening the Center for
Education and Training of Health Personnel
(PUSDIKLAT) by local and overseas training and local
and foreign technical assistance; and (ii) providing
new and/or improved physical facilities for eight
in-service training centers. The principal direct
benefits of the project would be: expansion of the
quantity and improvement of the quality of para-
medicAl manpower in the health system; institutional
strengthening of the MOR's newly-established centers
for in.-service and pre-service paramedical training;
and contribution to the health manpower policy formu-
lation process for Repelita V and beyond. Because
this would be the first Bank-financed project under-
taken by two recently established Centers, there is a
prima facie risk of some delay in project implementa-
tion and of its institution-building goals not being
met. The advanced status of preparation of the
project's physical infrastructure components and the
technical assistance to be provided to the two
Centers would reduce this risk.
This docnuent Ias a restricd disribution and may be used by recipients only in the prformance of
thdir ffecih dutie. Its ontents may not otherwise be disdosed without World Dank authorization.



Estiuated Costs a/
. .   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
- Local      Foreign     Total
(US$MiUilon) -
A. Pre-Service Health Manpower Development
I*  Institutional Strengthening              1.0         3.0         4.0
2.  Paramedical Trainig InstitutLons    24.8            11.4        36.2
3.  Studies                                 -            0.2         0.2
Subtotal                              25.8         14.6        40.4
B. In-Service Health Personnel Development
1.  Institutional Strengthening             0.4          1.7         2.1
2.  In-Service Training Centers             8.3          2.5        10.8
Subtotal                               8.7          4.2        12.9
Total Base Coast                      34.5         18.8        53.3
Physical Contingencies                     3.3           1.4        4.7
Price Contingencies                        5.2          2.7         7.9
Total Prolect Cost                    43.0         22.9        65.9
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
-     (US$Million)
IBRD                                      17.1         21.9        39.0
Government                                25.9           1.0       26.9
Total                                 43.0         22.9        65.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
-1 TUS$ million)-
Annual                             7.0    13.3    10.5       5.9     2.3
Cumulative                         7.0    20.3    30.8    36.7    39.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
a/ Net of duties and taxes.



- iII -
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANFOVER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sumary  .... ..........                        1
Table of Contents   ................*                         iii
Basic Data  ....a..a...............a..a.. a.......              v
Definitc ons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            vi
I.     INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            I
II.    SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
A. The Health Sector in Indonesia . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Population Status  . . . .. ..........                       2
Health Status  ...................                           3
Nutrition Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3
lealtholcids .................P s                            4
Health Organizationa .  ..S. em . . .;  . . . . . . .        5
Health Financing.  ..............                            7
Recent Developments (Repellta IV)  . .  .  . . . .           8
B. Health Manpower  ....   & a,            *        ...            8
Long-Term Health Manpower Development Plan . . . .           9
Paramedical Mmnpower Training  .     .    .. ...            11
Issues and Constraints ........ .. . . .         .          13
C. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy  . . . . . . . . .           14
III.   THEPROECT  . . . . . .6a *             . .                         15
A. Project Concept and Main Features  . . . . . . . . .           15
B. Detailed Project Description . . . . . . . .   . . . .         16
Pre-Service Paramedical HeaLth Manpower Development         16
In-Service Health Personnel Development                     20
This report is based an the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in October/November, 1984  The personnel involved were: Mr.
D. Pearce (mission leader), Mo. N. Sirur (PHN); and Messrs. J.E. Lundeberg
and J. Nelson (consultants).  Dr. B.H. Liese and Ms. L. Domingo (PHN)
assisted in project identification and preparation.



- iv -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
A.  Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        22
B.  Financing Plan  . u   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     25
C. Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .       26
D. Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . ,. . *. . . . . . .         28
E.  Accounts and Audit   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . .      29
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . .         29
A. Project Organization and Management . . . . . . . . .         29
B. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        30
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS      . . . ...........                 31
A. Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
B. Project Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . .         32
ANNEXES
1. Existing and Planned MOR Manpower, by Category  . . . . . .        34
2. Project Costs and Financing (COSTAB)  . . . . . . . a . . .        37
3.  Implementation Schedule   . . . . .  a . . . .  .  . . . . . .    43
4. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File . . .        47
CHARTS
C-1. Organigram of Ministry of Health  . . . . . . . . . . . .        49
C-2. Organigram of Center for Education of Health Manpower . .        50
C-3. Organigram of Center for Education and Training of Health
Personnel   .      . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  .   . .51
MAP
IBRD No. 18796R



- v -
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousands kW2) . .  . . . .   a a .  .      a. a .   a .   .   1,919
Total population (mid-1982 in millions)  .      . .    . . . . .      152.6
Density per k22 ()ld-1982)   .2.. .    .      . .                     78
Density per ko2 of agricultural land (mid-1982)   . . . . . .        471
Annual rate of natural increaRe (1982) (Z) . . . . . . . . . .         2.1
Crude birth rate (1982)  . . .           .......... . . . . . .       34
Crude death rate (1982)   .          . . . . .  . . .       .          13
Life expectancy at birth (1982) (years)  . . .  . .   . . . . .       53
Infant mortality rate (1982) . . . . . . . . .        .....           102
Child mortality rate (1982)   .. .. ..   . . ... .  . .                13
Maternal mortality rate (1982)  .. ..... ... .a                        3
Urban population as percentage of total population (1982)  . .        22
Adult literacy rate (1981) (X) . .       .    .    .  . *..   .       62
Population per physician (1979)  . . . .   ... .   .5  *   *  11,530
Nutrition:
Daily calorie supply per capita (1981)        .       .    .  .  .   2,342
As percentage of requirement (1981)  .   .   . . . . . .  .         110
Per capita GNP (1982 in US$) a.  *****a       ** a...... a ....... 580



- vi -
DEFINITIONS
Child Hortality Rate:         Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1,000
children in the same age group.
Crude Death Rate:             Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate:        Annual deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:    Number of years a new-born child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:      Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births in
a given year attribatable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Dinas Kesehatan:              Province Realth Officer.
Dukun:                        Traditional healer.
Kakanwil:                     KOH Provincial Officer.
Kanwil.                       MOH Provincial Office.
Panca Karya Husada:           Five key principles of health policy.
Pekarya Kesehatan:            Auxiliary health workers.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Over the past 10 years, Indonesia's public health system, in
particular its rural health service delivery network of health centers and
subcenters, has expanded quite rapidly. Despite substantial increases in
the output of health manpower of all kinds during this period, manpower
demand, particularly for nurses and other technical paramedicals, began to
exceed supply. This emerging paramedical manpower shortage has now become
a serious problem in three important respects: first, the poor quality of
basic health services available at health centers and subcenters, which,
indirectly, affects their credibility in the eyes of the population served;
second, the inability of the rural health service delivery system to meet
the growing demand for clinical family planning services to supplement the
distribution of contraceptive pills through the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board's (NFPCB) village contraceptive distribution centers;
and third, the lack of health center and sub-center staff required to
provide technical, supervisory, referral and logistical outreach support to
existing village-level primary health care activities. In addition to this
quantitative problem, the calibre of available paramedical manpower is low,
owing to the absence of systematic in-service education and training, their
poor management and technical supervision, and their limited prospects for
career development and continuing education, except in the main urban
areas.
1.02      During the early 1980s, the Ministry of Health (MOH) began, for
the first time in a rigorous way, to address health manpower development
problems and short- and longer-term objectives, with technical assistance
from USAID and WHO.  In this connection, a Bank mission visited Jakarta in
late 1981 to review paramedical manpower demand and supply and to assess
MOH education and training policies. Following this mission and the
completion of a MOH long-term health manpower development plan in early
1983, project preparation was initiated-during the last quarter of 1983.
Its size and composition emerged from joint discussions between the Bank
and the government of long- and short-term priorities and from consider-
ation of the financial and technical assistance already available or plan-
ned by other external aid agencies involved, mainly the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the World Health Organization
(WHO), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB). A preparation mission visited Indonesia in March/April
1984 and a Bank-financed consultant assisted in further preparation in July
1984. The project was appraised in October/November 1984.
1.03      The health manpower development project described later in this
report is one of three operations currently being processed which together
constitute a coordinated package of Bank financial and technical assistance
to Indonesia's population, health and nutrition sectors and institutions,
the NFPCB and the MOH. The fourth population project (Report No. 5404-IND)
addresses the institutional development needs of the NFPCB itself, and also
of the Ministry of Population and Environment (MOPE); the health manpower
development project deals with the MOH's needs for more and better quali-
fied paramedical staff as noted in para. 1.01 above; and a proposed second
nutrition and community health project, appraised in March 1985 will, in
part, address the government's policy of integrating, or seeking to



- 2 -
coordinate better, village-level primary health care programs (including
family planning and nutrition services) and the support they receive and
need from the NFPCB, the MOH and other government agencies. This sequence
of projects and the linkages between them support the integrated view of
population, health and nutrition sector issues and development reflected in
the government's fourth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV).
II. SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. The Health Sector in Indonesia 1/
Population Status
2.01      Indonesia's population of about 152.6 million (mid-1982)
increased at an annual average rate of 2.1% between 1961-70 and 2.3%
between 1971-80. However, this increase in the average growth rate between
the two decades as a whole masks a significant declining trend in annual
growth rates during the latter period: from 2.6% in 1970 to 2.1% by 1980,
owing to lower fertility which, in turn, is attributable inter alia to
rising average age of marriage and to increasing and widespread contra-
ceptive use, particularly in Java and Ball. Assuming a reduced 1.9Z
average annual growth rate through the rest of this century, Indonesia's
population is projected to increase to 179 million by 1990 and to about 212
million by the year 2000. In addition to the population's absolute size,
the fifth largest in the world, and still high growth rate, two other demo-
graphic factors have important implications for the country's overall
development efforts: regional extremes in density, ranging from an average
of 690 persons per km2 in Java, where over 602 of all Indonesians live on
less than 7% of the country's total land area, to about 3 in Irian Jay*
which accounts for more than 20% of total land area; and, increasing urban-
ization, owing partly to rural-urban migration and partly to higher birth
rates in urban, compared to rural, areas. In 1982, urban dwellers account-
ed for about 22% of total population (up from 15% In 1960) and this propor-
tion is expected to Increase to about 36% by the year 2000. The main goals
of Indonesia's comprehensive population policy are to reduce further the
overall rate of population growth and to improve its distribution; the
government's family planning and transmigration programs are the principal
instruments of this policy.
1/ A more detailed treatment of population, health and nutrition status
and sectoral development issues is given in the following Bank reports:
Indonesia - Health Sector Overview (Report No. 2379-IND); Indonesia -
Appraisal of Provincial Health Project (Report No. 4131-IND); and,
Indonesia - Appraisal of Fourth Population Project (Report No.
5404-INn). Data cited in paras. 2.01-2.04 are from World Development
Report 1984.



3-
Health Status
2.02      Despite considerable improvements during the last 20 years, the
overall health status of Indonesla's population remainM far from satisfac-
tory and is inferior to that of comparable lower income countries. In
1982, life expectancy at birth was 53 years, up from 41 years two decades
earlier; the crude death rate was 13 per thousand, about 43X lover than In
1960; and the infant mortality and child death rates were about 102 per
thousand live births and 13 per thousand children aged 1-4 years respec-
tively, compared to 150 and 23 in 1960. Significant disparities exist In
both mortality and morbidity among Indonesia's widely dispersed regions
and, within regions and provinces, between the rural and urban areas--with
the average urban resident in Java enjoying much better health status and
access to health services than the average rural dweller in the Other
Islands. For example, life expectancy at birth in Yogyakarta is 61 years
(1980), and in Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggars only 52 years and 44 years
respectively.
2.03       Although Indonesia's epidemiological profile has not changed
markedly during the last decade or so, sore differences In disease patterns
between the economically more advanced urban centers and the less developed
rural areas are starting to emerge. Assuming continued socio-economic
development and increasing urbanization, this trend can be expected to
continue and to have Important consequences for the longer-term development
of the country's health system. In the short- and ediur-term, however,
the most prevalent causes of overall morbidity and mortality continue to
include respiratory and gastro-intestinal diseases. skin and eye Infec-
tLons, Intestinal parasites, and vector-borne diseases, principally
malarla. Up to one-half of total mortality (about 992,000 deaths per
annum) occurs among children below 5 years of age; and, the leading causes
of death among infants (0-12 months) are diarrhea, lower respiratory infec-
tions and neonatal tetanus. It is estlamted that about 802 of the over
half a million Infant deaths per annum could be avoided through simple,
low-cost therapy and prevention. Considering the high levels of Infant and
child mortality, the fact that less than half of pregnant women receive
baslc prenatal care, and that only about 152 of all deliveries are attended
by trained personnel of any kind, Improved maternal and child health (MCH)
services are an obvious priority.
Nutrition Status
2.04      Although, with recent increases In food production, the daily per
capita calorie supply In 1981 (2,342) was 1102 of the recommended level,
protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) remains a relatively serious problem.
This is largely due to problems of distribution, both among and within
families. Current estimates indicate that 152 of the population or about
23 million people, principally the urban poor, swall landholders and the
rural landless, are malnourished and that, within families, women and
children under 5 years are most likely to receive insufficient calories and
protein. Indeed, available survey data show that nationwide about 7
million children aged 1-5 years. or about 30X of all preschoolers, suffer



from PCH. With regard to micro-niutrients, vitamin A, iron and iodine are
the most important deficiencies. According to 1979 MOH estimatem, 15
million people. or 10% of the population, had some form of eye infection or
blindness due to vitamin A deficiency; iron-deficiency anemia was found in
28-52% of male workers and in 35-85% of non-pregnant women; and iodine
defiency. which can cause goiter and contribute to cretinism, was found in
50% of those surveyed in Java, Bali and Sumatra.
Health Policies
2.05      Throughout the 1960s and during the early years of Repelita I
(1969-74), the government assigned relatively low priority to health and
and other social sectors. Public health activities focussed mainly on
health education and the prevention of epidemics; consequently, only
modest attention was paid to the development of hospital or rural health
services.   During Repelita II (1974-79) however, a period of rapid
economic growth, it accorded high priority to Improving access to health
ser.'ices, particularly in rural areas, and, by the late 1970u, each of the
country's 3,400 subdistricts had at least one public health center. In
addition, total public health personnel nearly doubled; about 47,000 tradi-
tional healers (dukuns) and birth attendants were trained; and legislation
was promulgated obligating graduating physicians to serve in rural areas
for between 2-5 years at least, depending on the province to which they
were posted. This expansion of physical and human resources was accompa-
nied by measures to reduce financial disincentives to health service utili-
zation: in 1979, health center consultation fees were reduced from Rp. 450
to Rp. 150 (USs0.45 to US$0.15 equivalent). Despite these developments,
the public health system's effectiveness, and specifically the utilization
of its hospitals, health centers and subcenters, remained limited-owing
partly to sociocultural and behavioral factors, which will only gradually
be overcome, and partly to the poor quality of their services, mainly a
function of inadequate numbers of qualified personnel. During Repelita III
(1979-84). the government's three main priorities were: to continue improv-
Ing accesS to health services (particularly In the Other Islands); to
strengthen the referral system by improving the efficiency and effective-
ness of health facilities; and, to promote improved family health behavior
and practices In the community itself through village-level primary health
care programs. In this latter connection, considerable initial progress
has been achieved In community-level family planning, health and nutrition
education and motivation activities--by the NFFCB through Its village
contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs), by the MOH Family Nutrition
Improvement Program (UPGK) through nutrition education for mothers and
children at its village weighing posts, and by the HOH Village Community
Health Development Program (PKMD) (para. 7.10 below). These advances were
accompanied by significant investments in primary and secondary education
and in rural water supply and sanitation, as part of the government's
overall approach to improving social infrastructure and services in the
rural areas. The government's health priorities and goals for Repelita IV
(1984-89) are elaborated further in paras. 2.12-2.13 below.



-5-
Health Organization and System
2.06      The MOR is responsible for the formulation and implementation of
national health policy and for the overall administration, coordination and
management of the country's health system. It is headed by the Minister,
responsible to the President, and consists of the Secretary-General, the
Inspector-General, and four Directorates-General: for Community Health,
Medical Care, Communicable Diseases and Environmental Health, and Food and
Drugs. The Secretariat-General consists of Bureaus for Planning,
Personnel, Finance, Logistics, Health Legislation and Public Information,
Organization, and General Affairs. An Institute of Health Research and
Development, comprising five separate units, is responsible for health
research and its Head reports to the Minister. Finally, there are five
recently established centers, each responsible directly to the Minister, as
follows: the Data Center, the Health Laboratory Center, the Community
Health Education Center, the Center for Education of Health Manpower and
the Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel. An MOH organi-
gram, reflecting its recent reorganization (Decree No. 15/1984 dated March
6, 1984), is attached as Chart 1.
2.07      At the provincial level, there is a dual management system for
public health services, as is the case in some other sectors, comprising:
an MOH Provincial Officer (Kakanwil), technically responsible to the
Minister of Health, and a Province Health Officer (Dinas Kesehatan),
administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor. In practice, one
official is both MOR Provincial Officer and Province Health Officer. The
Kakanwil's office comprises an administrative division, which includes
units for personnel, budget, logistics, and general affairs, and four
divisions for planning, medical services, communicable disease control, and
food and drugs. Specific programs or projects are the responsiblity of
project cfficers (PIMPROs), who are appointed by and report to the
Kakanwil. The Province Health Officer is responsible for overall coordina-
tion of all public health services in the province. A similar structure
prevails at the district level, where the district medical officer is
responsible for coordination and execution of all health services at
district, subdistrict and community/village level.
2.08      Indonesia's health care delivery system consists of a network of
primary, secondary and tertiary facilities. However, the principal source
of modern public health services for the 120 million Indonesians who live
in rural areas is the primary-level system of health centers, subcenters
and mobile centers under the technical responsibility of the Directorate-
General of Community Health. Health centers provide basic medical care,
MCH services, family planning services, communicable disease control
(including immunizations), hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, community
health education, school health and dental treatment. Their staff are also
responsible for recording vital statistics and health information report-
ing. According to current MOR standards, the number and type of para-
medical staff varies according to region: up to 14 (5 nurses, 7 auxiliary
health workers, I sanitarian and 1 dental nurse) in the 2,556 health



-6-
centers located in Java and Bali; an average of 8-9 (3 nurses, 4
auxiliaries, I sanitarian and ' dental nurse) in the 1,113 centers in North
and South Sulawesi, North, South and West Sumatra, and Lampung; and 5-6 (2
nurses, 2 auxiliaries, 1 sanitarian and 1 dental nurse) in the remaining
1,684 centers in other provinces. In practice, however, and except for
auxiliaries, these staffing standards are satisfied only in the larger,
urbanized communities, owing to a shortage of fully qualified nurses and
other technical paramedicals. Most health centers are currently staffed on
average by 1 or 2 nurses and a few auxiliaries, supervised in about 80% of
centers by recently graduated physicians fulfilling their rural service
obligation. In 1983/84, there were about 5,353 health centers throughout
the country, serving an average population varying from 8,000 to 35,000 per
center, according to province. Although the MOH's policy objective of one
health center per 30,000 population has been achieved as a national
average, coverage is significantly less in West, Central and East Java and
North Sumatra (1 per 30-45,000 population). During Repelita IV, MOH plans
to construct 500 new health centers, of which about 200 in these four pro-
vinces; and, to add in-patient facilities (10-15 beds) to about 170 exist-
ing centers, makiag a total of about 300 centers (5% of the total by
1988/89) with an in-patient capability. In the longer-term, MDR plans to
have 20% of all health centers with such in-patient facilities, for which a
necessary criterion is a minimum full-time staff of one doctor and six
nurses.
2.09      Below and linked to health centers, 1'..alth subceiters in the main
villages provide basic MCH care, including vaccination and health educa-
tion. Each subcenter, of which there were 13,636 in 1983/84 serving an
average population varying from 3,000 to 10,000, is supposed to be staffed
by 1 nurse and 1-2 auxiliaries, according to region. However, many sub-
centers function only on certain days of the week, owing to staff
shortages. During Repelita IV, MOH plans to build 6,000 new subcenters,
making a total of about 19,636 by 1988/89, at which time its objective of
3-4 satellite subcenters per health center would be substanitally
achieved. Finally, there were about 2,479 mobile health centers in
1983/84, consisting of an ambulance staffed by a doctor, nurse, auxiliary,
sanitarian and driver, and based either at a local district hospital or a
health center. An additional 1,500 mobile centers, which provide only
basic health care to surrounding villages, are planned to be introduced
during Repelita IV.
2.10      The outreach of this primary-level system of health centers and
subcenters to the community has been an important government concern during
the last few years. In 1977, a Village Community Health Development
Program (PKMD) was introduced, under which village health volunteers were
selected by the community and given limited training in nearby health
centers. The volunteer was expected to provide, on a part-time basis,
simple preventive and curative care, be responsible for about 30 families,
and be paid in cash or kind by the community. To date, this program has
achieved modest success. Although MOB originally planned to train about
100,000 volunteers from 5,000 villages to cover 6% of the population by



- 7 -
1983/84, PKMD activities had been initiated in only about 700 villages by
early 1982. Qualitatively, the program was found to have had positive
results in some pilot villages but an evaluation conducted under UNICEF
auspices in 1982 suggested that its replicability and extension would
depend upon the degree of community involvement and political commitment of
the kind enjoyed by the family planning program, and adequate technical,
supervisory, referral and logistic support, as well as continuous education
and supervision from the health center system. Furthermore, the effective-
ness of the PKMD program had been further inhibited by the fact that volun-
teers had to work alongside paid family planning, nutrition and community
development workers. For all these reasons, a very high drop-out rate was
experienced. In the circumstances, the evaluation concluded that further
development of these and similar initiatives based on volunteer efforts
should be acc'iipanied by adequate support from health centers and sub-
centers which, in turn, must be appropriately staffed by professionally
trained health workers, i.e. nurses and technical paramedicals. Experience
with similar outreach programs and efforts in other countries supports the
validity of these findings. The government's strategy during Repelita IV
is to integrate, or coordinate better the delivery of, village-level
primary health care services at existing village service delivery points--
either NFPCB's village contraceptive distribution centers or the MOH's
village weighing posts (UPGK).
Health Financing
2.11      Total health expenditure in 1982/83 was an estimated Rp. 1,482
billion (US$1.35 billion equivalent), or about Rp. 9,712 (US$8.83 equiva-
lent) per capita, and 2.7% of GDP. Although per capita expenditure has
probably doubled in real terms since 1972/73, Indonesia still spends signi-
ficantly less on health than many other countries at comparable income
levels. Private sources of funding (household payments for private and
public services, drug purchases and insurance contributions) account for
about 64% of total health expenditure and the private sector provides about
59% of the country's health services, almost exclusively in the main urban
areas; by contrast, the public sector is the principal source of modern
health services for the 120 million IndonesiL2s living in rural areas.  In
this connection, public health expenditure--per capita, as a proportion of
GDP and of total central government spending-remains extremely low in
relation to other comparable countries. For example, although the health
sector's share of total central government expenditure increased from about
2% in 1977/78 to about 2.5% in 1981/82, it remained substantially below the
levels allocated in China (4.9%), the Philippines (5.0%) and Thailand
(4.3%) in '981. Health sector financing issues in Indonesia are extremely
complex and, given the population's low health status and the country's
currently constrained resource position, increasingly important. The
government, specifically BAPPENAS and the MOH, has begun to address some of
these issues (health insurance, the recurrent cost implications of the
Repelita IV health sector investment program, and the pattern of central
and provincial government funding of health services) with technical
assistance from USAID, WHO and, in the context of economic and sector work,
from the Bank.



-8-
Recent Developments (Repelita IV)
2.12      In 1982, the MO  finalized a policy document entitled National
Health System (SKN) which, for the first time, establishes a broad
conceptual foundation for the long-term development of Indonesia's health
system. In addition, it provides a planning and programming framework for
Repelita IV within the perspective of specific national public health goals
to be achieved by the year 2000. The latter include: an increase in
average life expectancy at birth to 60 years; a reduction in infant
mortality to 45 per thousand live births; a 502 reduction in the incidence
of most communicable diseases; and, a 67% reduction in proteinr-calorie
malnutrition in children under five years. The realism or otherwise of
these long-term goals is difficult to determine, owing inter alia to the
lack of accurate base-line data for these indicators. Moreover, the MOH
and BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning Agency) have only recently
begun to assess their feasibility in terms of the financial resources
required and available. On the other hand, there is no question about
their appropriateness in terms of the population's basic needs, nor about
their complementarity to the government's demographic or fertility
reduction goals. The definition of long-term objectives is also an
essential prerequisite for establishing political commitment and for
medium-term planning.
2.13      Against this background, Repelita IV identifies five key
principles (Panca Karya Husada) as the basis of health sector policies,,
programs and activities during the 1984-89 period, as follows:
(a) strengthening health service delivery, including measures to support
and expand primary health care activities at the comounity/village level;
(b) strengthening health manpower development; (c) expanding activities to
improve nutrition, potable water supply, and environmental health;
(d) establishing programs to strengthen the overall management of the
health system; and (e) improving the supply, distribution and quality of
drugs, medicines and medical equipment. The establishment of health
manpower development as the second-highest priority is, in the context of
Indonesia's health sector, significant evidence of political and bureau-
cratic commitment. In view of its relevance to the background and ratio-
nale for the project and loan recommended later in this report, health
manpower is discussed in more detail in paras. 2.14-2.27 below.
B. Health Manpower
2.14      During Repelitas II and III, while the rapid development of the
primary-level system of health centers and subcenters was underway, it was
recognized that the potential of these service facilities would not be
fully realized unless similar efforts were made to develop sufficient
numbers of adequately trained personnel. However, despite substantial
increases in health manpower (albeit from a very low base), it was clear by
the early 1980s that the demand of the public health system (including
hospitals) for nurses and other technical paramedicals was outstripping the
supply. In addition, the quality of available paramedical manpower was



- 9 -
low, owing to the absence of systematic in-service education and training,
poor management and technical supervision, low salaries, and their limited
prospects for career development and continuing education, except in the
main urban areas. Finally, a reduction in the number of different cate-
gories of nurses--from 22 to 2--and corresponding adjustments in nursing
schools and curricula temporarily exacerbated both the supply and the
quality problems. In the circumstances, during Repelita III, the MOE
began, for the first time in a systematic way, to address these problems
and to consider both short- and longer-term health manpower development
objectives. One of its first steps was to prepare an inventory of existing
manpower of all kinds and, taking into account the long-term national
public health goals noted above (para. 2.12), to develop alternative
projections of requirements for Repelita IV and beyond. At the same time,
and with assistance from USAID, WHO, and a Bank mission that visited
Jakarta in late 1981, it began the process of assessing both qualitative
and systemic issues.
2.15      The report and principal short-term recommendations of the
above-mentioned Bank mission may be summarized as follows: (a) the output
of community health and hospital nurses should be increased through the
establishment of additioral nursing schools (SPKs) and academies (AKPERs)
respectively, in the provinces of greatest need; (b) the output of tech-
nical paramedicals (dental nurses, laboratory assistants, pharmacists,
radiologists, physiotherapists, anesthesiologists, medical analysts and
health inspectors/sanitarians) should also be increased through the
establishment of additional schools (public and private); (c) the quality
of all categories of health manpower (graduate and paramedical) should be
improved through the establishment of additional in-service training
centers; and (d) the management of health facilities, specifically
hospitals, and the supervision of health manpower in hospitals and health
centers should be strengthened through: the establishment of a new cadre of
professionally trained hospital managers/administrators; the creation of a
functional supervisory hierarchy within the nursing stream; and the expan-
sion of management training seminars, particularly at the provincial
level. In addition, the report included a number of longer-term policy and
process recommendations: the creation of a single, national health manpower
data base and information system; the development of career development,
staff compensation, and continuing education policies and procedures for
all categories of health manpower; the improvement of coordination between
public and private sector training institutions in the interests of effi-
ciency, particularly in underserved provinces; and, the redefinition of
central and provincial roles and responsibilities for health manpower
education and training, in line with the government's and MOH's overall
decentralization strategy.
Long-Term Health Manpower Development Plan
2.16      Progress to date and the current status of MOH action on the
short- and longer-term recommendations outlined above include the follow-
ing. First, and understandably in light of the paramedical manpower



- 10 -
shortage that catalyzed the process, the MOR prepared a long-term health
manpower development plan covering the three Repelitas through the year
2000 (Repelitas IV-VI). This plan projects manpower requirements by cate-
gory and by program area based on the health status and health service
targets established for the three periods concerned. During Repelita IV,
for example, MOR plans to increase its overall manpower by about 75Z, from
about 162,000 at present to about 284,000 by 1988/89. Of this total, para-
medicals would double, from about 56,700 to about 114,700, of which nurses
would increase from about 44,650 to 76,240 (71%) and technical paramedicals
from about 12,050 to 38,460 (219%). In addition, the number of auxiliary
health workers (pekarya kesehatan) would increase from about 29,470 to
about 50,460 (71Z). A breakdown of existing (1983/84) and planned
(1988/89) health manpower by category and by program area is at Ar.nex 1,
Tables 1 and 2.
2.17      Second, and with reference to the short-term quality and manage-
ment/supervision recommendations noted above (para. 2.15), the MOB plans to
increase significantly both the capacity and the quality of its existing
in-service training system, partly with technical assistance already avail-
able from USAID (long-term) and WHO (short-term) and partly with financial
and technical assistance under the project described later in this report
and a project proposed by ADB. Third, MOn senior staff at the central,
provincial and district levels are undergoing training, individually and in
groups, at a variety of public health, management, and health planning
courses and seminars, both in-country and overseas, under USAID and WHO
auspices and with Bank assistance under the provincial health project (Loan
2235-IND). Fourth, with WHO technical assistance, a bachelor's degree-
level curriculum in nursing has been developed and was introduced at the
University of Indonesia, School of Public Health in 1984/85.
2.18      As far as the longer-term policy, process and institutional
development recommendations are concerned, the MOH is currently developing
a manpower data and information system as the necessary basis for defining
systematic personnel administration, staff compensation and career develop-
ment policies and procedures. This process is the main focus of a health
manpower planning technical assistance project financed by USAID. Second,
and with regard to training and organizational issues specifically, plans
are underway to establish provincial-level education and training divisions
starting in the Kanwils of five provinces (East, West and Central Java,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi) as a first step towards strengthening and
decentralizing responsibility for pre- and in-service training at the
provincial level. Finally, and in order to strengthen the MOH's central
managerial, supervisory and technical support for paramedical training and
for in-service education and training, the former Center for Education and
Training was reorganized in mid-1984 into two new a;.d expanded centers: one
for (pre-service) Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) and one for
(in-service) Education and Training of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT).
The establishment of separate centers for pre- and in-service training will
ensure that adequate attention is paid to both. Organigrams showing the
structure of PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIKLAT are attached as Charts 2 and 3,
respectively.



- 11 -
2.19      In summary, a very substantial agenda of health manpower develop-
ment work has been defined, within the framework of a long-term health
manpower development plan. Activities have been initiated in most of the
priority areas concerned, with existing and planned external financial and
technical assistance from USAID, WHO, the Bank and ADB. In this context,
the priority attached to increasing the supply of paramedical manpower
during Repelita IV is clearly warranted. The shortage of nurses, already
an acute problem in Repelita III (paras. 2.08-2.10), is likely to worsen as
needed increases in health centers and subcenters are undertaken during
Repelita IV. Currently, there is only one fully qualified nurse per 3,418
population nationwide and in some provinces (East, Central and West Java,
for example) the ratio is only one nurse per 6,113, 7,654 and 9,868 popula-
tion respectively. Moreover, of the total 42,400 nurses currently employed
by the MOH, about 31,700 or 75% work in hospitals and only 10,700 or 25% in
community health centers and subcenters--less than two on average per
health center and about 0.56 per health center/subcenter combined. Similar
shortages are evident in other paramedical specialities, including dental
nurses, sanitarians, assistant nutritionists, assistant pharmacists,
medical analysts, physiotherapists, assistant radiologists and laboratory
technicians, all of whom are needed in varying numbers for both the
primary-level network of health centers and subcenters (sanitarians and
dental nurses) and the secondary-level system of hospitals, clinics and
laboratories. In addition, the NFPCB's strategy to improve the quality of
family planning services (by promoting the use of more effective family
planning methods such as the IUD, injectables and implants) will generate
increasing demand for qualified nurses at health centers and subcenters.
Finally, as noted in para. 2.10 above, the success of village-level primary
health care programs is highly dependent on adequate support from health
centers and subcenters and the numbers and quality of their staff.
Paramedical Manpower Training
2.20      Paramedicals for all levels of the public health system are
recruited almost entirely from the 165 paramedical training schools and
academies operated by MOH central and provincial authorities. There are
also about 100 private institutions, including 59 nursing schools and 27
assistant pharmacists' schools, but their output is channeled mainly to the
private sector's hospitals and clinics in the main urban areas. Similarly,
the Armed Forces' 23 schools and academies provide staff for military
health facilities entirely. Annex 1, Table 3 lists the existing inventory
of paramedical training institutions by province and manpower category.
2.21      The MDH's institutions offer three-year courses to 120 students
(3 classes of 40 each), who must be Junior and senior high school graduates
before entering a school and an academy respectively. Both schools and
academies, although operated by the MOB, are accredited by the Ministry of
Education and Culture. Assuming an average annual attrition rate of about
three students per class (7.5%), the MOH estimates that up to about 6,100
paramedicals graduate each year from its 141 schools and 24 academies.
However, the quality of education offered is far from uniform, owing partly



- 12 -
to inadequate physical facilities and insufficient equipment, books and
teaching materials in many institutions. A significant proportion of all
schools and academies, perhaps as high as 40X, are housed in temporary
facilities, without proper demonstration or laboratory facilities, discus-
sion rooms and, in some cases, basic teaching space. Others, functioning
in MOR facilities designed originally for other purposes, lack sufficient
equipment, vehicles (for field practice), library books and other teaching
materials needed for a quality training program. In addition, many insti-
tutions, particularly those in rural areas, face shortages of full-time
teachers (the MOH's norm for schools is 1 full-time teacher per 10 students
and for academies 1 teacher per 6 students); they are therefore obliged to
operate with less than the required establishment of full-time teachers
(6-8 on average), relying on local medical practitioners, nurses, and other
health professionals to teach selected classes and subjects.
2.22      Against this background, and given the manpower goals established
for Repelita IV and beyond, the MOH's strategy for increasing the output of
paramedical manpower, while at the same time maintaining, if not improving,
its quality, may be summarized as follows. First, to help satisfy urgent,
short-term needs during Repelita IV, it has adopted two temporary expe-
dients: the introduction of "parallel classes," i.e. supplementary classes
of up to 40 students each in selected existing schools and academies; and,
the expansion of the category of auxiliary health workers (pekarya
kesehatan) who, with three months' basic training, will be posted as aides
to nurses and technical paramedical staff. To date, about 280 parallel
classes have been introduced in both MOH and private schools and academies,
and a total of about 300 is planned during Repelita IV: 220 in MOH
facilities and 80 in private institutions. Given the priority need for
nurses, about 85X of all parallel classes are or will be in nursing schools
and academies.  The MOH estimates that about 31,000 additional paramedicals
will have graduated from parallel classes by 1988/89 which, together with
regular class graduates (about 30,500 over 5 years), will result in a total
output of about 61,500 paramedicals during Repelita IV. The shortfall
between this output and the MOH's estimated manpower requirements for its
15 programs would be met through the training of "pekarya kesehatan."
2.23      Second, to expand its longer-term capacity for paramedical man-
power training, the MOH plans to increase the number of its schools and
academies. Based on existing academy/school size standards (120 students)
and estimated long-term manpower needs, the NOR has calculated that up to
about 260 additional schools and academies may be needed by the year 2000.
However, this long-term objective, and the assumptions on which it is
based, is essentially an indicative planning target and will need to be
reviewed periodically in the light of changing circumstances. Indeed, both
the recurrent cost implications of the long-term manpower plan and the
capital and recurrent costs of the additional training institutions
required will need to be analyzed during Repelita IV in terms of the
financial resources needed and available to the MOH. Meanwhile, the
government has sanctioned a limited investment program for 90 institutions
during Repelita IV: construction of 48 new schools and academies; and



- 13 -
rehabilitation or construction of permanent facilities for 42 existing
schools and academies currently functioning in temporary, borrowed facili-
ties. Some of the new academies will be developed in groups of two or
three technical stremss on the same site, partly for economy in construc-
tion and partly with a view to developing a common core curriculum and
teaching for the different technical sub-disciplies or 'streams" in these
"multi-st.eam" institutions.
2.24      Third, in order to increase the supply of full-time teachers, an
abbreviated three-month teacher training course has been introduced, toge-
ther with parallel streams in each of the four teacher-training schools'
regular one-year diploma courses. Teachers attending the three-month
course will cover substantially the same curriculum as the regular one-year
course, but with longer classes each day and reduced time available for
teaching practice and individual study.
2.25      Fourth, the MOH plans to strengthen significantly its In-service
education and training system, partly to strengthen the managerial and
supervisory skills of MOH staff as a whole and partly to remedy potential
deficiencies in pre-service paramedical training arising from the expanded
output descrlbed above. In this connection, it plans to increase the
number of in-service training centers, from 10 at present to 24 by the end
of Repelita IV and, ultimately, to 37, i.e. at least one per province. To
this end, improved curricula and courses are being developed centrally and
also, with USAID technical assistance, in selected provinces and a corps of
full-time trainers, themselves trained in adult learning and public health,
will be recruited to guide and supervise these centers.
2.26      Finally, as noted above (para. 2.18), two new centers have been
created at the central level to manage, supervise and coordinate the above
activities, In consultation with the province-level authorities concerned,
and, in the long-term, to guide and provide technical assistance to MOH's
schools, academies, and centers in the provinces.
Issues and Constralnts
2.27      The near-term paramedical manpower development strategy outlined
in paras. 2.22-2.26 above is reasonable and well justified in terms of
immediate needs during Repelita IV. It nevertheless raises several issues
and questions that will need to be addressed during this period. First
among these is the feasibility in terms of financial resources available
and required of the MOH's long-term health manpower development plan,
specifically the further growth in manpower envisaged during Repelitas V
and VI (1989-99). Given the country's overall resource constraints, the
impact of measures such as integrating village-level primary health care
services on the efficiency and effectiveness of health manpower, and the
potential role of the private sector, a mid-term review of these long-term
manpower targets will be needed. Second, and a related question, the cost-
effectiveness and technical advantages of a planned transition towards
multi-stream training institutions (para. 2.23 above) needs to be evalu-
ated, taking into account the constraints imposed by Indonesia's size,



- 14 -
diversity, and the relative immobility of its population. Third, with the
expansion of the category of auxiliary health workers (pekarya kesehatan),
their future role and career development prospects in the public health
system will require careful consideration and the development of a policy
and plans for their longer-term utilization and appropriate in--service
training. Finally, and of more immediate concern, is the question of
parallel classes. While parallel classes are acknnwledged to be a neces-
sary and temporary expedient aimed at increasing output of paramedicals,
particularly nurses, during the next five years, and their introduction may
well encourage increased efflciency in the use of training resources, there
is a need to assess their impact on both efficiency and training quality
during Repelita IV. Such an assessment should also consider the need for
and desirability of their continuation and, if so, on what basis, during
Repelita V. The government's plans for dealing with these issues, with
Bank assistance in the context of the proposed project, are described later
in this report.
C. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy
2.28      Bank Group assistance for population in Indonesia began in 1972
with a US$13.2 million credit for a first population project (300-IND).
Since then, two additional loans totalling US$59.5 million have been made
for second and third population projects (1472- and 1869-IND) and a US$46
million loan for a fourth population project is planned for presentation to
the Executive Directors on May 7, 1985. The principal objective of all
four population projects has been to develop the institutional capability
needed for planning, coordinating and implementing Indonesia's population
and family planning program and to extend its coverage throughout the
country. Commencing in 1977, the Bank's population, health and nutrition
(PHN) activities were extended to include support for health and nutrition
explicitly. A US$13 million loan for nutrition (1373-IND) and health
components totalling about US$39 million, included in larger agriculture
rural development and urban projects as well as the population and nutri-
tion projects, were approved during the late 1970s. In 1983, a first
health loan totalling US$27 million (2235-IND) was approved, the main
objective of which is to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the
public health service delivery system in three provinces of Sulawesi
through investments in the referral system (district hospitals and health
centers), three provincial in-service training centers, malaria control,
district-level administration and management training, and technical
assistance services. The first and second population projects were
completed in 1981 and early 1984, respectively, and the third was completed
on schedule in March 1985. A draft project performance audit report has
been prepared for the first population project, and has stressed the
importance of a clear understanding of the priorities, interests and plans
of other co-financing agencies.
2.29      The above broad-based portfolio of population, health and nutri-
tion financial and technical assistance activities reflect the priorities
and evolution of government policies, programs and institutions in these



- 15 -
areas during the last decade. In terms of policy, the government already
addresses the population, health and nutrition sectors as a comprehensive
whole and in terms of activities, programs and services, it plans to
emphasize an integrated approach during Repelita IV. The Bank's role,
assistance strategy and pipeline of proposed projects is thus designed to
support and reinforce this approach. This will imply inter alia continued
support for population and family planning, mainly through the NFPCB, and
significantly increased assistance for health and nutrition, mainly through
the MOH. As far as population and family planning are concerned, a fourth
loan is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors later this
fiscal year (para. 2.28). Regarding health and nutrition, the principal
mid-term focus of Bank assistance is to help the MOH implement three of its
five key priorities for Repelita IV, namely, the development of health
manpower, the strengthening of community-level primary health care
programs, and the improved effectiveness and efficiency of the public
health service delivery system. These health and nutrition activities will
also directly support and complement the government's overall population
and family planning goals.   Thus, in addition to the project described
later in this report, a second nutrition and community health project was
appraised in March 198i and a second provincial health project is expected
to be prepared for appraisal in FY86. A modest program of economic and
sector work and related policy studies (some included in these projects)
will provide support for these operations.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Main Features
3.01      Given the need for additional paramedical manpower of all kinds,
particularly of nurses, the project's overall context is firstly, the MOH's
long-term health manpower development plan, which sets quantitative targets
for increased output of nurses and technical paramedicals and for in-
service training of all MOH personnel over the next three five-year devel-
opment plans (1984-99) and secondly, the institutional development, includ-
ing policy, measures required at the MOH central, provincial and training
institution levels to strengthen both the pre-service paramedical manpower
training system and the in-service training system (paras. 2.16-2.26
above). Regarding the former, the project's main goal is to help the MOH
expand and improve its physical capacity for pre-service paramedical man-
power education and for in-service training; and, regarding the latter, the
project's key objective is to help strengthen the two MOR central institu-
tions concerned (and, through them, selected provincial units and training
institutions) and the development of MOH manpower development policies for
the longer term.
3.02      Against this background, the project's principal operational
objectives would be as follows:



- 16 -
(a)  to help expand the output and improve the quality of MDH para-
medical manpower through (i) strengthening the Center for Educa-
tion of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) by local and overseas
training and local and foreign technical assistance; (ii) provid-
ing new and/or improved physical facilities for 32 schools and
academies in 18 provinces; and (iii) carrying out three studies
required to further develop manpower development policies for
Repelita V and beyond; and
(b) to help expand the capacity for and improve the quality of MOH's
in-service education and training through (i) strengthening the
Center for Education Training of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT) by
local and overseas training and local and foreign technical
assistance; and (ii) providing new and/or Improved physical
facilities for eight In-service training centers.
B. Detailed Project Description
Pre-Service Paramedical Health Manpower Development
Institutional Strengthening
3.04      The overall mandate of PUSDIKNAKES, following its establishment
under Presidential Decree No. 15/1984, is to provide managerial, super-
visory and technical support and guidance to the MOH's pre-service para-
medical manpower training system, currently comprising 165 schools and
academies located throughout Indonesia. Its senior staffing being com-
pleted, PUSDIKNAKES is, at present, in the process of organizing itself for
this purpose and, in the near term, its principal priorities include the
recruitment of additional staff and their training, and the definition of a
work-plan of priority operational activities to be carried out during
Repelita IV. While the administration and coordination of the planned
additional output of manpower required during the next five years Is an
obvious and pressing priority, the development of PUSDIKNAKES itself and
its support role for the system as a whole is no less urgent or lmportant.
In this context, the project provides for 192 manmonthi (168 foreign and 24
local) of technical assistance services to help PUSDIKNAKES with its
organizational development, management and planning; curriculum develop-
ment; the development/improvement of systems for technical supervision and
support of educational programs, and their evaluation and monitoring; and
manpower data collection and processing. Furthermore, a total of 35
fellowships-6 long-term (108 manmonths) and 29 short-term (87 man-
months)--would be provided under the project to promote PUSDIKNAKES' staff
development. Courses of study to be undertaken would include management
and planning, evaluation, manpower planning and technical subject areas.
Finally, funds are also provided for group educational activities (i.e.,
workshops and seminars), which would promote systematic dialogue between
provincial and PUSDIKNAKES staff on issues relating to management and
educational quality in paramedical training lnstitutions.



- 17 -
3.05      Second, It is the MOH's longer-term strategy, given the country's
size and diversity, to transfer technical and institutional support (and,
ultimately full responsibility) for health manpower development to the
province level, Initially to those provinces where, for reasons of size
and/or the experience and capability of the MOH provincial authorities
concerned, such decentralization would result in improved effectiveness and
efficiency. Accordingly, as a first step, the MOH plans to creste educa-
tion and training divisions In the five Kanwils of East, West and Central
Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi during Repelita IV, thereby estab-
lishing a province-level focus of commitment and technical responsibility
for health manpower development, like that already in place in all Kanwils
for medical services, communicable diseases control, food and drug adminis-
tration and planning (para. 2.07). These divisions would be technically
responsible to PUSDIKNAKES and administratively accountable to the Kanwil.
Their functions, like those of PUSDIKNAKES at the national level, would
include coordination of all training activities and technical support and
guidance to the schools and academies within their jurisdiction through
field visits and group educational activlties, such as workshops, seminars,
and faculty exchanges of experience. They would also be a link between
PUSDIKNAKES ln Jakarta and individual schools and academies. To improve
the capacity of the selected Kanwils' offices to perform required manage-
ment functions and provide technical supervision and support to schools/
academies in their respective provinces, the project provides funding for
10 short-term fellowships (2 per province) as well as group educational
activities (workshops and seminars) in management and planning and techni-
cal subject areas. The five provincial education and training divisions
would also receive sustained technical supervision and assistance from
PUSDIKNAKES staff and the project-financed consultants based at
PUSDIKNAKES. In this connection assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the MOH would establish by March 31, 1986 and thereafter
maintain provincial education and training divlsions in East, West and
Central Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi.
3.06      Third, and related to this organizational development lnltiative,
the MOH plans to select 10 schools and/or academies, representing each of
the technical sub-disciplines or paramedical manpower categories, and
develop them as centers of excellence. The long-term goal would be to
strengthen the capability of these institutions' faculty and administrators
to the point where they could support the technical and institutional
development needs of other schools and academies of the same sub-discipline
in the same, or adjacent, province or region. The proposed strengthening
of selected institutions by PUSDIKNAKES, directly or, in the five provinces
concerned, through the planned provincial education and trainlng divisions,
would include: staff development activities; the redirection of teaching
methods towards more job-oriented, problem-based experiential learning; the
improvement of evaluation instruments and techniques for assessing student
and teacher performance; and, the creation of systematic opportunities for
faculty and planners to exchange experience, expertise anid ideas about
technical and institutional developments. To help develop the technical
knowledge/skills of the faculty of the 10 selected training institutions



- 18 -
the project would provide 36 long-term fellowships (648 manmonths) In
technical subject areas, and funds for group educational activities
(workshops and seminars). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the HOR would designate the 10 schools/academies to be strengthened
by December 31, 1985.
3.07      In summary, this component of the project Includes funds for a
total of 873 manmonths of fellowships and 156 manmonths of technical
services. For long-term fellowships, a small amount of funding is Included
In the project for in-country English language training. A tabulation of
proposed fellowships and technical services is contained at Annex 3, Table
3. Selection of fellows, their placement in appropriate courses of study
and their assignment upon return to Indonesla would be the responsibility
of the MOH, with assistance from WHO which has extensive experience in
managing and facillitating fellowship programs In the health field (see
para. 4.09 and 5.07 for specific arrangements).
Paramedical Schoois and Academies
3.08      As noted earlier in this report, the IDH plans to establish 48
new schools and academies and to rehabilitate (or provide new, permanent
facilities for), 42 existing schools and academies: a total of 90 iNstitu-
tions during Repelita IV. The 48 new schools and academies, part of the
additional training infrastructure required in the longer-term, were
selected on the basis of several criteria, including the following:
provinces and manpower categories of greatest need; overall health status
(infant mortality and life expectancy) by province; geographical distribu-
tion of training facilities required in the long-term; and site acquisition
or availability. The 42 existing schools and academies are those currently
operating in the most inadequate temporary or borrowed facilltles (some for
many years). An additional criterion for the 32 institutlons included in
this component of the project was the availability of external assistance,
already committed or planned, by other agencies, specifically ADB with whom
the government and the Bank is coordinating project preparation and imple-
mentation.
3.09      Taking into account these considerations, the project would pro-
vide funds for physical development (civil works, equipment, furniture,
vehicles (2 per institution) and books and teaching materials] for 21
schools (6 new and 15 existing) and 11 academies (7 new and 4 exlsting), of
which 4 academies would be single stream and 7 would be maulti-stream (i.e.
grouped in 2 or 3 technical subject streams on the same site and sharing
common dormitory, dining, library and auditorium space). The total of 32
project institutions would be located in 18 provinces: 14 in the 5 pro-
vinces of Java; 12 in 8 provinces of Sumatra and Sulawesi; I in the pro-
vince of Bali; and the remaining 5 in 4 eastern provinces. All 7 multi-
stream academies would be located in urban areas in Java, West Sumatra, and
South Sulawesi where, for reasons of cost, size, and technical need, the
feasibility of -multi-streaming- appears most promising. Finally, of the
total 32 project institutions, 10 would be nursing schools or academies



- 19 -
(excluding 4 nursing streams in 4 of the multi-stream academie3) and the
rest schools or academies for assistant pharmacists, medical analysts,
laboratory assistants, sanitarians/health inspectors, and dental
assistants. A list of project institutions is contained at Annex 3,
Table 2.
3.13      In connection with the support provided for multi-stream acade-
mies which, as indicated in the preceding chapter of this report, is a new
development for Indonesia's health sector, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the MOR would: (a) take steps to develop common core
curricula for the different paramedical categories in the planned multi-
stream academies; (b) introduce multi-stream classes and programs on a
pilot basis in the 7 multi-stream academies included in the project; and
(c) based on this experience, establish a policy for future multi-stream
paramedical manpower education and training not later than April 1, 1988.
In addition, and partly related to the multi-stream approach, as well as
the lack, to date, of consistent MOH design standards for schools and
academies, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the NOH would
develop systematic, cost-effective space allocation and design standards
not later than June 30, 1986. In establishing these standards, the MOR
would take into account the space allocation agreed for the first batch of
project institutions during appraisal.
Studies
3.11      In addition to the two project-related actions noted in para.
3.10 above, there are three other sub-sectoral questions or issues which,
as discussed in pars. 2.27 above, the MOR needs to address during Repelita
IV. These are: the financial feasibility (capital and recurrent costs) of
the long-term health manpower development plan's targets for the year 2000;
the future role and career development prospects of pekarya kesehatan; and,
the impact on both efficiency and training quality of parallel classes.
During appraisal, the MOB requested that technical assistance be included
in the project to help it undertake the necessary studies, all three of
which may have significant implications for preparation of Repelita V.
Accordingly, the proposed loan would include a small allocation
(US$150,000) for short-term local andior foreign cc-asultancies that may be
needed for any or all of these three studies. Accordingly, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that: (a) the MOH, in consultation with
BAPPENAS, would assess the financial resources required and available to
achieve the long-term health manpower development plan's targets through
the year 2000, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, not later
than June 30, 1986; (b) the MOR would review the functions, status and
longer-term role of pekarya kesehatan, not later than December 31, 1986 and
define a plan for their longer-term utilization, career development, and
training, not later than April 1, 1988; and (c) the MOR would evaluate the
impact of parallel classes on both the efficiency and training quality of
the schools and academies concerned, not later than December 31, 1986 and
define a plan or policy for their continuation or otherwise not later than
April 1, 1988 taking into account the results of this evaluation. Terms of



- 20 -
reference for these studies have been prepared and were discussed and
agreed at loan negotiations.
In-Service Health Personnel Development
Institutional Strengthening
3.12      The basic functional responsibility of PUSDIKLAT, under Presi-
dential Decree No. 15/1984, is similar to that of PUSDIKNAKES, but with
reference to in-service training and, in principle, for the entire public
health system, not only paramedicals (although they are quantitatively the
largest professional group). Like its sister center, PUSDIKLAT is current-
ly in the process of organizing itself to face the very substantial in-
service training burden that the additional numbers of MOH staff entering
the system during the next five years (mainly paramedicals) will impose.
However, while the potential clientele for in-service training is much
larger than that of pre-service paramedical training, the physical and
human resources available are significantly smaller: in 1983/84, only 10
permanent training facilities--L .-ational in-service training centers and 6
provincial centers of which 3 are currently under construction in Sulawesi
under the Bank-financed provincial health project (Loan 2235-IND). Except
for the latter 3, these centers are all in poor physical condition (having
been built in some cases over 30 years ago), too small for current require-
ments, and lacking basic teaching aids, equipment and bocks. Consequently,
training strategies and methods have hitherto been overly classroom-
oilented, with minimal scope for discussion, simulatiGn exercises, and
field and work experience practice. Consistent with the decentralization
strategy referred to above (para. 3.05), the MOH's long-term plan is to
have 37 in-service training centers (1 in each province plus 4 national and
6 regional centers) and, during Repelita IV, to establish 21 (4 national, 3
regional, and 14 provincial), although not all with permanent facilities.
3.13      In addition to its responsibility co coordinate, and in some
instances directly conduct, short in-service training courses of all kinds
for the entire public health system, PUSDIKLAT also trains the trainers for
its own centers and for pre-employment and other in-service training
courses conducted by the four MOH Directorates-General. Moreover, with
effect from Repelita IV, PUSDIKLAT will be responsible for conducting
obligatory public administration and management training for MOH echelon
III and IV personnel, hitherto carried out directly by the National Insti-
tute of Public Administsration (LAN). In the circumstances, one of
PUSDIKLAT's main operational priorities during Repelita IV is to strengthen
greatly the number and quality of trainers, at national, regional and
provincial level. As far as its in-service training strategy is concerned,
it will place emphasis on enabling course participants (both medical and
paramedical) to transfer their knowledge, skills, and experience to hospi-
tal and health center clients as well as to individuals and groups in
villages and urban communities, so that the population at large gradually
learns how to prevent illness through modern and improved health behavior
and practices. At present, PUSDIKLAT's physical and human resources to



- 21 -
provide training for trainers and management training for senior MOH staff
and other special courses are extremely limited and sustained, long-term
investments in both are urgently needed.
3.14      As a first step, PUSDIKLAT's proposals for its own institutional
development and that of its existing and proposed in-service training
centers are two-fold: (a) for PUSDIKLAT staff, 10 long-term fellowships (8
masters level in management and planning and 2 doctoral level in research
and development and evaluation respectively) and 11 short-term (4 in admin-
istration/management and 7 in educational technology or related subject
areas), supported by 48 manmonths of technical services in organizational
development; and (b) for PUSDIKLAT in-service training centers: (i) expe-
riential, field-based training in community health program development for
84 selecced national, regional and provincial trainers, and in community
health program management for 16 of these trainers; (ii) 20 masters-level
fellowships in public health education; and (iii) 18 manmonths of technical
assistance services to assist in (b)(i) and (ii) above. In summary, this
componeat of the project would support the provision of 41 fellowships (636
manmonths); 3 technical assistance consultancies (66 manmonths); and funds
for in-country seminars and workshops.
In-Service Training Centers
3.15      As noted earlier, 7 of PUSDIKLAT's existing training centers are
inadequate not only for present purposes but also for the much larger
training load that is in prospect during Repelita IV and beyond. Accord-
ingly, as part of its infrastructure development plans during Repelita IV,
the 4 existing national centers in Jakarta, Ciloto, Lemah Abang and Salaman
would be rehabilitated and expanded to accommodate up to 150 trainees and
10 full-time faculty; 1 of the 2 existing regional centers, at Murnajati,
would be rehabilitated and expanded to accommodate up to 120 trainees and 8
full-time faculty, and a third new regional center would be constructed at
Palembang (South Sumatra) with the same capacity; and 2 additional new
provincial centers would be constructed at Denpasar (Bali) and Banda Aceh
(Aceh) to accommodate up to 80 trainees and 6 full-time faculty. This
expansion of existing capacity and additional facilities, together with 4
provincial centers included in a proposed ADB-financed health and
population project in South and West Kalimantan, Lampung and East Nusa
Tenggara, would more than double the training capacity now available to
PUSDIKLAT and, pending completion of the full nationwide system required in
the long-term, provide it in provinces/regions of highest priority. Thus,
the project would provide funds for physical development (civil works,
equipment, furniture, vehicles and books and teaching materials) of the 8
institutions noted above (4 national, 2 regional, and 2 provincial). A
list of project institutions is contained at Annex 3, Table 2.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.01      The estimated total cost of the project is Rp 72.4 billion or
US$65.9 million equivalent, net of duties and taxes. The foreign exchange
component is an estimated US$22.9 million, or 35% of the total. Detailed
costs are presented in Annex 2 and are summarized in Tables IV.1 and IV.2
below.
4.02      The project's base costs refer to April 1985 prices.  Construc-
tion costs are the product of space standards agreed to during appraisal
and unit prices provided by the government for the various types of build-
ings required, averaging US$173 equivalent per m2 and ranging from US$105
per m2 for residential accommodation to US$259 per m2 for school facilities
in the other island province of Irian Jaya. Equipment and furniture costs
are based on standard lists provided by the government authorities con-
cerned. Equipment and teaching materials imported under the project would
be exempt from duties and taxes and such duties or taxes on building mate-
rials have not been identified separately in project costs because they are
negligible. Technical assistance costs for consultants include salaries
and, where appropriate for foreign consultants, allowances and airfares.
Unit costs for fellowshiDs average US$1,680 per manmonth inclusive of
international travel. The project's foreign exchange component of US$22.9
million has been calculated on the basis of the following estimates: civil
works - 20%; standard equipment - 60X; special equipment - 100%; furniture
- 10%; vehicles - 85%; foreign consultants and overseas fellowships - 100%;
local consultants and in-country training - OZ; and studies - 80%.
Physical contingencies represent 132 of civil works and 9% of total base
costs. Price contingencies, which equal about 15% of total base cost, were
calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and assume the follow-
ing expected annual rates of increase:
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Z       X        %       X       X
Local       8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0
Foreign     5.0      7.5     8.0      8.0     8.0



- 23 -
Table IV.1:   Sum_arj Project tost By Component
(RUPIAH Million)               (USS '000)
~    ~~~~~ ~-  ----- - ---------------- -----  I Foreign
Local   Foreiu.   Tcatl    Local   foreigr   Total    Exchanke
A. PRE-SERVICE HEALTH HNAPOIER DEVELOPMENT
:. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PIISDIKNAKES. JAKARTA                                661.0  2i226,1  2i987.2      600.9  2t'23.8  29624.           77
PROVINCIAL UNITS                                     135.2     67.7    202.9      122.9     61.5    184.4          33
SELECTED CENTERS                                     299.5    986.9  1i286.3      272.3    897.1  1.169.4          7,
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                 1.095.7  3t280.6  4,376,4      796.1  2PM82,4  3,978.5          75
2. PARA-HEDICAL TRAINING SCHOOLS
NURSING ACADEMIES (AXPER)                          1,943.9    572.7  2.516.5   19767.1    520.6  2289.7 .23
NURSING SCHOOLS (SPK)                              5,49.8  1.903.1  7,352.8   49'54.3  19730.0  6t684.4            26
ASST. PHWRMACIST SCHOOL (SIf)                      1,256.4    664.0  1.920.4   1.142.2   603.6  19745.8            35
MEDICAL ANALYST ACADEMY (AN)                         824.8    448.7  19273.5      749.8    407,9  1,157.7          35
LAD ASSISTANT SCHDOLS (SOX)                        1,902.3  1,233.3  3.135.6   17294.  1l21.2  2r950.6             39
SANITARIAN SCHOOLS (SPIH)                          1,223.7    558.6  1,792.2   1,112.4    507.8  1U620.2           31
PHYSIOTHERAPIST ACADEMIES (AKPIS)                    786.9   485.3  1,272.1       715.3    441.2  1,156.5          38
DENTAL ASSISTANT SCHOOLS (IRS)                     4399.4  2v096.7  6.495.1   39M.6  1,897.0  5P95.6              32
MULTI-STREK ACADEMIES                               9,539.2  4.588.5 149127.8   8.672.0  4.171.4 129443.4          32
Sub-Total PAR-MEDICAL TRAINING SCHOOLS               27M325.3 12,540.8 39,866.1  246841.2 11,400.7 36,241.9           31
3. POLICY STUDIES                                           -    169.1    169.1          -    153.8    153.8         100
Sub-Total PRE-SERVICE HEALTH NANPOkIER DEVELOPMENT      28,421.1 159990.5 44U411.6  25.937.3 14.536.8 40P374.2           36
D. IN-SERVICE HEALTH PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT
,. INSTITUTIONL STRENGTHENING
PUSDIKLAT. JAKARTA                                     6.5  14015.5  1,022.0        5.9    923.2    7.29.1          f
TRAINING CAPACITY                                    387.9    913.8  1,301.8      352.7    930.8  1183.4          70
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                   394.4  14929.4  2323.8       358.6  1,754.0  2,112.5          83
2. IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS
NATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS                          4,993.4  1,597.4  6.490.!   4,448.6  1,452.2  5t900.8           25
REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS                          29228.9    608.6  2.937.6   2.026.3    553.3  2.579.6           21
PROVINCIAL TRAINING CENTERS                        2,013.9    503.5  2.517.4   1.830.8    457.8  2,2B8.5           20
Sub-Total IN-SERVICE TRAINING CENTERS                 9,136.2  2,709.6 11,945.8   8.305.6  2,463.310.768.9            23
Sub-Total IN-SERVICE HEALTH PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT        9,530.6  46639.e 14,169.6   8,664.2  4,217.3 :22881.5           33
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      37,951.7 20,629.5 58,581.2  34,501.5 14B754.1 53.255.6           35
Physical Contingencies                                  3,646.2  1,542.0  5,188.1   3,314.7  :.401.8  4,716.5           30
Price Contingencies                                     5,735.4  2,933.2 89668.5   5,214.0  2P666.5  79890.5            34
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       47,333.2 25.104.6 72,437.8  43U030.2 22,822.4 65?852.6           35
=-  ---------- ===          _ -==   = _ ===== == ========  =====:====



- 24 -
Table IV.2: Summary Project Cost by Expenditure Category
CRUPIAH Million)              CUSS '0003
------Z------------ -- -------------------------  2 Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Jotal   Exchange
I. INVESTMKENT COSTS
A. L4ND COST                                         29032.2        -  29032.2  19847.4         -  19847.4          -
B. CIUIL WORKS                                      30,993.7 8400.3 399394.0  289176.1  7t636.7 354812.7          21
C. FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
FURNITURE                                         2,731.2   329.0  39060.3  2i483.0   299.1  2.762.0            11
REGULAR EQUIPMENT                                   520.0   B45.6  1w365.6    472.7   769.8  l,241.5            62
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                                       - 4,969.7  4,869.7          - 49427.0  49427.0         100
VEHICLES                                            153.0   940.2  1,093.2    139.1   954.7   993.8             86
IATERIALS/DOOlS                                     533.8             533.8     485.3        -    485.3          -
Sub-Total FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT AND HATERIAL!i        3,938.1  6,984.5 10,922.5  3t580.i  6,349.5  9,929.6          64
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS
1. CONSULTANTS
LOAL CONSULTANTS                                 30.0        -      30.0      27.2       -      27.2          -
FOREIGN CONSULTAUTS                                 -  2,203.0   2030           - 2i002.7 2'002.7          'CO
Sub-Total CONSIJLTANTS                               30.0  29203.0  29233.0      27.2  2i002.7  2,030.0         99
2. FELLOSHIPS
LONG-TERN FELLOVSHIPS                                -  2,344.0  2i344.0         - 2.131.0  29131.0         100
SHORT TERM FELLOWSHIPS                               -   529.5   528.5          -    490.5   490.5         100
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS                                  -2872.6  2l872.6            - 2i611.4  2,611.4          100
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS          30.0  5,075.6  5P10.5p      27.2  4w614.2  4i641.4         99
E. STUDIES                                                 -    169.1   169.1               153.8   153.8         100
F. GROUP EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES (TRAINING)             957.8       -    957.B      870.8       -    870.8           -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    37,951.7 20,629.5 586581.2  34,5O1.5 189754.1 53,255.6         35
Plwsical Contingencies                                3,646.2  1.542.0  5P188.1   3,314.7  1,401.8  49716.5         30
Price Contingencies                                   59735.4  2,933.2 B9668.5  5P214.0  2go66.5  76980.5           34
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     479333.2 25,104.6 729437.8  43,030.2 22,922.4 658512.6         35



- 25 -
Recurrent Costs
4.03      The annual recurrent costs generated directly by the project
would amount to about Rp. 1.5 billion, representing about 1.5% of planned
MOH expenditure on manpower development in 1988/89 and less than 1% of
total planned MOH expenditure in the same year.  These additional costs are
mainly for salaries, per diems/stipends, administrative overhead, and
building, equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance at new schools
and academies and in-service training centers to be established under the
project. The recurrent costs generated by remaining project training
institutions would be negligible since these institutions are already
operating, albeit in inadequate facilities.
B. Financing Plan
4.04      The proposed Bank loan of US$39 million would finance 60X of
total project costs, less the cost of vehicles that would be purchased by
the government under reserved procurement (US$65.9 million minus US$1.2
million). The loan would cover US$21.9 million of the foreign exchange
cost [the total except for the foreign ex:hange component of vehicles
(US$1.0 million)], and US$17.1 million or 40% of local costs. Bank
financing of 60% of total project costs is consistent with project cost
sharing guidelines for the social sectors in Indonesia. The balance of
US$26.9 million equivalent would be made available by the government
through its annual development budget. The proposed financing plan is
indicated in Table IV.3 below.
Table IV.3: Financing Plan
US$ million equiv.
Project Element               GOI         IBRD     Total
A. Land                                2.2        -         2.2
B. Civil Works                        17.6       26.8      44.4
C.  Furniture, equipment,
vehicles and materials           7.1         5.5     12.6
D.  Technical Assistance and
Fellowships                      -           5.5      5.5
E.  Studies                            -          0.2       0.2
F. Group Educational Activities
(Training)                        _          1.0      1.0
Totals                           26.9        39.0      65.9



- 26 -
C. Procurement
4.05      Project procurement arrangements are suwurized in Table IV.4.
Table IV.4: Procurement (in US$ uillion) a/
Procurement Method
Project Element            ICB      LCB    Other D/ N.A.         Total Cost
A.  Land                        -         -       2.2       -         2.2
B.  Civil Works                 -        44.4     -         -        44-4
C-)     (26.8)   (-)       (-)       (26.8)
C. Furniture, Equipment,
Vehicles and Materials    5.5        5.4     1.7      -         12.6
(5.5)    (-)      (-)      (-)        (5.5)
D. Technical Assistance
and Fellowships            -        -        5.5      -          5.5
(-)      (-)      (5.5)    (-)        (5.5)
E.  Studies                     -         -       0.2       -         0.2
C-)      (-)      (0.2)    (-)        (0.2)
F. Group Educattional
Activities                 -        -        1.0      -          1.0
C~ -)   t(1.0)    (-)      (1.0)
Totals                      5.5      49.8    10.6      -         65.9
(5.5)   (26.8)   (6.7)    (-)        (39.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank loan.
a/ Costs include physical and price contingencies.
b/ Other means of procurement include reserved procurement of vehicles,
prudent shopping for basic equipment and teaching materials, procure-
ment of consultancies and fellowships, and training overheats.
4.06      Contracts for the construction of the 32 schools and academies
and 8 in-service training centers totalling US$44.4 million would be too
small (averaging US$1.1 million equivalent each) and geographically
dispersed (in 18 different provinces) to attract foreign bidders and would



- 27 -
therefore be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) proce-
dures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Deslgns and tender documents
would be prepared by local private consultants on the basis of agreed
standards and schedules of accommodation. Site supervision would be
carried out by local consultants and field staff of the Ministry of Public
Works in accordance wlth local govexzment practice.  Contracts are expected
to be procured in three phases over 3*-4 years, wlth over half scheduled
during the first phase (1985/86). In this connection, of the total 40
sltes needed, 25 have already been acquired or are available. During
negotlations, assurances were obtained that sites for 8 facilities to be
constructed commencing 1986/87 would be acquired or made available not
later than April 1, 1986, and sites for the remaining 7 facilitles, to be
constructed commencing 1987/88, would be acquired not later than April 1,
1987.
4.07      About US$5.4 million equivalent or about one-half of total
equipment and furniture required for the project consists of basic furni-
ture, office equipment, and teaching supplies that are manufactured locally
at competitive prices in Indonesia. These items would be procured follow-
ing local competitive bidding procedures under which both local and foreign
suppliers represented in Indonesia would be eliglble to bid. Specialized
equipment and teachirg materials, valued at about US$5.5 million equiva-
lent, would be grouped to the extent practicable and bid packages estimated
to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Local suppliers would be ellgible to bid and, in the evcluation of bids,
would be eligible for a margin of preference equal to 15X of the cif costs
of competing imports, or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower.
Equipment items which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$100,000 or
more and miscellaneous items in packages not exceeding US$50,000 equiva-
lent, and subject to an aggregate total of US$0.5 million equivalent, may
be procured through prudent shopping. The US$0.5 million limit was estab-
lished on the basis of experience with previous Bank loans in Indonesia.
Since government policy requires the purchase of locally assembled
vehicles, project vehicles valued at about US$1.2 million would be regarded
as reserved procurement.
4.08      Prior Bank review would be required for all contracts to be
awarded under international competitive bidding, all civil works contracts
of US$500,000 equivalent or more, and all remaining contracts of US$100,000
equivalent or more. Sample post-award reviews of contracts less than
US$100,000 equivalent would be carried out during project supervision
missions.
4.09      Selection of technical assistance consultants would be carried
out in accordance with Bank guidelines. For overseas training, the MOH Is
expected to request the World Health Organization (WHO) office in Jakarta
to assist as executing agency for selection and placement of candidates for
all overseas fellowships. The completion of arrangements for the admiais-
tration and management of overseas fellowships through WHO, or other
appropriate intermediary, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.



- 28 -
D. Disbursements
4.10      The proposed loan of US$39 million equivalent would be disbursed
as follows: (a) 60% of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 100% of the
cif costs of directly imported equipment and training materials or 90% of
the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured equipment or 651 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; and (c) 100% of total costs
of consultants' services, overseas fellowships, studies and group educa-
tional activities. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in an amount of US$100,000 equivalent or more prior to
submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of loan proceeds. Disburse-
ments for civil works would be against individual contracts for each
physical facility. For group educational activities, disbursements would
be agalnst statements of expeuaitures based on agreed unit costs and veri-
fled by the project executing agencies. Supporting documentation would be
retained by these agencies and made available for review as requested by
Bank supervision missions. Disbursements would be completed by September
30, 1989, about 6 months after the estimated date of project completion.
The schedule of estimated disbursements is provided below in Table IV.5.
Table IV.5: Schedule of Disbursements
Percentage Disbursed
IBRD Fiscal Year      Semester     Cumulative      Estimate For      All PHN
and Semester               US$ Millions            This Project      Projects
1986
1st                 1.5           1.5               4.0             1.0
2nd                 5.5           7.0               18.0            4.0
1987
lst                8.2           15.2              39.0             7.0
2nd                 5.1           20.3             52.0            12.0
1988
1st                 7.0          27.3              70.0            17.0
2nd                 3.5          30.8              79.0            29.0
1989
Ist                 5.1          35.9              92.0            31.0
2nd                 0.8          36.7              94.0            39.0
1990
1st                 2.3          39.0             100.0            48.0



- 29 -
4.11      As Table IV.5 shows, about half the loan is expected to be
disbursed by mid-1987, after two full years of project implementation,
which is faster than the average for all PHN projects at that stage. This
estimate and the expectation of full disbursement 4j years after loan
effectiveness reflects the advanced status of preparation of the civil
works component. Site surveys, standardized designs and draft tender
documents are already under preparation for 25 of the 40 facilities to be
constructed under the project (para. 5.06) and contracts for most of these
facilities are planned to be awarded shortly after loan effectiveness. In
addition, the existing PHN disbursement profile used here for comparison
purposes is heavily weighted by slow implementation and disbursements in
early PHN projects in several regions and countries. In light of
Indonesia's relatively long experience with Bank PHN projects (para. 2.28)
and consequent familiarity with Bank procedures, there is good reason to
expect that disbursements will proceed on the schedule estimated above.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.12      The two project executing agencies (PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIKLAT)
would establish and maintain separate accounts for all project expendi-
tures, in accordance with sound accounting practices. Project accounts
including statements of expenses, would be audited annually by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and annual audit reports would be submitted to the
Bark within nine months of the end of the government's fiscal year. Six
months after the closing date, the project director would submit a project
completion report (PCR) to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the government would comply with these accounting, auditing
and reporting requirements.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION,_ MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
5.01      Corresponding to the two operational objectives of the project,
the main responsibility for project management and implementation would
rest vith the two MOH centers concerned:  PUSDIXNAKES and PUSKIDLAT.  Both
centers are directly responsible to the Minister of Health, through the
Secretary General, under Decree No. 15/1984 dated March 6, 1984 (Chart 1);
and the Chiefs of the two centers would be responsible for coordinating the
parts of the project within their jurisdiction, including the procurement
of civil works, equipment, adminLstration of technical assistance and
training, project finances (including counterpart funding and loan dis-
bursements) and overalL project progress reports.
5.02      The project would be directed by the Secretary General, assisted
by the two Center Chiefs, as Project Officers. To ensure appropriate
intra- and inter-ministerial coordination, the Project Director, the two



- 30 -
Project Officers, the MOH Adviser, Health Technology & Manpower, the Chief,
MOH Bureau of Planning, the MOH Inspector General, the Chief, Health &
Nutrition Bureau, BAPPENAS, and representatives of the Ministries of
Finance and Public Works would together constitute a Project Advisory
Board, which would meet at least quarterly to review overall project
progress, approve plans and budgets for all project components, and resolve
any issues affecting project goals and implementation.
5.03      At the central level, the two Project Officers would be assisted
by two teams of full and part-time staff of their own Centers, supplemented
by full-time technical staff on deputation, including a finance officer, an
equipment specialist, a construction adviser, and an architect or engineer
(on deputation from MOH's INSTALMED). These teams would be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of standardized designs by local architectural
consultants and the procurement of furniture and equipment. They would
also consolidate project progress reports and monitor and supervise
province-level activities, the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets, the procurement of goods, and the processing of loan withdrawal
applications. At the province level, the provincial health officer or
Kanwil would formally be Project Officer and thus be responsible for all
project activities in the province concerned. Each provincial Project
Officer would appoint a full-time project implementation officer who would
be provided with suppport staff for local procurement, preparation of work
programs and budgets, and project monitoring and supervision. During
negotiations, the government conflrmed that these central- and provincial-
level project implementation officers have been appointed. Slnce the
number of project facilities to be developed in any one province does not
exceed 4 (and in 13 provinces is only 1 or 2), these project coordination
and management arrangements are considered satisfactory. Moreover, they
are consistent with existing MOH policies and procedures for development
projects of this kind.
5.04      Although it is the government's practice in Bank-financed pro-
Jects to have project funds administered and controlled by the central
ministry concerned in Jakarta, this arrangement would not be suitable in a
project of this kind, involving a large number of provincial authorities.
Accordingly, it has been agreed that individual project counterpart budgets
would be allocated and released directly to each of the province Project
Officers concerned.
B. Prolect ImPlementation
5.05      Civil Works.  Project civil works consists of 7 multi-stream
paramedical academies, 25 paramedical schools and academies, and 4 nation-
al, 2 regional, and 2 provincial in-service training centers. The loca-
tions of these facilities are shown in the attached map No. IBRD 18796.
Standard designs would be prepared by local architectural consultants at
the central level, according to space and design standards which have been
agreed by the Bank. Consultants in each province would adapt these



-31-
standard designs to individual sites and local planning conditions. The
provincial Project Officers would be responsible for initiating
constructlon In accordance with normal government procedures and for
appointing consultants to supervise construction and advise on technical
matters. Additional technical advice and limited supervision would be
provided by the local Public Works Departments, whose representative would
be a member of the tender ntd Implementation committees requlred under
government regulations. Contracts for construction would be awarded
through provincial tender committees convened by the provinclal Project
Officer, in accordance with standard government procedures.
5.06      As noted in paras. 4.06 and 4.11 above, sltes have already been
acquired or are available for the 25 project institutions to be constructed
or rehabilitated during the first year (1985/86) of implementation; and,
site surveys, standardized designs and draft tender documents are currently
being prepared under pre-financing avallable from the Technical Assistance
Credit (898-IND). Completlon of these slte surveys, designs and draft
tender documents would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
5.07      EQuipment, Furniture, Vehicles and Other Services   Procurement
of equipment and vehicles would be managed centrally by the central project
implementatlon teams concerned and of furniture locally by the province-
level project implementation officers concerned. As noted In para. 4.09
above, overseas fellowshlps are expected to be administered by the DHO
centrally, with the assistance of WHO as executing agency. The WHO has
conflrmed Its ability and willingness to act In this capacity.
5.08      The project would be implemented over a four-year period
(Annex 3, Table 2), plus six months for the completion of payments and full
withdrawal of loan proceeds. The project 1i thus expected to be completed
by March 31, 1989, with a Closing Date of September 30, 1989.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The principal direct benefits of the project would be broadly
threefold. First, the quality of education and training conducted in 32
(19 existLng and 13 new) paramedlcal academies and schools, about 152 of
the MR's paramedical manpower training infrastructure in 1988/89, would be
significantly enhanced through the orovision of new and/or improved
physical facllities, Including appropriate equipment, teaching materials
and vehicles for field practice. Second, the provision of new and/or
improved physical facilities for 8 N0R in-service training centers would
expand the capaclty and improve the quality of its in-service education and
training system, which Is still at an early stage of development. Third,
the managerial, supervisory and technical support capability of the MDO' 
two new national centers responsible for pre-service and in-service train-
ing (PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIILAT respectively) would be strengthened tbrough



- 32 -
a combinatlon of overseas training and local and foreign technical assis-
tance. In addition to these direct quantitative, qualitative and
institution-building benefits, the three studies to be undertaken under the
project would provide the HOH, and indirectly BAPPENAS, a sound basis for
the formulation of paramedlcal manpower development plans and policies for
Repelita V (1989-94) and beyond.
B. Project Risks
6.02      The project would be the third Bank-financed operation to be
implemented by the KOH but only the first to be undertaken by the two new
executing agencies concerned. There is therefore a gr! , facie risk of
delay ln implementation.  However, as far as the physical infrastructure
elements are concerned, sites have been acquired or are already available
for over half the project institutions, and standardized designs and draft
tender documents are currently being prepared for the 25 project institu-
tions to be developed during the first year (1985/86). Second, the tech-
nical assistance inputs for instltutional strengthening of PUSDIKNAKES and
PUSDIKLAT, and indirectly project management, would help overcome potential
problems arlsing from these agencies' relative inexperience in executing
externally-aided projects of thls magnitude. Third, an initial project
implementation or 'launch- workshop is planned for mid-1985, and during the
first year or so of implementation, an above-average Bank project super-
vision effort is anticipated. In the circumstances, the degree of risk is
acceptable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      At loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Borrower would establish by March 31, 1986 and maintain
thereafter province-level education and training dlvlsions within
its MOH provinclal offices (kanwils) in East, West and Central
Java and North Sumatra and South Sulawesi (para. 3.05);
(b)  the Borrower would designate 10 paramedical schools/aca !mies as
selected centers not later than December 31, 1985 (para. 3.06);
(c)  the Borrower would: (1) develop multistream curricula for select-
ed paramedical manpower categories; (ii) introduce multistreas
classes and programs, initially on a pilot basls, in the seven
project multi-stream academies; and (1ii) based on this experi-
ence, establish a policy for multistream paramedical manpower
educatlon and training not later than April L, 1988 (para.
3.10);



- 33 -
Cd)  the Borrower would establish systematic, cost-effective space
allocation and design standards for MOH paramedical academies,
schools and in-service training centers, not later than June 30,
1986 (para. 3.10);
(e)  the Borrower would assess the financial resources required and
available to achieve the long-term health manpower development
plan's targets through the year 2000 under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1986 (pars.
3.11);
(f)  the Borrower would: (i) review the functions, status, and
longer-term role of auxiliary health workers (pekarya kesehatan),
not later than December 31, 1986; and (ii) define a plan for
their longer-term utilization, career development and training
before April 1, 1988 (para. 3.11);
(g) the Borrower would: Ci) evaluate the impact of parallel classes
not later than December 31, 1986; and (ii) define a plan or
policy for their continuation or otherwise before April 1, 1988
taking into account the results of this evaluation (para. 3.11);
and
(h)  the Borrower would acquire the sites for the 15 project institu-
tions to be constructed during the second and third years of
project implementation (1986/87 and 1987/88) not later than
April 1, 1986 and April 1, 1987 respectively (para. 4.06).
7.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  the completion of satisfactory arrangements for the aduinistra-
tion and management of overseas fellowships through WHO, or-other
appropriate intermediary (para. 4.09); and
(b)  the completion of site surveys, standardized designs and draft
tender documents for the project institutions to be constructed
and/or rehabilitated during the first year (1985/86) of project
implementation (para. 5.06).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project here-
in proposed would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of USS39
million equivalent to the Government of Indonesia at the standard variable
rate, for a term of 20 years including a five-year grace period.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Existing and Planned MOH Manpower, by Category
1983/84        1988/89
A. Graduate Level
Specialist physicians                          2,733          3,424
General physicians                             7,529         13,614
Dentists                                       1,292           1,773
Other graduate level                           1,219          5,283
Sub-total                                12X713         24.094
B. Paramedicals
Nurses                                        44,651         76,238
Sanitarians                                    6,813         15.333
Dental assistants                                446          4,043
Lab. technicians                               1,209          4,572
Assistant nutritionists                        1,081          6,098
Assistant pharmacists                          1,886          5,539
Assistant physiotherapists                       221             916
Assistant anaesthetists                          124             851
Electro-medical technicians                      -42            260
Assistant radiographers                          189            843
Sub-total                                56.662        114,693
C. Auxiliary health workers/
pekarya kesehatan                           29,473         50,467
D. Non-medical/administrative level               63,221          94,643
Total                                   162,129        283,897



Existing and Planned MOH Hanpower, by Program Area
Program Area                             Graduate Level          Paramedicals          Non-medical               TOTAL
1983/84  1988/89      1983/84  1988/89      1983/84  1988/89       1983/84  1988/89
Community Health Centers                  3,858    9,256        40,4441/ 78,81 3      10,503   19,360        54,805  107,429
Hospitals & Laboratories                  6,732    7,021        34,401-/ 64,79 W      33,240   35,368        74,373  107,184
Environmental Health                          64      348        4,387    3,779          657    2,123         5,108    6,250
Comm. Disease Prevention & Control           782    1,230        3,228    5,982        2,512    9,667         6,522   16,879
Education and Training                       197    1,769        1,411    3,759        3,679    3,976         5,287    9,504
Drug & Food Policy & Management             480       802          898    1,824        1,982    2,215         3,360    4,841
Nutrition Improvement                         81      142          654    1,543        1,672    3,102         2,407    4,787         W
Other Program >                              579    3,526          712    4,665        8,976   18,832        10,267   27,023
TOTAL                                  11azz7   g2i2g         6aI2  15k1        63I21 . 21JU          162A     WiI
NoteE': 1/  Community Health Centers: includes 11,130 nurses and 29,313 nurse auxiliaries in 1983/84; and
39,548 nurses, 14,704 technical paramedicals, and 24,557 nurse auxiliaries in 1988/89.
2/  Hospitals & Laboratories: includes 31,680 nurses and 2,721 technical paramedicals in 1983/84; and
32,741 nurses, 6,672 technical paramedicals and 25,382 nurse auxiliaries in 1988/89.
3/ rncludes: Management & Organization, Health Education, Research & Development; and, Occupational
Health, Personnel Administration, and Health Data/information.                                                       fl!
w m



Distribution of Paramedical Training Institutions (Public and Private), by Province
Asst.        Lab.                  Dental      Asst.    Teacher
Nursing   Pharn.    Technic.   Sanit.          Asat.      Nutr.    Training    Other       Nursing       Other
Schools   Schools   Schools    Schools    Schools   Schools   Schools    Schools   Academies   Academies   Total
DKI Jakarta                        19          7          3           -          2         1           1           1           5           6          46
West Java                          25          4          1           2          1         2           1           -           2           -          38
Central Java                       18          4          4           1          -         -           -           -           3            2         32
Di Jogjakarta                       4          1          1           -          I                                             I _  I  I    1          10
East Java                          22          4          2           2          1         -           1          -            1            3         36
Sall                                3          1          -           I          I         -           -           -          -            -            6
North Sulawesi                      5          -                                           -           -           -           1            -           8
South Sulawesi                      7          2          1           1          1         1           1           -           I            1          16
North Sumatra                      16          4                      -          I         -           -           -           I            -          21
West Sumatra                        5          2          2           1          -         I           -           -           1            2          14          1
South Sumamatra                     6          2          -           -          I         1           -          -            1            _        .W
DI Aceh                             5          1          1           1          -        -            -          -           -             -
Lampung                             2          -          -           I          -        -           -           -           -             -           3
West Nusa Tenggara                  2          -          -           -          -         -           -           -          -             -           2
East Nusa Tenggara                  3          -          -           -          -         -           -           -          _                         3
West Kalioantan                     2          -          -           -          -        -            -          -           -             -           2
Central Kalimantan                  I          -          I           -          -         -           -           -          -             -           2
South Kalimantan                    3          1          -           I          I        _           _           _           _             1           7
East Kalimantan                     3          -          -           I          -         -           -           -           -            -           4
Riau                                2          1          -           -          -        -            -          -           -            -            3
Jambi                               I          I          -           I          I         -           -           -           -            -           4
Rengkelu                            I          -          -                                                                                             I _  _  _  _  _  _
Central Sulawesi                    2          -          -           -          -         -           -           -           -            -           2
South-east Sulavesi                 I          -          -           I          -        -            -          -           -            -            2
Kaluku                              3          -          -           -          -         -           -           -           -            -           3
Irian Jaya                          4          -          -           I          -        -           _           -           -            -            5
East Timor                          1               --                                                                                      -           1
Total                        166        35         16          16         12         6           4           2          17           16         290
of whtch:
KOH (Central/Province)       87          7          9          16         11         S           4           2           8           16         165     v
Armed Forces                 20           1         1           -          I         -           -           -           -            -          23     SN
Private Sector               59         27          6           -          -         1                 -                 9            -         102     "'_



$Abuts kcoamt bo ?,.*tt co*wu,
M-U*IEf3 N6ALtI 'MU* KWLMIOIn
fdkq02CML 1102120 $DM
IWIITVIWA  3                                 2~~~~~~~~~~~~ftri.   Ul                      %Ioo.                           Suiiroio         -.----7i:al
*  110   IWi      4011     NAM9  WUIlfUl 2402A0420                      4031TO                      ~-    003MT                      0431DM  90W1O               Coaim     inl
XAMIA4090    LUIlI   (0lUS        2113 9112  mm0  (DV) (AM)2  (K63             21992   040231 (MIll)  ism)2   K440U              713111  SOlO   dm0411?             MMK    m   10        1TSUI     I  hW
I. 11304221M COlst
A. Ulm 022                                                                            3122,   104.0       104.0  130.0    214.0       104.*                      203 .                              -              42.0  323.4       449.0  2o.W2   20.,  M0.2
I. CIVIL VWS                                            6,4.2                       3.    .0 497.4      0,207.0  114.2  112.91,   10239.4              453.4  4C06.?    10.16141         -                   -  3.4,9 2,233.21   2,112.0  29,34.0   9.9 2,370.4
C. Palm4. (3610901  MU MIUOLs
1146296                                   -       -      123,1   44.9       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~104.0   32.4    257.2    1324  07.0    W0.     090.4        -*                       40145   23.3        90.2  3.460.3  30.0  3".0
lu314  136210(1                                          -                           9.0  217.1         34.0   27.3      11.9       03.3             43.9    290.         405.4                                  M  3.?    21.0     21.9  2,1s63.   It..  224.0
10334 136210                                                                -        02  1.2     311.7I?  242.4    121,2           214.2            231.1    973.1      1:09M.                                  1 33.3    20.2      10.1  4.969.7  20.6  417.
442201                                                                              334 I?#             U.       47      5.         33:4             33:4    217.0        34.2         .232.1    04:1                               "J.  2d32.2   04   209:
1'hTBuO   r0210. 1. A901  0013240.                                                    340.51011.12        129.4  349.2  2,041.0       43.0             420.7, 3.2.4        3.2,                     4932.4  -299.                    -01.3  19,923.  719. 14.t1.0
I. tuCAL wiloc,tu  rawaols
3511. . .......                                                                                           .      .*-                                                                          5,9    395                                  e230 0.           .
3*-.0.   LuT01                                    1.041.,                                                                                                                                      ,o      0.                                   ..        .      .
346.1131019020                                    221.0 &7,                                                                                                                                401.9    1,7                             -   2.304,9   .0.    9.0
6*P-fatal IflL2PI                                    513.3       P7,1   934,3                 .                                        ..3.6   744.4                                                                -                      292.0   0.0    .0.
9*904*2 2409COLM.  I30?       M  101112               2:12127.7   7d  9116.8              -      -                    -.                                            .391,015     923,3                                 -                  - 1054.   4.0    0.0
F. M   t 03*12D    4011V192(1 1T920202                  132.2      336.2   299,1          .      --                   -        -          ...                                                              0.                                   95V.3   0.       .
T..11U 4991 t   CT O MT$                                *N37          2).  1.206,3   2,320.3 7,362,8       26922.413,273.3  2,236.0   2,7172      2.2   2-,   0.64.1         34,127.1   309.3     122.02,   1331.1  &.4911,9  2,127.0   2:17.4  M:112.2   1.9 34410.1
7.4*1 0AI1100 cots                                        2.007,2     202.0  12:29.3   2:120.1 1.$.13,      3,92.4 1,211.5  3.12334    3,702.2           1:212.1   4115.1     14:121.4   209.3    1.222,o 1,141.0   0.64.9  2,977.0   2:117,4 3.31.2    1.9 3:100.
fMautl C.ntIimov.n                                           .         -               2512.?  71.3        392.0  122.!    223.s       371.2            227.2    040.1      3.432       to            -             049.2    3.         2513.7  1.200,l   M.     0.0           e
Franv CNnolirsoca                                        434.3      3197    512.4      502.9 2.219,3      2324   248.3    300,         423.9            140.4    94?.)      1232.01    23.2       292.3    209.4    M29.    446.1      447.2  11,046.5   7.9  423.1             I
2,4.                                     -.-...--                                     .       ...04................
.IUI 9905(  toOS                                          3340        220317.            :3.  ,0.           2,314.9 3,04.2  4.039,1   2.314.3            2,53t10  8.071.0    31.093,2   209.3    12124.3  31512.1  7,249.3  3.5).4   3.230.  72.437,0   1.2 3.002                 -jZ
.nn  us   ....-. mnmnnn     run t?lz-? ztf *fl  flnnt t -Stu  n.-S:     -- - n,   .-.                5.m   S             ttSlltt-     t  I.llS           i
30.4)64 lsn9-w*                                        2:371.0      ','.I 2."!.2       71.0 4:342,3        111.4  517.1  2,10.1        740.9            2142,   2,377.5     3.421.0   249.3      1.241,3  3,120. 1 2,07.2   744,2       043.2 2S1:24.0   0.9 31tM.5
..   .................. ...............................----                                            --- ---.--       -  ---  -  -- ------.                      ... ...       .....     .. ...........    ......



SECOND HEALTH NiOIER KWELWLTI KOJECT
Table 101. INSTITUTION STREN9GTHENING CENTER FOR EUTION W IHEATH VWER (PUSDIWW1ES,JAKRTA
ktailed Cost Table
<I1 illion)
Totals IclfudiM Cont1iMi. es
QuantitY                                 ease Costs              Totals lncludirE Cntirencies                (UlBS '000)
Urit    15/U U6/87 87/  88/89 Total Unit Cost 85/36  86/67  87/58 88/39 Total   85/U6 86/17  97/i8  6A/19 Total   l5/86 36/S7  S7   0/89 Total
33:2222*2  :212=22 22=2 :2: =2222 328223  2221S2:22  MM== 3X52222 322222 222 22 222222: --2'-            2    3822222        cc=2:=c '32= _*2= _a _ S  Sl
I. INESTNEKN COSTS
A. CIVIL          /                                        -    --                             252.1  252.1  94.5  31.5   U0.3  269,5  290,3 117.5  42.3  719,7  245.0  261.9 106.9 38.5  654.3
3. TECN4ICL SSIS1IIIE AilN FELLOUSHIPS
1. CIStMIlTS
...........
LWA  CN0lSIMTAlS /h                  IKWN          4.3  9.6  9,6    -   24         1,246    6,0   12.0  12,0    -   30.0   6,4   13,9  15.0    -   35.3   5.9   12,6  13.6    -   32.1
FOREIGN COSLTAIS /c                   rlhTH    33.6 67.2 50,4  16.3  161           9.415 316,3  612.7 474.5 158,2 1W51W7  332.1  706,3 572,3 206.2 1,919.4  301.9  644.0 520.71B7.5 1454,0
Su-Total COMSTATB                                                                            322,3  644.6 416.5 158,2 1.611,6  318.5  M.2 567.B 206.2 1,954.9  307.7   56.6 534A4 117.5 1,486.2
2. FLLOiSWHIPS
LOUTERN FEUlMHIPS  /d                rELLOIP         -    2    3    1    6    36.937          -    73.9 110.3  36.9  221,6      -   82.7 1331 41.2   264U.       -   75.2 121.6  43.3  240.6
SI4T-TER FEIUNSIPS I /               MELLEIP         4    4    5    4    17    11,613  4U,5   46.5  58,1  46,5  197,4  46.S   52.0  70.1  60.6  231.4  44.3   47.3  U.1  55,1  210.4
0-TE1M  FELLOUmIPS 1 it             mFLWIP           -    4    4    4   12         6.765      -   27,1  27.1  27.1   31.2       -   30,3  32.7 35.3   96.2       -   .27.5 29.7 32.1   99.3 
SIORT-TERI E11,LA.UI   TRAINING /     MELISIHIP--           -     -      -                  2,5    2,5  2.5  2.5    9.9   2,6    2,8  3.0  3.2   11.5   2.4    2.5  2.7  2.9   10.5
._....   .......  ... ..  ._________--___ .
Sub-Total FELLOUHIPS                                                                          41.9  149.9 1".4 112,9  510,1  51.4  167.1 2395 147.2  6059   46.7  152.5 217.7 133.1  550.
3. 6OPr ENIATIONML ACTIITIES Ih                                                               33.8   33.3  33,8 33.9  135,2  36.3   39,2  42.4  45.7   1616   33.0   35.7 35.5 4I.t   143.
Suib-Total TECHlICAL ASSISTAME AND FELUOSIPS                                                   405.0  32.3 713.7 304,9 2,256.9  426.2  M92 369.7 399.2 2624J3  387.4  344.l 7o.6 362.9 2,3i5.7
Total IINITIENT COSTS                                                                             657.1 1.0M.4 113,2 316,4 2,7.2  695.7 1219.69 "7,2 441. 3,34.0  U2.4 1i,1067 997.5 401.4 3,040,0
Ra2s2 223232  222= 2I=22 8222=2    2=322=    321xr   mIa   29222222   =     323 32222 1131
Total                                                                                              657,1 1,060.4 913.2 336.4 2,117.2  695.7 19219.6 927.2 441.5 344,0  632.4 1,109.7 37.5 401.4 3,040,0
832222  C322222232I22222111222=2322t  2222lti 3111131222 3222 2=212 2322=2  322= MX22 111119M 3  32x=2
/a  COSTS FR SIUWJISIIONM  COFIIAITION O  CUTJIIU lINTiATIEN n PUSJIMIS
/b  2 CO TMTS FOR 12 TIMS 1104
Ic  11 CONSITISI 3 FO  24 RTU  EAC11H0 A     FO  12 TIIS E140
Id 6 FOR ISTER LEEVL IU fillI NM AT  WUL RATE
/I  17 FUr   WS  OF 3 NMiS 140 AT 56 EKTPKSI3OL RATES
If 12 FOU     IPS OF 3 JWM  EACH AT El E3IOWd RATES
b  FSORWI mtK m (       TUN1.)
/l FE 35 m tm  5I6tt EtC.
--------.---------. . .............. . ...... ._ . ... .....                                                                                                                       __..



IESS IEMTN (WM~E SEEWLOWIITNIJ CT
Table 102. I11ITU1IN StOSIlMISI PIOIIIL HEALTH E.C, UIITS
ktaild Cost Table
(MM  lNillian)
otols IrclIdiid Catiniwius
Uhaij                                  kwu Cmts             Totals Includird CantiMeis               (UN '000)
(hit    35/3  8/7 87AU WM  Total Unit Cost AM4  MM?77/M /3  Total                 / SU/17 87/      /  Total  N5/3 57 O      /U V /   Total
=22=22  2 m = *iii  2        222*=28*2zX= mm =2*2*   222225=    5222Saoa    *2, *22 2==222*2*2* 2=m  31121=2 2232  32in=
1, I1T11CM. ASS
I.s FEL_IPS
MT-MN FLuLSps /a                  mLUIP           2    3    3    2   10        6.765  13.5  20.3 20.3 13.1  67.7   14,2 22,7 24,5  17,6  79.1   12.9  20*7 22.3  10  71.9
Stb-Total FLULOHIPS                                                                        35  20.3  20.3  13.5 A7.   14.2 22.7 24.1  17.6  79.1   12.9 20.7  22.3  16.6  71.9
Sib-Total TECHICAL ASSISITNE M  FELLOSIPS                                                    13.5  20.3  20.3 13.5 67,7   14,2  22.7  24.5  17.6  9.l   12.9  20.7 22.3  16,.  71.9
3. 6U lMATIONAL ACTIVITIES b                           -         -     -     -     -         27,0 40,6 40.  27.0 135.2   29.0 47.1  50.3  36,.163,5   26.4  42.8  46,2  33 140,7
Total IMISTIW  COSTS                                                                             06A  60, At O0. 202.    43.3 *9.3  75.3 54.2 242.4   39.3 43,4  48.  49.3 220.5
Totl                                                                                             40.6  0.9  60.9  40, 202,9   43.3  0.3  75.3 54.2 2424    39.3  43.4  48.5  49.3 220.5
wsa   *22: 2=  gin   waR   2.32    22 2=  _                 _ * _m  em  s           mm
/a  10 FUONSHIPS Of 3 NMl! EACH T 1A 0 II1K WIK RATES
/b W"SSMIW ffN11 ETC.
/t -  -          a --    -------. 



StCQ WAM.THI (IMPWl KJEWLWEPJi UPlT
Table 103. 1NSII1I1IUE  *IUlEUl:ELU11TD MOIMU
Mtailed Cost Table
IIWIMH Million)
Totals Intludiri  Coat'  lns
Qitaiti                                 gm  Cats              Totals lItludir  Cotitff  ts             fuss10#)
W*it    85/3 W37 37/1U11 O3  Total IUit Cost   /3U 66/87 67/U I/90    Tet K5/l l 8737/0  W     Total              /W     1 7M VIM  3    TotI
smasa    _ss   _as as: am- _nsa  _naa.   _a  sa-r- saas.ssa _                _  _n .     sam  _s.           ~ --    _     a    m    s_ s _    a
Is IINUTl    COSTS
A. L         mwTN m F11USHIPI I /a    FIUMIP         5    A    6    6   23    22.632  114.2 137.0 137.0 137.0  525.1  119.8 153.4 165.4 179.6  617.2  109.9 139.4 150.3 162.4  561.1
is LoS  tw FM LMSnI  11 /b           FrLVnIP         -    2    3    2    7    32344           - 65.7  93.5  657  229.9        - 73.5 113.  35.6  273.1       - U.I 106.1 77.9  252.9
C. LWONTMULK O vajv     III /c         uINIIIP        -    2    2    2    6    36.937         - 73.9  73.9  73.9  221.4       - 32.7 S9.2  96.3  2U,2        - 75.2 31.1  17.6  2U.O
5. MI-no ano.  Us.  AINI*         14                  -        -     -     -     -          2.0  4.1  3.0  1.0   10.1   2.1  4.5  3.7  1.3   11.7   1.   4.1  3.3  1.2   10.6
Es VW   D1* ACTlVTIES f-                                                                   74,9  74,9  74.9  749   29.5   0.4  U6.9 93,1 101,3  362.5  73.1 79.0 E5.  92.1  329.5
Total lSTnTo COSTS                                                                           191.1 3555 W7.3  2.4 1,2U.3  22.4 401.1 471.0 463.2 1537,7  134.0 364.6 423.2 421.1 1m7.9
su      mam  ma__ss  ams _s. _as sas  mm   ma   _  _s    _   __m
Total                                                                                         191.1 315.5 337J3 352.4 123.3  2M2.4 401.1 471,0 463.2 1,537.7  134.0 364.6 423S2 421.1 137.9
/a 23 FmE1    IPS rFE 13 NM  Efl AT MEG EIWI  RAS
/b  7 rLEIIS FOR  11 KM sCf AT M  rWAM-IWL RMIS
/c  A MLGMIPS Fnt 1U KMENU1   AT MG U5M/KAS 
/d 36 FIMLM IINU-CORYT)l
t Is MOINOFI,EN ETC.
-  -  - --- --n.s - ------. ----



111n51*
3ECl  W    T I INTN  1   IWWENI) MICT
Tale 21. INUSTuTIM sON iTUinIt      :     F FOR Mt. I TRAII  TF NEMTH FWeu (MIO.T)
hulle Cost Table
(hWM NAlli)
I atitt                                   gm  tCts               Totus  rlunldird Cmtieiif s                 (as 133)
tihtit    5       U      WIN      Tn.l thit Cst  MU          7 K 7M VN    WO  lUl    NM        7 WI? 17 1/0 9 Totl    WU6W/U  17/1DRIP  TIut
I. IlISTlIEN   COStS
......_......
As MI1OIU    S As13 /a                                                           - -                     -     -     -      .5            -     --           7.6 6. 3       -    -      -    6.3
I. FOIN CUSLTMTS /b                       lllllm       12    12    12    12   11        9.415  113.0 113.0 113.0 113.0   451.9  1164 12245 136.4 147.3  .2O   107.1 115.0 124.06 3.J   MS.7
Co LWTM      o FEILLOHIP  I Ic          FIBL. rP        -      2     3     3    r      36.937         73,9 110.1116.3  295.5        -  52.7 133.8 144.5   3U1.0       -  75.2 121.6 13.31  =el
3. 116-TU FI r 11Ps It /d             rFCLL     IF            -     2     -     2     5,156       -     - - 111.5   -   1115             - 134.6      -   134*6      -     - 122.4     -   .22.4
E. SIMT-tI FULMIISn I J0                FEILLIWIP       -      2     2     -     4      9.133      -  10.3  11.3     -    36.5      -  20.5  22.1      -    42s       -  16.6  20.0     -    3B.
rf   Mt-TMiELrlutM         It /f           -um                3     4     -     1     14W         - I.0  15.4       -   114.4       - 58,9  73.9      -   133.9      -  0.1  71n.3         1 m.
i. DOT-TM  DI. LMS. 1^IlIW  /I                           .        -     -        - .              .   184   1.4   1.4    5.6    1.5  I.   1.7   1.1    6.6    1.3   1.4  1.5   1.7    6.0
.__ --                     _   __    _                    _           _  __  _ 
Tol IMSITNI CUTls                                                                                 129. 25.6 420.4 225.2 2,022.0  127.1 26.1 57.5 29.6 1.14.1  115.5 260.1 461.4 246.9 1,tg.t
_ =           _   -   _                   _ 1 _   _                 -   -=                   - _   _   _ _ 
Total                                                                                              120.9 256 42,4 225.2 122.0  127.1 26.1 537.5 293.6 1214.3  115.5 26.1 461.4 266.9 1911t1.
m- -   ----   ----      --      - -- - -     -         -- - --m                  - - - - -
..................... ........................._ . _... .. ..._ _.__.. _.
/a FM cWa  TMlUl
/b   2 FM  24  IlS f Ul
Ic  I FELLMII Al W4TEIR L          rFE 111NM  EAM  AT  S  U     ATE
/d  2 FnUIMs    AT PN..   W  At wI    MS 36T13
/5  4  MLOuIIF FM  6 MM F3 rA  10   Ellif  FATE
It  1 FmLMipS  rFM 6 rmEA AT S  nXiA-misi. mi1t
/0 FOR 20 mLF h  (I-C  .



WcON IUIIHi II         R IEWWIW) ?RUCT
Tale 202. IUTIMIUN S3MT        IN: T1lIN1 CIO=3
hkiled Cst Tale
(lUE Nillin)
Tfals ,   lImli   CAKU  v in
hmtitw                                   kw Costs               Totals Includlid Coiti'n I        I.f    '000)
Ihit    OM        7 M 7/U VI 3O   Total Unit Cost am/36W57 37/U UISY Tte           MM  M? V           07/O   Toal   65/636 VIN/WO/ Total
1. IWSME I ~CSTS
A, LcS-     FVm      in /a             rELLIaIp        -          IC   to   20    36.93          -     - 69,4 369.4  730.7        -     - 445U9 431,6  92.5       -     - 405.4 437.1  343.2
t.  MIT-ITO  1M. LAW. 1T31111  hb                                                                -   1.7  2M0   2.0    5.M        -   1.9  2.4   2.6    6a.       -   1.7  2.2  2.3    6.2
C. FOl[l IISTAMIT Ic                      NMll       5.4  12.      - -        1       9 .415   50. 113.6     -    -   2695   53,4 132.8    -        -  1362    .5 12.7        -    -   169.
o [e. FIlU  I         M /4                                     .       .     .     .          463  46.3  46U3  46.3  1U5.1  49.7  53.7 so.0  62.6  22 4.          4  6.3  5S.7  56.9   23.7                  .
E.  TUEN  me. FOR T EIRS /c                           -       -       -   -       -         101.4 131.4     -    -   202.t 16.9 117.7    -         -  226.6   9.0 137.0      -    -  201.6
Total I3fTII  CTs                                                                               11.5 2U.0 417.6 417,6 2301.l  212.0  .1 504.3 56.3 lV7.1  192.7 2.2 V        4.3 497.1 1t 3
Total                                                                                            I9.5 26U.0 417,6 4176 1.3013f  212.0 306.1 5063 5U4.3 1,571.1  192.7 2732 460.3 497.1 1,423.3
... ........ _.  .....__...._._._ ...    .. .._ . 
is20 MCU IPI AT Mi.TER LW   FOl Hl CA. AT UN  n                  ilS
/b  FM  20 FLIAN  t1U-ClT)
/c I fI 161116
/4  VWt (M TIIN. CTIVITY TO TWAIN C0K W   ATERMS
14 EMM  Eflit. ACTIITY TO TRUIN CM  W    ATAIRS
..__..... .  ... ..._ ............ ......... ........................... . ... ., ... _. _-_-_____-_-



- 45 -
alNICS 3
Table I
sawa IIULs   !11D03 IAm      o    n n
U3CMD lIMALTE (HNAIPOUEXDUV!LOPIUW) Puo.mcy
Zmpiematottou Schedule
Calendar Year                      19835      1953        1987          19U8        1919         1990
IRD PT (July-Jun)                   i    Y85 F687                 "as8    i     89        FY90 n91
Govt. FT tAprll-llrch)               85/86       16/87        87/88        a8/s9       89/90        90/91
A. mealth Henpower Dvolopmne          __t
Program Proposed by Govt.
for Raplita  V I V                     _ _
D. project
8e rd proaetattion
Loan effectiveneem
Project Completion                           _  _  _  _  _  _            _  _ _
Loa t  losing                    _  _  _ _  _.                                   .
C. Clvil Works
Acquisition of eddl. mites
(I) Batch I imtituttone /I
Preparation af documents
Tendering
Conetruction
Acquilition of furniture.
equipment. vehtclme and
mtrtala__
(2) batch It Itoitutione /2
Preparation of documents
Tenderinjg
Conatructlon
Acquleltton of furniture.
equipment. vehiele. and
meterlale
(3) Batch III lontitutione /3
Preparation of documeut.
Tendering
Conetructlono
Acquleition of furniture.
equipmetc. vehicles and
materials
D. T.A. and Follovehip.
Technilcal maietmnce
(foreign and local)                    -  -  -  -  -         -               _ _
Short-cern fellowehips                 _ _
Long-term fellombiLpe-                                       -
1.Studie.. 
_ _        _ _         _ _                                              :1:>.o___             ____    
F. Training (group educ.
actvitltee)                        _ _ _
1/   7 meltI-atrea  acaddeldev. 13 chaol./acadeade. A national ln-servce tretian-centere and I prowtncial
traniong ceontr.
2/   5 mchool -/academiee ad  3 regtonel/provinetal in-geveic- trainlog cent-r.
3/   7 *choolo/lacademl.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
List of Project Institutions
A. Paramedical Schools and Academies (32)
DKI Jakarta (3)
Jakarta                  Lab. Assistant School (SMAK)
Jakarta                  Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
Jakarta                  Multistream Academy (APRO/ATEM/AKPER)
West Java (3)
Sumedang                 Nursing School (SPK)
Tasikmalaya              Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
Bandung                  Medical Analyst Academy (AAM)
Central Java (3)
Semarang                 Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
Solo                     Physiotherapist Academy (AKFIS)
Semarang                 Multistream Academy (AKPER/APRO)
DI Jakarta (1)
Jogjakarta               Multistream Academy (AKZI/AKPER/APRO)
East Java (4)
Madiun                   Nursing School (SPK)
Kediri                   Nursing School (SPK)
Surabaya                 Multistream Academy (AKPER/AKFIS)
Malang                   Multistreas Academy (ACPER/AKZI)
Bali (1)
Denpasar                 Nursing Academy (AKPER)
North Sulawesi (2)
Manado                   Pharmacist Assistant School (SMF)
Manado                   Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
South Sulawesi (1)
Ujung Pandang            Multistream Academy (AKZI/AKFIS)
North Sumatra (1)
Medan                    Nursing Academy (AKPER)
West Sumatra (3)
Solok                    Nursing School (SPK)
Padang                   Multistreas Academy (AKPERIAKZI/AKP)
Padang                   Nursing School (SPK)
South Sumatra (1)
Palembang                Lab. Assistant School (SMAK)



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
DI Aceh (1)
Banda Aceh              Sanitarian School (SPPH)
West Nusa Tenggara (t)
Mataram                  Lab. Assistant School (SMAK)
East Kalimantan (1)
Samarinda               Sanitarlan School (SPPH)
Riau (1)
Tanjung Pinang          Nursing School (SPK)
Jambi (2)
Jambi                    Pharmacist Assistant School (SMF)
Jambi                    Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
Maluku (2)
Ternate                  Nursing School (SPK)
Ambon                   Dental Nurse School (SPRG)
Irian Jaya (1)
Manokwari                Nursing School (SPK)
B. Inr-Service Trainlng Centers (8)
DKI Jakarta
Cilandak                National
West Java
Clloto                  National
Lamah Abang             National
Central Java
Salaman                 National
East Java
Murnajatl               Regional
South Sumatra
Palembang               Regional
Ball
Denpasar                Provincial
Aceb
Banda Aceb              Provincial



Technical Assistance a*nd Vol 1 1Uh
Pnr..iIn Sri, 2taiimtu            Local SPaclalIata                  hna    bo~rh. Each
Haneooth       Total             Nannaclim       Total            Short-                       Toal
VFied                         No.       Each      "Samontha   No.         each      Namuntha   Me.   Term    N.A.   Ph.D.   NRnontbp
Center tor Uu. of HNelt  Manpaower
(L MlWAKE). Jikarta
(a) Ka-Raement and plannlru                   2        24           48         -         -             -         *      3         -       -         IN
I     _        II       _         IN
(h) Curriculum dewelopweimi                   I        24           24          1       12            12         2      3         -       -          6
I     _        II       _          IN1
(c) Technical auperw.iaupp. of               *         12           41b        -         -             -        13      1         -       -         l
edue. prolgram                                                                                            3
(4) Evaluation zad monaturtng                 2        12           24         1        12            12         4      3         -      -          12
I     _        IS       -         le
Ce) Informtlno.  sync"                       2         12           24         -         -             -         4      3         -      -          12
%tuh-Tatal                              11                     leN         2                     24         35
Prnwtonrtal L-evl Wealth fdue. lInit./2t
(a)  auhagoement  And planning                -         -                 -                - -                          3 '  '                      IS
(n) Techntcal superv./aupp. of                -         -            -         -         -             -         3      3         -      -          23
viue. prograw.                                                    _
Sub-lrTotal                              -                       -         -                      -         10                                  30
-41.vcted Ceiiteta
(a) Training for aurcn traer                 -          -            -         -         -             -        20      -        11      -         lb0
(b) Traitnit for cralner. In otler                                 -                                   -        IC      -                          214
pcrame,dicel ar=as                                              _
ta-                                                             -          -                      -         30
C-ntrf        ur *ral Try%         nith
Pr.onnevI (PI DIKATI. Ja&arts
(a) MAnaL aet* Planning. org.                 2        24           4S         -         -             -         *      -        as       -        2
ld_eveont
(h) Reweorch and development mud              -         -            -         -         -             -         2      -         _     13          0
Etvaluation
(c) Admintratinu                              -         -            -         -         -             -         4                -       -         24
(d) Technicsl  subject *r-am                  -         -            -         -         -             -         7      4         -       -         42
Slb-Totsl                                                       411        -                      -        21                                 27J
ln-s-rvi. T  tair.im   Crter
a) Puli- health education                     1        I Ia                   -         -             -        20      -        lb      -         30
Sul-Total                                I                      II                                         20                                 10
TOTAL                                   14                     2314        2                     24        122                              1.
I!  On- Engiabh l-nguam  tratntio  course In lodoemis will br pteolded  i th each loDg-tert   tellobhip.
lb  Plocae eotoe   Specialists based at centor will provlii  ausport       _eded to provincial ulte.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Selected Reference Materials Related to the Sector
A.1 Indonesia: Health Sector Overview. Report No. 2379-IND, February,
1979.
A.2  Indonesia: Health Sector Update.  (White cover draft).  September,
1981
A.3 Indonesia: Health Sector Review. (White cover draft). March, 1983.
A.4 Indonesia: Public Investment Review - Health Sector (draft).
December, 1984.
A.5  Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the Eight_es.
Report No. 3795-IND. May, 1982.
A.6  Indonesia: Selected Issues in Spatial Development.  Report No.
4776-IND.  April, 1984.
A.7  The Health Situation of Indonesia: (Statistical Profile).  Compiled by
the Bureau of Planning, Department of Health, Indonesia, for the ESCAP
Programme on Health and Development: Health Technical Paper
No.70/PDH 20, 1984.
A.8  Government of Indonesia: Fourh Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita IV), Chapters 10, 23 and 25.
A.9 Health and Population Sector Profile (draft). Asian Development
Bank. February, 1983.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
B.1 Indonesia: Health Manpower Report (White cover). October, 1982.
B.2 Repelita IV: Program Pendidikan Dan Latihan Tenaga Kesehatan
(1984/1985-1988/1989). (Long-term Health Manpower Development Plan).
Department of Health, Indonesia. 1984.



-48-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
B.3 Project Proposal for the Second Health (Manpower Development)
Project. Center for Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES), MOH,
Jakarta. October, 1984.
B.4  Project Proposal for the Second Health (Manpower Development)
Project. Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel
(PUSDIKLAT), NHO, Jakarta. October, 1984.
B.5  Rencana Pelaksanan Latihan Tenaga Kesehatan Repelita IV (Master
Training Schedule for Repelita IV). Center for Education and Training
of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT), IDE. Jakarta, 1984.
B.6 Laporan: Latihan Pelatih, Pekarya Kesehatan .[Pekarya (Nurse Assistant)
Training Program], MOB, Jakarta. July, 1984.
B.7 Project Paper Supplement: Health Training, Research and Development
(Project No. 497-0273). United States Agency for International
Development, Jakarta. August, 1983.
3.8 Health and Family Planning Project, Indonesia: Technical Assistance
Study. Asian Development Bank. July, 1984.
C. Working Papers
C.1 Architect's Working Papers, Second Health (Manpower Development)
Project, Appraisal Mission. October-November, 1984.



___  X__                     IL
FJ*-*fi~H"I1 7i 1iii                                         LhHtIHi[1 Xf[~ |i[~                         1:1                             II
IL !   '
'I i   ii    _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I a_   fit  a_        II
Iii                              ('I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
rLi    I          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
[II    I ~~~~~~~~~~~hII~~~~~~mBH~~~~IL~ ~[41
U!~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IL.



IN~ON[SIA
HEALIH (MANPOWER OEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
C-2: The Center for Education of Health Manpower
Center for Education
of HIealth Mpaerv
Secretariaot
Prormi        Finonce  Personnwl Ilk. AffairS
Progras iin y                            Impl ementat ion                                     _Cant inuing3                                Reporting/
Plamning                             Farsol Educat ion                                          Educatimn                                Evaluwation
H  Curriculue    |             H   ~~~Geneal Hursing  |                                  leaching License]                           D  ata Collection|
od1ching Methods                          Special Nursing                         .                    Pima                                   Statistics
Teach. NoterIals                            Cm. Servics                                              TIrainer                                  Repwtin 
l nstit.Ole |v                            dHlth. re^mlcgy                                         LearningFe Pr_                                 Evoluaition 



INDONESIA
HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
C-3: The Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel
Center faw Education and training
of Health Personnel
Secretariat
.ro g          Fen. Affairs
P rogrr ting/    |M|alnagement                                                                             [  raining                                Reotig
Plmn                                        Implemientation                                           lopeant  io                                   Evaluation
| Cturriculum    |                                                                                        Services                               DataConAdmnistrtion
Nethod/Didactic  |t. Phasing                                                                          D
l [each. Materials |                      j   Applied . p t.   |                                     "Rf. Services                                      Reporting
I nstit. Ovpat ;                               Fellowships                                           Foad/Drug  Cntr                                                     IwEvaluation



-    .THAILAND                                                    I                           lX
B:nds h                           ,J   i/ 
-           {:, . r .^   (-~~~~     ~      ~ r,  u               r             2x
X   St            ~~MALAYSIA                                                                     RU E,
- 2                             -*MALAYSIA                                                       )      
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~>  SINSI           GAPORE'                          .           _       _      /    .      -     '. 
{*  ,   \,_i  --  ---jTnwn       S                       -                   t             23
-@ - 7,. - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t~ A i -1 M  A >rH  
f     4         _                                    
Pmdeng 00 5r0i 3 
SON 5on.  5 <
PROVINCES -\  
2 SLOATEEA UTAla- 
3 5UWArEMA *^IIAT                     |
4 RIAU<  
5 J^_t                                                            ^                      a           CFXfr                        Ulm  f'
6> SumATERAS ULATA                :lns -7 ^CI
el    7 ONGuLu                                        \_                   LaSbEbng
8   C                                                  {       XOClLD.SC
9 O.VJI. JTA TA                                                   .A
120.1. VC<AKARITA                                          -.... B_aKndung.,   'i;l--fo-qfjt   
ISs"TEAAc zl,lRApE
16--Esa-      n_ Aed    O .4 BB                                                                                /
Z|SUUAO  Tf"CGM
2215uaEsl STUITzA
23FALMOTAk TOUR
24 laE= SELATsV
25 KAu*TArA TEwm
2O AumTAn sUT
27n1V TIMN
1oc                                  NW                                                                            1f_



IBRDQ1796R
X ">   X  '  ',!                      ~~~~~~I N D O N E S I A
PHILIPPINE!S'-      SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Project FinancedTrainingInstitutions
* Paramedical Schools
Y~        /* Paramedical Academies
v e h e                                               &3 ^ t   tE :   /   * In-Service Training Centers
o Towns and Cities
uanad%,2   /   ,* g ,. .               National Capital
-- . ,  .  -       /     ,' k '-- :' -:         Provincial Boundaries
\  w   C   -     -   /       ^'-  - ~~~HALMHERA
19                                        Intemational Boundaries
-~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     U0~~~.8Manok%vWmrN'
20     *                       -
'SULA WESI                  - -
22'        v
Ambon i                            IRIAN   JA YA
Ago.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                         1_-!                                               6 
<U,,fS,l ' -.  '                                                                     _  _ r _~~~~~~~~~~U
'--_~         ~     ~ '_', -                                                            ..  t
16                                                         o~ 27  10   200 3x 00    100^ --
rs,JMI                                                                        MILESt add
o_ __r~~~~~~~~ o                        _,
N~~~~~~~~~~~~
3 00  200  300 400 300 
KILOMETERS          f.ftwe"w a
121                           or                            1306 I          E,         
APRIL 1985






