Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report Ne.P-4040-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$39 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
April 17, 1985
This dcent ha a res ticted distribfion and may be used by recpiens only in the perfonmance of
their officd dutie  Its conmets may not otherwise be disclosed without World BDnk athorirtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1 million = US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB           -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Agency
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
LAN           -  Institute of Public Administration
LCB           -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOH           -  Ministry of Health
MOPE          -  Ministry of Population and Environment
NFPCB         -  National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PUSDIKLAT     -  Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel
PUSDIKNAKES   -  Center for Education of Health Kanpower
REPELITA      -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-
74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94; Repelita
VI, 1994-99)
USAID         -  United States Agency for International Development
WHO           -  World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA.
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:         US$39.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:  The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) help expand
the output and improve the quaLity of the Ministry of Health
(MOH) paramedical manpower through (i) strengthening the
Center for Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) by local
and overseas training and technical assistance; (ii) providing
new and/or improved physical facilities for 32 schools and
academies in 18 provinces; (iii) carrying out three studies
required to further develop manpower development policies for
the Government's Fifth NationaL Five-Year Plan for 1989-94
(Repelita V) and beyond; and (b) help expand the capacity for
and improve the quality of MOH's in-service education and
training through (i) strengEhening the Center of Education and
Training of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT) by local and overseas
training and technical assistance; and (ii) providing new
and/or improved physical facilities for eight in-service
training centers. The principal direct benefits of the proj-
ect would be: expansion of the quantity and improvement of
the quality of paramedical manpower in the health system;
institutional strengthening of the MOH's newly-established
centers for in-service and pre-service paramedical training;
and contr:bution to the health manpower policy formulation
process for Repelita V and beyond. Because this would be the
first Bank-assisted project undertaken by two recently estab-
lished Centers, there is a prima facie risk of some delay in
project implementation and of its institution-building goals
not being met. The advanced status of preparation of the
project's physical infrastructure components and the technical
assistance to be provided to the two Centers would reduce this
risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be_used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:  /a                                 Local      Foreign        Total
…------_US$ Million) --------
A.     Pre-Service Health Manpower Development
Institutional Strengthening                     1.0        3.0          4.0
Paramedical Training Institutions              24.8       11.4         36.2
Studies                                          -         0.2          0.2
Subtotal                                 25.8        14.6         40.4
B.     In-Service Health Personnel Development
Institutional Strengthening                     0.4         1.7         2.1
In-Service Training Centers                     8.3        2.5         10.8
Subtotal                                  8.7         4.2         12.9
Total Base Cost                          34.5        18.8         53.3
Physical Contingencies                          3.3        1.4          4.7
Price Contingencies                             5.2        2.7          7.9
Total Project Cost                       43.0        22.9         65.9
Financing Plan                                      Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Million)
IBRD                                           17.1       21.9         39.0
Government of Indonesia                        25.9         1.0        26.9
Total                                    43.0        22.9         65.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY            1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
--     -(U1  MillUion)---- -
Annual              7.0    13.3    10.5       5.9     2.3
Cumulative          7.0    20.3    30.8    36.7    39.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   5442-IND, dated April 17, 1985.
Map: IBRD No. 18796R.
/a  Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
1.        r submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republ; of Indonesia for the eq'iivalent of US$39 million to help
b        finance the Second Health (Manpower Development) Project.  The loan wouLd have
a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY V
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns. Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more chan 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4Z p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP y7r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculat.on of GNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in 'public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (COI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipcs also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Hanufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration.



-3-
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4%
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit was reduced Erom US$7.3 billion (8.4X of
GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$2.7 billion (3.5% of CNP) in 1984/85. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cucs, -esulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings
from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and che
Government's policies to promote non-oil exports. The Government's Lestraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have probably fallen
over the past three years. This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep
domestic inflation down to about 12X in 1983 and 9% in 1984, despite the
inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaLuation and the petroLeum
price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is prob-
ably necessary to have a significant impact on empLoyment creation and poverty
alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate,
without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the
major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/poLicy
environment for private investment), rationaLization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years.  At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives.  It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economiic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist



- 4 -
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair compe-
tition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and competitive-
ness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocatioiL. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand.  This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the natu-
ral increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those
of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita



- 5 -
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
Telis is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oiL sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverrv. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particuLarly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where Landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper
rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983 de-
valuation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will bt  a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the grnwth
in Lhe labor force is expected to increase over thc next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the iabor
maetket is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to encou-
rage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the bur-
den of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government needs
to ensure that incentives appropriateLy reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole sys-
tem. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population



- 6 -
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75Z,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic                       U
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also aLelp co hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essencial if the
Government's modest growth targets (5Z p.a.) for che nexc five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development assi-
stance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$21.7 billion, with an additional US$13.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(incLuding non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obLigations
at variable interest rates for only 23%; there is no short-term pubLic debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
15 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 26% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private 4LT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 21% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancelLations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's total (disbursed)
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.



-7-
external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and the share of debt
service, 10.3% compared with 13.3% and 7.9Z, respectively, in [982. Annex II
contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of March
31, 1985. From 1968 until 1974, aLl Lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following che commodity
and oil price boom in L973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's ler':ng in the
remainder of the 1970s was through [BRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primariLy on poverty grounds, as the per capita CNP
was welL below the IDA cutoff Level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage oE skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for ureinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitabLe income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to iaprove income distribution and alleviate pov-
erty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic



work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-
ture continues to receive che most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource devel-
opment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector planning.  In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on improv-
ing the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban development
and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to daveloping inno-
vative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening local
institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and decen-
tralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's
lending program is incended to contribute about 202 of Indonesia's capital
requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an important
catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to
widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well as
complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other donors.
This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban development,
water supply and transportation.
20.       There hat been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio- from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 19% in FY84. The poor
FY80 ratio was in Large part mereLy a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation difficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cvcle. The combined effects of all of these activ-
ities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million in
FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the Bank-
wide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping the
Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the begiiLning of the fiscal year.



_ 7 _
industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and policies,
as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one
of the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the
procurement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. Ir is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote
continued attention rn these and other aspeccs of project implementation in
the coming year, ir. order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR S/
Sector Background
21.       Despite .onsiderable improvements during the last 20 vears, the
overall health status of Indonesia's population remains poor and is inferior
to that of comparable lower income countries. In 1982, life expectancy at
birth yas 53 years, up from 41 years two decades earlier; the crude death
rate 6 was 13 per thousand. about 43% lower than in 1960; and the infant
mortality and child death rates were about 102 per thousand live births and 13
per thousand children aged 1-4 years, respectively, compared to 150 and 23 in
1960. Significant disparities exist in both mortality and morbidity among
Indonesia's widely dispersed regions and, within regions and provinces,
between the rural and urban areas - with the average urban resident in Java
enjoying much better health status and access to health services than the
average rural dweller in the Other Islands.
22.       Indonesia's epidemiological profile has not changed markedly during
the last decade or so. The most prevalent causes of overall morbidity and
mortality continue to include respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases, skin
and eye infections, intestinal parasites, and vector-borne diseases, princi-
pally malaria. Up to one-half of total mortality occurs among children below
5 years of age; the leading causes of death are diarrhea, lower respiratory
infections and neonatal tetanus. In addition, available survey data show that
nationwide about 7 million children aged 1-5 years, or about 30% of all pre-
schoolers, suffer from protein-calorie malnutrition. It is estimated that
about 80Z of infant deaths could be avoided through simple, low-cost therapy
and prevention. As such, improved maternal and child health services (includ-
ing appropriate family planning and nutrition interventions) are an obvious
priority.
5/   A more detailed treatment of population status, policies and sectoral
development issues in Indonesia is given in the President's Report on the
Fourth Population Project (No. P-4026-IND) circulated under cover of R85-
104, dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.
61   Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given -ear.



- 10 -
Health Administration and Financing
23.       The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for the formulation and
implementation of national health policy and for the overall administration,
coordination and management of the country's health system. It is headed by
the Minister, responsible to the President, and consists of the Secretariat-
General, the Inspectorate-General, and four Directorates-General: for
CourAunity Health, Medical Care, Communicable Diseases and Environmental
Health, and Food and Drugs. The Secretariat-General consists of Bureaus for
Planning, Personnel, Finance, Logistics, Health Legislation and Public
Information, Organization, and General Affairs. At the provincial level, a
similar structure prevails, with Provincial Health Officers, who report
directly to the Minister, each responsible for overall coordination of all
public health services in the area(s) under their jurisdiction.
24.       Owing partly to the significant role of the private sector, particu-
larly in the urban areas, public health expenditure - per capita, as a
proportion of GNP and of total central government spending - remains extremely
low in Indonesia in relation to other comparable countries. For example,
although the health sector's share of total central government expenditure
increased from about 2% in 1977/78 to about 2.5% in 1981/82, it remained
substantially below the levels allocated in China (4.9%), the Philippines
(5.0%) and Thailand (4.3%) in 1981. Health sector financing issues in
Indonesia are extremely complex, but given the population's low health status
and the country's currently constrained resource position, increasingly
important. The Government has begun to address the issue of health financing
with assistance from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the World Health Organization (WHO), and from the Bank.
Health Services
25.       Indonesia's health care delivery system consists of a referral net-
work of public and private primary, secondary and tertiary facilities. How-
ever, the principal source of modern health services for the 120 million
Indonesians -who live in rural areas is the Government-operated primary-level
system of health centers, subcenters and mobile centers under the technical
responsibility of the Directorate-General of Community Health. Health centers
provide basic medical care, materr.al and child health services, family
planning services, communicable disease control (including immunizations),
hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, community health education, school health
and dental treatment. Their staff are also responsible for recording vital
statistics and health information reporting. In 1983/84, there were 5,353
health centers throughout the country, serving an average populztion varying
from 8,000 per center in the less populated provinces to 45,000 per center in
the densely populated provinces of Java. Below and linked to health centers,
health subcenters in the main villages provide basic maternal and child health
care, including vaccination and health education. Each subcenter, of which
there were 13,636 in 1983/84, services an average population varying from
3,000 to 10,000. Finally, there were 2,479 mobile health centers in 1983/84,
each providing basic health care to villages unserved by a static unit. The
outreach of this primary-level system of health centers and subcenters to the
community has been an important government concern during the last few years.



- Ll -
In 1977, a ViLlage Community Health Development Program was introduced, under
which village health volunteers were, after Limited training, expected to
provide, on a part-time basis, simple preventive and curative care, be respon-
sible for about 30 families, and be paid in cash or kind by the community.
Village Community Health Development Program activities had been initiated in
about 700 villages by 1982.
26.       The efEectiveness of the above primary-level health system, speci-
fically its utilization, remains limited--owing partly to socio-culturaL and
behavioral factors, which will only gradually be overcome, and partly to the
poor quality of the services, mainly a function of inadequate numbers of
qualified personnel. Most heaLth centers are operating with Less than 20% of
the required complement of nurse and technical paramedical staff, while sub-
centers are generally staffed only by a single part-time auxiliary rather than
the nurse and 1-2 auxiliaries required. As a result, not only is the quality
of health care provided within primary-level facilities low, but the health
centers are virtualLy unable to provide needed technical supervision for
community health programs or support for the family planning program, which
must rely increasingly on health center staff to administer the more effective
forms of contraception (e.g., intra-uterine devices) that are now being pro-
moted. Without substantial increases in the numbers of nurses and other
paramedicals available to the primary health system, further personnel
shortages (and hence further deterioration in service quality) are likely as
the Government proceeds with plans to build additional rural heaLth infra-
structure. Indeed, as part of its continuing effort to improve physical
access to modern health services, the Government plans during Repelita IV to
add 500 new health centers, about 6,000 subcenters and 1,500 mobile centers to
the existing infrastructure.
Health Policies
27.       In early 1984, the MOH finalized a poLicy document entitled "The
National Health System," which, for the first time, establishes a broad con-
ceptual foundation for the long-term development of Indonesia's health
system. In addition, it provides a planning and programming framework for
Repelita IV within the perspective of specific national public health goals to
be achieved by the year 2000. The latter include: an increase in average life
expectancy at birth to 60 years; a reduction in infant mortality to 45 per
thousand live births; a 50% reduction in the incidence of most communicable
diseases; and a 67% reduction in protein-calorie malnutrition in children
under five years. Against this background, Repelita IV identifies five key
principles as the basis of health sector policies, programs and activities
during the 1984-89 period, as follows: (a) strengthening health service
delivery, including measures to support and expand primary health care activi-
ties at the community/village level; (b) strengthening health manpower devel-
opment; (c) expanding activities to improve nutrition, potable water supply,
and environmental health; (d) establishing programs to strengthen the overall
management of the health system; and (e) improving the supply, distribution
and quality of drugs, medicines and medical equipment. The establishment of
heaLth manpower development as the second highest priority is, in the context
of Indonesia's health sector, significant evidence of political and bureau-
cratic commitment. In view of its relevance to the background and rationale



- 12 -
for the proposed project, thL question of health manpower development is
discussed below in more detail.
Health Manpower
28.       During Repelitas II and III, while rapid development of the primary-
level system of heaLth centers and subcenters was underway, it was recognized
that the potential of these service facilicies would not be fully realized
unless similar efforts were made to develop sufficient numbers of adequately
trained personnel to staff them. However, despite substantial increases in
health manpower (albeit from a very low base), it was clear by the early 1980s
that the demand of the pubLic health system (including hospitals) for nurses
and other technical paramedicals was outstripping the supply. In addition,
the quality of available paramedical manpower was low, owing to the absence of
systematic in-service education and training, poor management and technical
supervision, low salaries, and limited prospects for career development and
continuing education, except in the main urban areas. In the circumstances,
during Repelita III, the MOH (with assistance from WHO, USAID and the Bank)
began, for the first time in a systematic way, to address these problems and
to consider both short- and long-term health manpower development objectives.
29.       First, and understandably, in light of the paramedical manpower
shortage that catalyzed the process, the MOH prepared a long-term health
manpower development plan covering the three Five-Year Development Plans
through the year 1999 (Repelitas IV-VI). This plan projects manpower
requirements by category and by program area based an the health status and
health service targets established for the three periods concerned. During
Repelita IV, MOH plans to increase its overall manpower by about 75%, from
about 162,000 at present to about 284,000 by 1988/89. Of this total, nurses
would increase from 44,650 to 76,240 (71%), technical paramedicals from about
12,000 to about 38,460 (220%), and auxiliary health workers from about 29,470
to about 50,460 (71%). Second, the MOH plans to increase significantly both
the capacity and the quality of its existing in-service training system,
partly with technical assistance already available from USAID (long-term) and
WHO (short-term) and partly with financial and technical assistance under the
proposed project described later in this report and a project proposed by the
Asian Development Bank (ADB). Third, MOB senior staff at the central,
provincial and district levels are undergoing training, individually and in
groups, at a variety of public health, management, and health planning courses
and seminars, both in-country and overseas, under USAID and WHO auspices and
with Bank assistance under the Provincial Health Project (Loan 2235-IND).
Finally, with WHO technical assistance, a bachelor's degree-level curriculum
in nursing has been developed and was introduced in 1984/85.
30.       With a view to the Longer term, the MOB is currently developing a
manpower data and information system as the necessary basis for defining
systematic personnel administration, staff compensation and career development
policies and procedures. This process is the main focus of a health manpower
planning technical assistance project financed by USAID. With regard to
training and organizational issues specifically, plans are underway to estab-
lish education and training units or divisions in all MOH provincial offices,
starting in the five provinces of East, West and Central Java, North Sumatra



- 13 -
and South Sulawesi; this is an important first step towards strengthening and
decentralizing responsibility for pre- and in-service training at the provin-
cial level. Finally, in order to strengthen the MOH's central managerial,
supervisory and technical support for paramedical training and for in-service
education and training, the former National Center for Education and Training
was reorganiz-d in mid-1984 into two new and expanded centers: one for (pre-
service) Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) and one for (in-service)
Education and Training of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT). The establishment of
separate centers for pre- and in-service training wilL ensure that adequate
attention is paid to both.
31.       In summary, a very substantial agenda of health manpower development
work has been defined, within the framework of a long-term heaLth manpower
development plan. Activities have been initiated in most of the priority
areas concerned. with existing and planned external financial and technical
assistance from ADB, USAID, WHO, and including the proposed loan from the
Bank.
Paramedical Manpower Training
32.       Paramedicals for all leveLs of the public health system are
recruited almost entirely from the 165 paramedical training schools and acade-
mies operated by KOH central and provincial authorities. The MOH's insti-
tutions offer three-year courses to 120 students (3 classes of 40 each), who
must be junior and senior high school graduates before entering a school and
an academy, respectively. Taking into account attrition, the MOH estimates
that up to about 6,100 paramedicals graduate each year from its 141 schools
and 24 academies. However, the quality of education offered is far from
uniform, owing partly to inadequate physical facilities and insufficient
equipment, books and teaching materials in many institutions. A significant
proportion of all schools and academies, perhaps as high as 40%, are housed in
temporary faciLities, without proper demonstration or laboratory facilities,
discussion rooms and, in some cases, basic teaching space. Others lack
sufficient equipment, vehicles (for field practice), library books and other
teaching materials needed for a quality training program. In addition, many
institutions, particularly those in rural areas, face shortages of teachers
and are, therefore, obliged to operate with less than the required complement
of full-time teachers, relying on local health professionals to teach selected
classes and subjects. In addition to the above MOH training institutions,
there are about 100 private sector schools, almost exclusively for nurses and
assistant pharmacists, which serve the staffing requirements of private
hospitals and clinics, mainly in the urban areas.
33.       Against this background, and given the manpower goals established
for Repelita IV and beyond, the MOH's near-term strategy for increasing the
output of paramedical manpower, while at the same time maintaining its qual-
ity, may be summarized as follows. First, to help satisfy urgent, short-term
needs during Repelita IV, it has adopted two temporary expedients: (a) the
introduction of "paralLel classes," i.e., supplementary classes of up to
40 students each in seLected existing private and public schools and
academies; and (b) expansion of the category of auxiliary health workers who,
with three months' basic training, will be posted as aides to nurses and



- 14 -
technicaL paramedical staff. Second, to expand its longer-term capacity for
paramedical manpower training, the MOH plans to increase the number of its
schools and academies. A limited investment program for 90 institutions has
been sanctioned during Repelita IV: construction of 48 new schooLs and
academies and rehabilitation or construction of permanent facilities for 42
existing schools and academies currently functioning in temporary. borrowed
facilities. The MOH plans to establish these institutions with assistance
from the Bank under this project, other donors (principally ADB and USAID),
and from the Government's own resources. Some of the new academies will be
developed in groups of two or three technical streams on the same site, partly
for economy in construction and partly with a view to developing a common core
curriculum and teaching for the different disciplines at the "multi-stream"
academies. Third, to improve the quality of paramedical training and upgrade
the quality of paramedical skills, the MOB plans to: (a) increase the supply
of full-time teachers, through the introduction of an abbreviated three-month
teacher training course, together with parallel streams in each of the four
teacher-training schools' regular one-year diploma courses; and (b) s.crengthen
significantly its in-service education and training system, partly tc
strengthen the managerial and supervisory skills of MOH staff as a whoLe, and
partly to remedy potential deficiencies in pre-service paramedical training
arising from the expanded output described above. In this connection, it
plans to increase the number of in-service training centers, from 10 at pre-
sent, to 24 by the end of Repelita IV, and, ultimately, to 37, i.e., at least
one per province. To this end, improved curricula and courses are being
developed centrally and a corps of full-time trainers, themselves trained in
adult learning and public health, will be recruited to guide and supervise
these centers.
Issues and Constraints
34.       The paramedical manpower development strategy outlined in para. 33
above, is reasonable and well-justified in terms of immediate needs during
Repelita IV. It nevertheless raises several issues and questions that will
need to be addressed during this period. First among these is the feasibility
in terms of financial resources available of the further growth in manpower
envisaged during Repelitas V and VI (1989-99). Given the country's overall
resource constraints, the impact of measures such as integrating village-level
primary health care services on the efficiency and effectiveness of health
manpower, and the potential role of the private sector, a mid-term review of
the long-term manpower targets should be undertaken. Second, and a related
question, the economic benefits and technical advantages of a transition
towards multi-stream training institutions needs to be considered systema-
tically, taking into account the constraints of Indonesia's size, diversity,
and the relative immobility of its population. Third, with the expansion of
auxiliary health workers, their future role and career development prospects
in the public health system will require careful consideration and the
development of a policy and plans for their longer-term utilization and
appropriate in-service training. Finally, and of more immediate concern, is
the question of parallel classes. While parallel classes are acknowledged to
be a necessary and temporary expedient aimed at increasing the output of
paramedicals, particularly nurses, during the next five years, and their
introduction may well encourage increased efficiency in the use of training



- 15 -
resources, there is a need to evaluate their impact on both efficiency and
training quality during Repelita IV. The proposed project would help the
Government deal with these issues (see para. 42 below).
Bank Group Role and Assistance Strategy
35.       Bank Group assistance for population, health and nutrition in
Indonesia began in 1972 with a US$13.2 million credit for a Firsc Population
Project (300-IND). Since then. two loans totalling US$59.5 million have been
made for the Second and Third Population Projects (1472- and 1869-IND) and a
proposed US$46 million Loan for the Fourth Population Project is planned for
presentation to the Executive Directors on May 7, 1985. The principaL
objective of all four population projects was to develop the institutionaL
capability needed for planning, coordinating and implementing Indonesia's
population and family planning program and to extend its coverage throughout
the country. The first and second population rrojects were completed in 1981
and early 1984, respectively, and the third was completed on schedule in March
1985. A draft Project Performance Audit report has been prepared for the first
population project, and has stressed the importance of a clear understanding
of the priorities, interests, and plans of other external agencies involved in
the financing of the sector. Commencing in 1977, the Bank's involvement was
extended to include support for health and nutrition activities. A US$13 mil-
lion loan for nutrition (1373-IND) and health components totalling about
US$39 million, included in larger agriculture rural development and urban
projects as well as the population and nutrition projects, were approved
during the late 1970s. In 1983, a first health loan totalling US$27 million
(2235-IND) was approved, the main objective of which is to increase the
effectiveness and efficiency of the public health service delivery system in
three provinces of Sulawesi.
36.       The above broad-based portfolio of population, health and nutrition
financial and technical assistance activities reflect the priorities and
evolution of government policies, programs and institutions in these areas
during the last decade. During Repelita IV, the Government plans to emphasize
an integrated approach to population, health and nutrition sector issues and
development, and the Bank's role, assistance strategy and a pipeline of pro-
posed projects, are designed to support and reinforce this approach. The
Health (Manpower Development) Project described in this report is one of three
operations currently being processed, which together constitute a coordinated
package of Bank assistance to Indonesia's population, health and nutrition
sectors and institutions, the Ministry of Population and Environment (MOPE),
the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) and the MOB. The
Fourth Population Project addresses the institutional and program development
needs of the NFPCB itself, and also of the MOPE. The Health (Manpower
Development) Project deals with the need for more and better trained nurses
and paramedicals to improve staffing and hence, the quality of services, at
rural health facilities, provide clinical support for family planning efforts,
and technically supervise community-level health and nutrition programs. A
proposed Second Nutrition and Community Health Project, appraised in March
1985, will in part address the Governm,nt's policy of. integrating, or seeking
to better coordinate, village-level primary health care programs (including
family planning and nutrition services). This sequence of projects and the



- 16 -
linkages between them support the integrated view of population, health and
nutrition sector issues reflected in Repelita IV.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       Following completion of the MOH's long-term health manpower develop-
ment plan in eari.y 1983, project preparation was initiated during the last
quarter of 1983. Its size and composition emerged from a joint discussion
between the Bank, the MOH and the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), on the priorities for Repelita IV, and from consideration of the
financial and technical assistance already available, or planned by, other
external aid agencies, mainly ADB, Japan, USAID, WHO and the United Nations
Children's Fund. A preparation mission visited Indonesia in March/April 1984
and a Bank-financed consultant assisted in further preparation in July 1984.
The project was appraised in October/November 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 1-3, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by
Mr. H. Soekaryo, Secretary General, MOH. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5442-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are as follows:
(a) to help expand the output and improve the quality of MOB paramedical
manpower through (i) strengthening the Center for Education of
Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) by local and overseas training and
technical assistance; (ii) providing new and/or improved physical
facilities for 32 schools and academies in 18 provinces; and
(iii) carrying out three studies required to further develop
manpower development policies for Repelita V and beyond; and
(b) to help expand the capacity for and improve the quality of MOH's in-
service education and training through (i) strengthening the Center
for Education Training of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT) by local and
overseas training and technical assistance; and (ii) providing new
and/or improved physical facilities for eight in-service training
centers.



- 17 -
Project Description
PART A: Pre-Service Paramedical Health Manpower Development
Institutional Strengthening (US$4.0 million) 71
39.       If the Covernment's plans for improving and expanding the public
pre-service health manpower development system are to be successfully imple-
mented, it is vital that the managerial and technical supervisory and advisory
capacity of the central and provincial institutions, which share responsibi-
lity for the system, be strengthened. These institutions (both existing and
planned) are: Ca) PUSDIKNAKES, which has overall responsibility for managing,
supervising and providing technical support and guidance to the MOH's pre-
service paramedical manpower training system at the central level; (b) the
first five provincial education and training divisions which are to be
responsible for health manpower development in their respective provinces; and
(c) selected centers, namely 10 selected schools/academies whose teaching
quality and administration is to be strengthened to the point where these
institutions could support the technical and institutional development needs
of other schools/academies of the same sub-discipline. This component of the
project includes funds for a total of 873 man-months of fellowships and 156
man-months of technical services, as follows: (i) for PUSDIKNAKES staff devel-
opment and institutional strengthening: 6 long-term (108 man-months) and 29
short-term (87 man-months) fellowships and technical assistance services (192
man-months) in the areas of organizational development and management, evalua-
tion, information systems, curriculum development and technical supervision;
and operating costs for group educational activities (seminars and workshops);
(ii) for staff development in the 5 provincial education and training divi-
sions: 10 short-term (30 man-months) fellowships (2 per province) in manage-
ment, planning and supervision, and operating costs for group educational
activities (seminars and workshops); and tiii) for staff development in the 10
selected schools/academies: 36 long-term fellowships (648 man-months) in tech-
nical subject areas; and operating costs for workshops and seminars. In con-
nection with the inputs provided for the provincial divisions and the 10
selected centers, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MOH
would establish by March 31, 1986, provincial education and training divisions
in East, West and Central Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi; and desig-
nate by December 31, 1985, the 10 schools/academies to be strengthened.
(Schedule 5, paras. 1 and 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Paramedical Training Institutions (US$36.2 million)
40.       Taking into account the MOH's plans to establish 48 new schools/aca-
demies and rehabilitate 42 existing schools/academies (para. 33), the project
would provide funds for physical development (civil works, equipment, furni-
ture, vehicles, books and teaching materials) for 21 schools (6 new and 15
existing) and 11 academies (7 new and 4 existing), of which 4 academies would
be single stream and 7 would be multi-stream (i.e., grouped in 2 or 3
7/   The project costs listed in paragraphs 39 to 45 are net of contingencies.



- 18 -
technical subject streams on the same site and sharing common dormitory,
dining, library and auditorium space). The total of 32 project institutions
would be located in 18 provinces: 14 in the 5 provinces of Java; 12 in 8
provinces of Sumatra and Sulawesi; 1 in the province of Bali; and the
remaining 5 in 4 eastern provinces. All 7 multi-stream academies would be
located in urban areas in Java, West Sumatra, and South Sulawesi, where, Eor
reasons of cost, size, and technical need, the feasibility of multi-streaming
appears most promising. Finally, of the total 32 project institutions, 10
would be nursing schools or academies (excluding 4 nursing streams in 4 of the
multi-stream academies) and the rest schools or academies for assistant
pharmacists, medical analysts, laboratory assistants, sanitarians/health
inspectors, and dental assistants.
41.       In connection with the support provided for multi-stream academies
which, as indicated earlier (para. 33), is a new development for Indonesia's
health sector, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MOH
would: (a) develop a common core curriculum and teaching programs for the
different "streams" in multi-stream academies; (b) introduce the core curricu-
lum and programs in the 7 multi-stream academies included in the project; and
(c) based on this experience, establish a policy for future multi-stream
paramedical manpower education and training not later than April 1, 1988
(Schedule 5, para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, given the
lack to date of consistent MOH design standards for schools and academies,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the MOH would establish
systematic, cost-effective space allocation and design standards not later
than June 30, 1986 (Schedule 5, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Studies (US$0.2 million)
42.       In addition to the two project-related actions noted in the
preceding paragraph, there are three other sub-sectoral questions or issues
which, as discussed in para. 34 above, the MOH needs to address during
Repelita IV. These are: (a) the financial feasibility (capital and recurrent
costs) of the long-term health manpower development plan's targets for the
year 2000; (b) the functions, status and future role and career development
prospects of auxiliary health workers; and (c) the impact on both efficiency
and training quality of parallel classes. During appraisal, the MOH requested
that technical assistance be included in the project to help it undertake the
necessary studies, all three of which may have significant implications for
the preparation of Repelita V. A.cordingly, the proposed loan includes a
small allocation for short-term local and/or foreign consultancies that may be
needed for these three studies. Terms of reference for each of the studies
were discussed at negotiations and assurances obtained that the financial
feasibility study, (a) above would be completed not later than June 30, 1986,
and the other two studies, (b) and (c) above, would be completed not later
than December 31, 1986, and that agreed plans and policies would be
established by April 1, 1988 (Schedule 5, paras. 6, 7 and 8 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 19 -
PART B: In-Service Health Personnel Development
Institutional Strengthening (US$2.L miLlion)
43.       The newly-organized PUSDIKLAT is responsible for coordinating, and
in some instances directly conducting, short in-service trainin6 courses of
all kinds for the entire public health system. PUSDIKLAT also trains the
trainers for its own centers and for pre-employment and other in-service
training courses conducted by the Eour Directorates-General within MOH.
Moreover, with effect from Repelita IV, PUSDIKLAT will be responsible for
conducting obligatory public administration and management training for MOH
echelon III and IV personnel, hitherto carried out directly by the National
Institute of Public Administration (LAN). In the circumstances, one of
PUSDIKLAT's main operational priorities during Repelita IV is to further
strengthen the number and quality of trainers, at the national, regional and
provincial level. At present, PUSDIKLAT's physical and human resources to
provide training for trainers and management training for senior MOH staff and
other special courses, are extremeLy limited and long-term investments are
urgently needed in both areas.
44.       In order to strengthen PUSDIKLAT and its existing and proposed in-
service training centers, the project provides (a) for PUSDIKLAT staff: 10
Long-term fellowships (8 masters level in management and planning and 2
doctoral level, one each in research and development, and evaluation) and 11
short-term fellowships (4 in administration/management and 7 in educational
technology or related subject areas), supported by 48 man-months of technical
services in organizational development; and (b) for in-service training
centers: Ci) field-based training in community health program development for
84 selected national, regional and provincial trainers, and training in
community health program management for 16 of these trainers; (ii) 20 masters-
level felLowships in public health education; and (iii) 18 man-months of
technical assistance services to assist in (b)(i) and (ii) above. In summary,
this component of the project would support the provision of 41 fellowships
(636 man-months); 3 technical assistance consultancies (66 man-months); and
operating costs for in-country training.
In-Service Training Centers (US$10.8 million)
45.       As noted earlier (para. 33), PUSDIKLAT's existing training centers
are inadequate not only for present purposes but also for the much larger
training load that is proposed during Repelita IV and beyond. Accordingly, as
part of its infrastructure development plans during Repelita IV, the four
existing national centers in Jakarta, Ciloto, Lamah Abang and Salaman (Java)
would be rehabilitated and expanded to accommodate up to 150 trainees and 10
full-time faculty members; 1 of the 2 existing regional centers, at Murnajati
(Java), would be rehabilitated and expanded to accommodate up to 120 trainees
and 8 full-time facuLty members, and a third new regional center would be
constructed at Palembang (South Sumatra) with the same capacity; and 2 new
provincial centers would be constructed at Denpasar (Bali) and Banda Aceh
(Aceh) to accommodate up to 80 trainees and 6 full-time faculty members. This
expansion of existing capacity and additional facilities, together with 4
provincial centers included in a proposed ADB-assisted health and population



- 20 -
project in South and West Kalimantan, Lampung and East Nusa Tenggara, would
more than double the training capacity now available to PUSDIKLAT in the
provinces/regions of highest priority. Thus, the project would provide funds
for the physical development (civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles,
books and teaching materials) of the eight institutions noted above (four
national, two regional, and two provincial).
Project Management and Implementation
46.       Management.  The project would be directed by the Secretary General,
MOH, assisted by the Chiefs of the two MOH Centers concerned with pre-service
and in-service paramedical training, PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIKLAT (para. 30), as
Project Officers. An inter-ministerial project advisory board, which would
meet at least quarterly to review overall project progress, approve plans and
budgets for all project components and resolve any issues affecting project
goals and implementation. The main responsibility for day-to-day project
management and implementation would rest with the two Center Chiefs or Project
Officers, who wouLd be responsible for coordinating the parts of the project
within their jurisdiction, including the procurement of civil works, equip-
ment, administration of technical assistance and training, project finances
(including counterpart funding and loan disbursements) and overall project
progress reports. At the central Level, the two Project Officers would be
assisted by a team of full and part-time staff of their own Centers, supple-
mented by full-time technical staff on deputation from other divisions of the
MOH. This team would be responsibLe for coordinating the preparation of
master plans by local architecturaL consultants and the procurement of fur-
niture and equipment. It would also consolidate project progress reports and
monitor and supervise provincial-level activities, the preparation of annual
work programs and budgets, the procurement of goods, and the processing of
loan withdrawal applications.  At the provincial level, the MOH Provincial
Health Officer would formally be the Project Officer suppr.rted by a full-time
project implementation officer who would be provided with suppport staff for
local procurement, preparation of work programs and budgets, and project
monitoring and supervision.  During negotiations the Government confirmed that
central- and provincial-level project implementation officers have been
appointed.
47.       Implementation.  Project civil works consists of 7 multi-stream
paramedical academies, 25 paramedical schools and academies, and 4 national,
2 regional, and 2 provincial in-service training centers. Standard designs
would be prepared by local architectural consultants at the central level,
according to space and design standards which have been agreed for the first
batch of project facilities during appraisal by the Bank. Consultants in each
province would adapt these standard designs to individual sites and local
planning conditions. The provincial Project Officers would be responsible for
initiating construction in accordance with normal government procedures.
Sites have already been acquired or are available for the 25 project institu-
tions to be constructed or rehabilitated during the first year (1985/86) of
implementation. Moreover, site surveys, standardized designs and draft tender
documents are currently being prepared under funds made available from the
Fifth Technical Assistance Credit (898-IND). Completion of these site sur-
veys, designs and draft tender documents would be a condition of effectiveness



- 21 -
of the proposed loan (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, assurances were obtained during negotiations that sites for 8 facil-
ities to be constructed commencing 1986/87 would be acquired not later than
April 1, 1986, and for the remaining 7 facilities, to be constructed commenc-
ing 1987/88, by April 1. 1987 (Schedule 5, para. 9 of the draft Loan
Agreement). P-ocurement of equipment and vehicles would be managed centrally
by the central project teams concerned and furniture by the provincial author-
ities concerned. Overseas fellowships are expected to be administered by the
MOH centrally, with the assistance of WHO as executing agency. The completion
of satisfactory arrangements with an appropriate intermediary acceptable to
the Bank, for the administration and management of overseas fellowships would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The project would be implemented over a four-year period.  The
project is thus expected to be completed by March 31, 1989.
Project Costs and Financing
49.       The estimated totaL cost of the project is US$65.9 million equiva-
lent, net of duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$22.9 million, or 35% of the total. The project's base costs amounting to
US$53.3 million refer to early 1985 prices. Physical contingencies amount to
US$4.7 million and price contingencies to US$7.9 million, accounting for 9Z
and 151 of total base costs, respectively. Price contingencies for foreign
costs were estimated at 5X in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, and 8% in 19B7-89, and for
local costs at 8% in 1985-89. Construction costs are the product of agreed
space standards and unit prices provided by the Government for the various
types of buildings required. Equipment and furniture costs are based on
standard lists provided by the government authorities concerned. Equipment
and teaching materials imported under the project would be exempt from duties
and taxes; such duties or taxes on building materials are negligible and have
not been identified separately in project costs. Technical assistance costs
for consultants include salaries and, where appropriate for foreign consult-
ants, allowances and airfares. Costs for fellowships include tuition,
stipends, books, study travel allowances and international travel.
50.       The proposed Bank loan of US$39 million would finance 60% of total
project costs (less the cost of vehicles of US$1.2 million, including
contingencies, purchased under reserved procurement). The loan would cover
US$21.9 million in foreign exchange cost (the total, except for the foreign
exchange component of the cost of vehicles (US$1.0 million) to be provided by
the GOI), and US$17.1 million, or 40% of local costs. The balance of
US$26.9 million equivalent would be made available by the Government through
its annual development budget.



- 22 -
Procurement
51.       Project procurement arrangements are summarized below.
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(in uss million)
Not       Total cost
Applic-   including
Project Element             ICB       LCB       Other/a   able      contingencies
Land                          -          -        2.2       -            2.2
Civil Works                   -       44.4         -        -           44.4
(-)     (26.8)      (-)       (-)        (26.8)
Furniture, equipment,        5.5        5.4       1.7       -           12.6
vehicles and materials   (5.5)       ()         (.)      (-)          (5.5)
Technical assistance          -          -        5.5       -            5.5
and fellowships            (-)        (-)      (5.5)     (-)          (5.5)
Studies                       -         -         0.2       -            0.2
C-)       (-)      (0.2)      (-)         (0.2)
Group educational             -          -        1.0       -            1.0
activities                 ()-)                (1.0)     ()(1.0)
Totals                 5.5      49.8       10.6       -           65.9
(5.5)    (26.8)     (6.7)      ()(39.0)
/a Other means of procurement include reserved procurement of vehicles,
prudent shopping for basic equipment and teaching materials, procurement
of consultancies and fellowships, and group educational activities.
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to loan allocations.
52.       Individual contracts for the construction of the 32 schools and
academies and 8 in-service training centers totalling US$44.4 million (base
cost plus contingencies) would be too small (averaging US$1.1 million
equivalent each) and geographically dispersed (in 18 different provinces) to
attract foreign bidders and would therefore be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. About
US$5.4 million equivalent, or about one half of total equipment and furniture
required for the project, consists of basic furniture, office equipment, and
teaching supplies that are manufactured locally at competitive prices in
Indonesia. These items would be procured following LCB procedures (i.e.,



- 23 -
bidding would be open to both local suppliers and interested foreign suppliers
represented in Indonesia). Specialized equipment and teaching materials,
valued at about US$5.5 million equivalent, would be grouped to the extent
practicable and bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local suppliers .uld be
eligible to bid and, in the evaluation of bids, wouLd be eligible for a margin
of preference equal to 15% of the cif costs of competing imports, or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.  Equipment items which cannot be
grouped into bid packages of US$100,000 or more and miscellaneou.~ items in
packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, and subject to an aggregate total
of US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured through prudent shopping after
obtaining at least three price quotations. The US$500,000 Limic was
established on the basis of experience with previous Bank loans in
Indonesia. As the Covernment requires the purchase of locally-assembled
vehicles, these items (US$1.2 million) wouLd be regarded as reserved
procurement. Selection of technical assistance consultants wouLd be carried
out in accordance with Bank guidelines. As noted in para. 47 above, for
overseas training, the MOH is expected to request the WHO office in Jakarta to
assist as executing agency for selection and placement of candidates for all
overseas fellowships.
Disbursements
53.       The proposed loan of US$39 million equivalent wouLd be disbursed as
follows: (a) 60% of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% for foreign
expenditures, 90% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 652 of local
expenditures for other items procured locally, for specialized equipment and
materials; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for consultants' services, local
and overseas training and studies. To the extent practicable, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in an amount of US$100,000 equivalent or more
prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of loan proceeds.
Disbursements for local training and for civil works (including professional
fees) would be against statements of expenditure based upon agreed unit costs
and verified by the project executing agencies. Supporting documentation
would be retained by these agencies and made available for review as requested
by Bank supervision missions. About half the project loan is expected to be
disbursed during the first two years of project implementation. While this is
more optimistic than the available standard disbursement profile it is warran-
ted by:  (a) the advanced stage of preparation of the civil works component
(standardized designs and draft tender documents for 25 of the 40 project
facilities will be completed before loan effectiveness - para. 47); and
(b) the relatively longer experience in Indonesia with Bank projects in the
population, health and nutrition sectors (para. 35) and consequent familiarity
with Bank procedures.
Accounts and Audit
54.       The two project executing agencies (PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIKLAT) would
establish and maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures, in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and annual audit



- 24 -
reports would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year (Section 4.01 of t*he draft Loan Agreement). Six
month. after the closing date, the project director would submit a project
completion report to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the Covernment would comply with these accounting, auditing and reporting
requirements.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       Benefits.  The principal direct benefits of the project would be
broadly threefold. First, the quality of education and training conducted in
32 (19 existing and 13 new) paramedical academies and schools, about 35Z of
the ffOH's paramedical manpower training infrastructure in 1988/89, would be
significantly enhanced through the provision of new and/or improved physical
facilities, including appropriate equipment, teaching materials and vehicles
for field practice. Second, the provision of the new and/or improved physical
facilities for 8 MOH in-service training centers would expand the capacity and
improve the quality of its in-service education and training system, which is
still at an early stage of development. Third, the managerial, supervisory
and technical support capability of the MOH's two new national centers,
responsible for pre-service and in-service training (PUSDIKNAKES and PUSDIKLAT,
respectively) would be strengthened through a combination of local and over-
seas training and technical assistance. In addition to these direct quantita-
tive, qualitative and institution-building benefits, the various studies to be
undertaken under the project would assist the MOH, and indirectly BAPPENAS, to
plan future paramedical manpower development, specifically for Repelita V, in
a more effective and efficient manner.
56.       Risks.  The project would be the third in the MOH but only the first
to be undertaken by the two new executing agencies concerned (i.e. PUSDIKNAKES
and PUSDIKLAT). There is therefore a prima facie risk of delay in implemen-
tation. However, as far as the physical infrastructure elements are con-
cerned, sites have been acquired or are already available for over half the
project institutions, and master plans and draft tender documents are cur-
rently being prepared for the 25 project institutions to be developed du.ing
the first year (1985/86). Second, the technical assistance inputs for organ-
izational development, and indirectly project management, would help overcome
potential problems arising from the executing agencies' relative inexperience
in executing an externally-aided project of this magnitude. Third, an initial
project implementation or "launch" workshop is planned in mid-1985, and during
the first year or SD of implementation, an above-average project supervision
effort is anticipated. In the circumstances, the degree of risk is
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the
completion of site surveys, standardized designs and draft tender documents



- 25 -
for the project institutions to be constructed and/or rehabilitated during the
first year (1985/86) of project implementation; and (b) the completion of
satisfactory arrangements for the administration and management of overseas
fellowships through an appropriate intermediary (para. 47). Other special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement oE the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 17, 1985
Washington, D.C.



AN011 I
- 26 -                                     page 1 of 5 page.
ma           o.        auk                   E?  CU?               IIN    _
Dt t"OW D7,Mu2) j"
, tGb       imLb. uM       L        Alxi II untc            Lk. MM           6 co
ARMA (TUDSI    SQ. U)
TOTL                                1919.2      11.3   1919.3
AOI.ICULTUIUL                        296D.       307.1     17.3
mu capita (U9)             ~~~~~90.0  ISM.       360.0            1091.2                    21011.6
(uu=AK r Or 0IL EQUIVALT)             66.0        96.0    191.0              567.3                     995. 5
pw110      WmL STATISUC1
POUL.ATIO.,N1b-IIAR (2900A50)    94650.0    116201.0  15356.0
UlN POPULATION Ex OF TOTAL)           14.G        11.1      12.3              34.7                      66.5
POPULATION PROJCICONI
IPOPUATION IN         20 (I.)                             12.0
STATIOHAY POPULATION (MILL)                              370.1
POPMATION NmnTUM                                           1.9
POPULAION DENSITT
PER SQ. gt.                         49.3        60.5      77.9              261.9                     35.7
PER sq. En. hUa. LAND              319.3       375.4    471.0              1735.1                     9z.#
POPUATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                           40.7        64.0      39.5              39.0                      39.9
15-64 2RS                           36.2        53.4      57.3              57.6                      56.0
65 AND AOIE                          31          2.5       3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPMLATION GRO6JI RATE (C)
TOTAL                                2.1         Z.0       2.3                2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                3.7         3.6       4.5                4.3                      3.6
CRWDE BIRTH RATE (PER TRO0S)          44.2        41.0      33.6               30.1                     31.3
CUIIZ OE5TH PATE (PFI TOUS)           22.9        17.6      13.0                9.5                      8.1
G*OSS REPRODCTON RATE                  2.7         2.7       2.2                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNG
ACCEPTORS. AUAL (TO)                  ..       11.1   301.O0
USERS (S OF MARIED   W)                  *                53-.0 /c          52.7                      40.3
MM AND NITU
INDEX OF FWOD PRO. MEt CIPIZA
(1969-71-100)                         93.0       102.0    117.0              123.0                     114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REUIRENTS)           86.0        96.0    110.0               114.4                    110.6
PROTEINS (GRMS pa DAT)              36.0        44.0      49.0              57.0                      67.3
OF UHICH ANIAL AND PULSE           6.0         6.0       7.0 Id            14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AES 1-4) DEATE RHTE            22.9        16.9      13.0               7.2                       5.7
LIFE EXPECT. Ar BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2        47.0      53.3               60.4                     64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER T  U)         149.9       120.9    102.0               66.3                      6D.b
ACCESS TO SAME ATER (IPOP)
TOTAL                                  -         3.0      23.0              37.0                      65.4
URAN                                   .        10.0      41.0               54.5                     78.1
RURAL                                            1.0    1l.0                26.4                      46.2
ACCESS TD ECCREIA, DISPOSAL
(S OF POPUATI08)
TOTAL                                 ..        15.0      23.0               41.3                     52.9
URBAJI                                ..        19.0      20.0              47.4                      67.0
RRAL                                  ..        14.0      24.0               33.3                     24.5
POPUIATION PER PITSU1CAN           46760.0    26510.0  11530.0 /c           7749.4                    1917.7
POP. PER NORSING PERSON             4510.0 /1   7680.0   2300.0 7           2460.4                     U15.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1360.0      1650.0   1720.0 /a           1044.2                    367.2
URBUA                              250.0          ..    700.Os             651.2                     411.5
RURAL                                 *                 3160.0             2594.6                   2636.3
ADMItSSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED                                2 .-  2.4 /h      27.0                      27.3
AVEACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4         4.6
UtzN                                 4.9         5.3
RURAL                                4.3         4.7
AVERACE NO. OF PERS JNOaI
TOTAL                                  -         1.5
UAN                                   ..         1.6
RURAL                                            1.5.5
ACC5 TO ELZCT. (Z OF VULJLIS)
.OTAL                                 ..          ..
UR7AN                                 ..          ..
ROML                                  ' '  



- 27 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDOINUIA              - SOCA  INDICATORS DATA SHT
INDONESIA                            RFENCE GROUPS (WEIGTD  AVERAGES) la
MDST                     (MS IRON! STIMATE) 1b
jtZcun           Kxzuu  tucan            MIDDLE IacesX
1960/b!    197Lb_ ZESt&NAr/b        ASIA & PACIFIC         LA?. SRIC4 A  CAR
ADJUSTED EROLINT RATIOS
PRlIARY:  TOTAL                     71.0        77.0    100.0              102.0                     105.4
KuLE                     66.0        83.0    L06.0               105.9                    106.3
FDEALE                   58.0        71.0      94.0              98.2                     104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     6.0        15.0      30.0              46.0                      43.2
MALE                     10.0        20.0      36.0               48.7                     42.3
FEMALE                    3.0        10.0      24.0              43.1                      44.5
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDR)             20.4        22.1.     13.4              17.5                      33.6
PUPIL-TEAQIER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        29.0      32.0              31.8                      30.1
SECONDARY                           14.0        13.0      16.0              23.5                      16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)               39.0        56.6     62.0               72.9                      79.5
PASSENGER CARSI/TOUSAND POP            1.1         2.1       4.4              10.1                      46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TWUUSAND POP           7.2        21.9     42.4              113.6                     225-6
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP              0.1         0.0       9.6              50.1                     107.2
NEWSPAPER C DAILY GENERAL
lNTERESTr) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSANID POPULATION            11.0          ..      17.7a             3 3.9                     63.5
CINE  A AL ATTEND         ITA          2.8           .      O.                 3.4                       2.8
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          34791.0    41090.0  54689.0
FEIALE (PERCENT)                    27.8        30.9     29.1               33.5                      23.2
AGICULTUIRE (PERCNT)                75.0        66.0      58.D              52.2                      31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.0        10.0      12.0              17.9                      23.9
PARTIClPATION RATE (PERCENT)                      3
TOTAL                               36.7        35.4      35.8              38.7                      32.2
MALE                                54.2        49.5      51.1              50.9                      49.3
FEMALE                              20.0        21.6      20.7              26.6                      15.2
ECDNOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3      1.Z                1.1                       1.4
a  DInsa
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCoSE
RECEIVED BY
uxausr 5X OF N uOlTEtLDS              ..          ..      23.5              22.2
HICGEST 2O OF HOUSEbOLDS             ..          ..     49.4               48.0
LOWEST 20z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..       6.6 jj            6.4
LOWEST 4.0 OF HOUSEIIOLDS             ..          ..      14.6 jj           15.5
PVT TAR     moOM
ESTIAMTED ABoLuTE POVERTY rNCOIE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                          124.0 /1  124.0 /1          188.6                     288.2
RURAL                                 ..       106.0 7T  106.0 7T          152.0                     184.0
ESTIrATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..    119.0 /I           177.9                     522.8
v                       RURAL                                  ..         ..      98.07!            164.6                    372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELCW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                 ..        51.0 A1  26.0 /1            23.4
RURAL                                           sq 59.07T    4.07!          37.7
. NO AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
t; O T E S
Ia  The group averages for each indicator are population-wighted arithc tic means. Coverage of countrIes  aoang the
indicatare depends - availability of data and 1. not unifore.
lb  Unieoe acheravs noted, -Daca for 1960- refer to any "er between 1959 sad 1961; Date for 1970- betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for -Itoc Recent Eatiatoe" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1983; /d 1977; /1 1979; If 1962; LL 1976; lb 1975; /I 1980 prices.
JUNE, 984



'3333333  z13
3-.*.~  33  3  433-3'-333433-  q  3*)                    3-
333*.3    53  333   3i-33 -733'3 39 -.1-3  
V.973  33      I3  3133'. s                  3 3    *341          3s_
-.  53-333033537433 3"a3 lull3 -ml3 3333 3S.1
.3333334331333   3-~:  3.333. -3333-  337~3333333
333133334 3332 03(313 9'   3A37                      ota '3e,',.                                  333         Dial 13- l   3 -n.-33 i-JJ-  3335   3333     3-aI-
R. W"  3 7= z ~     ~       ~      ~      ~     ~    '3933333 3333333437  .33--'~ 0933
.1 --too- P-m-   1-1-     -1- tLe'll,  AIVIl%.33393  3)33Al                            33     " -33973 P3   - 333*3   3    3433333333
11  W "=                                             P-           -'I3                    *339 43 ~33"a   '3333  333MM
31  -          711137-    3   -333.333333I33.5533333      34.333333   53P33   334 - AL                                                                 V-3333 -
33333 - (33313333 33333 3-3533 3.33333 33333333 .3)3 .3333113333-J -f9.- 3133                                                              3±13 3
'3333 3-51 33-3331  43 4333 3353'33   1 3333)33(-33P  3333                                                          7 73333 
33334 34 335  3333933333  333*'433  43  3  -53  3-333              '33  3333  3133'on   3.3q.  533-J3-3393311.1333r
33731  33  53433  3 3)7  3  333  33433335333373  7534333333591-33   732                            33-3  3333333  '333   in: III)  0
- 3313  3333313 -7.3333  333  333 333    334313334 3333734 93-333  33  3 3  334  4333933-33-GI9.33373  333P*33J 33-I            333 ...3...3I
'3733933353                                                                             '3339V-   .T     p-A.J:
-  53333-3333333-5333  7333333333339 3333393  i333)33)33*s33 333 3303'442331 339.J' -330333-33333,,,                       733A.  33I   P3)33
7333333 34733333   33  333 373333 33 113333  333339                533- 67.33 333334 33133933 33333  3JP  *353--I             333  33333 33
- 333  93  344    133     33033335~333333333  33733  33-)33'339033 93353  '3333  73335  33  9'3  933
-'333d33m      V  3331333   I... 93355333  34333                                  4  '3333   3           '3334   3  3333  333334333
*  343   39333   (9373-33Z.333,:33-3   *Ia tfi_fi4.                                        *         _13 333   I        M33373 13-3.1   - -3.33 30-  J. P3_35.-I3333.
I V-3353                                                            '3909           333'431    73.   333-3
v- fall             AIWI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~33  39133333Nt*90'333*345373433933   3 
3-3 '13339-    4133333  333333   4                                    '103  33  33350   33333 1"3                              ia3  3333
33333033334 3334.333333   - 33)3735-      333 3. 3933323V3
'333033  33)3-33   33 33-33333  .33333  '33343333  3 3333  3   '3~.a.33-  3  933  3                133333
333333)3 -  3333AL P3   333 W.33333W                                                                                     .  "      Ig(o333333  3333 .33-331l333'333
'33335 33433 3333 33' 0333334 3. 313.5 3433 333333 -                            33333  3333 393 -"  3333-33333  3s333             - r
333 -. 3353-3-333333A  33!!n  3333.d   '3333 333 P_3I3333333
933-3331353333 '33353331353333333--v5 - 73933-.33lj I33   S3f- 1320 LI35                                  V3 371   53   333333-03333373
1P-Le Atee, Vao'll-'36333313Ws-  -W-333 v-                                       0       LI53-3      9333   33335            a       333133
II-a P    n-   V3 3-Al 3-   33333 3333*31133*63P-3 3                                43333   3333333333-3   - W3-3.337333-33   -333333
9333333'  33  5  '333 333333333353333 6333333 93333  333333333                                                                                          '73e3331= II.... -pi-a l
3333333*  3    333)39  '3 3  391333   3~    333993 3333333333- '3433  '0333 3 313333333333333355333.3 3333  31)3333
35353-  43    33   333333.333  -33333  3333  3313333333 3-333349.133333d              33e    f331  333V       93*a33334333333
'333593333-33- 34 33.3333333731   3533333  .-L33.333-                             37S.339   3            33339533            3133 - _           t
3133333333 93333733393333 333333   333334  .3* 33333 71333                                     '339 73333 'P.33  '3.33  3.3333335
33 333593317335 313333331 61 - (3333337  .333*3331534333 35   -31    *4433333- 9333333334433   93
- led-III LeV        33333313)3 934333-.3II.3333-3=                                                  '333  33333 F 3,-  '05333. 'ft3  3.33rn3I..I3
3393333 3333333333   -33333333-  33.33-4153m 313333  9333i                                                      7'0 P3      - ''.(II&3 '33319333      333
111-353                   ..333*35 .I--   33   373333   .33*13                               33   3.3  323339 33-3  - 334 -   3)..3C33 1333  -333    73373-
33 W3 33   1333   334337-333303337   33333393937'-3393'3-73   37333393333*33
F M   or`M           '5333  5333                          33333  333  7333-3'333- W33133333733333
3- '33335  '13.37333333333  3333333.Rai3-3--) 33335`133'333  333 53''1("'W3  '33333
'333 3  3335  '90   3337*4*4  J1)3a3339393*353                                            333303333   3  33333333)-Lol   vfir33'S3.3353 '3.'3333
333333  3*3'35ll  33333333333333  *33353)3f  W"3)333  3)3333))6)ll337333  3  3.3  333   33333l
'11-dPos.  ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~       333-33.s.-a amps33swaft3 I                         53Al,33333',35W3.33-4'.33''r333 
3423  33343'.d 3'elal.1333l33  33 933 .13343335 -3A33933333 933 33..33333pl,LAl   =                                                                        oe-t
Pa33    19t 333333.3333333333333  P.9333  933age  3333331 .33al3ow353-3333.333d
*tal W   3d-e3.V 333T     33-*3   33333393  333.- 33                                         3533'  -333   3333''333'n33   3 .                             4
.,-    33-3".3 3333333''  33   3'33313347'33333a'a4 .                                                           3-"'    ''.  "53"   533333333
3333337233  3313353  ' 23393s3'55 333333 3333.331l 73I313-3                    33  93333333333    531j-1   *. 3-33I3 343 33 33333- 3       333
P.    -    J.-IlIoAd  VIA.3303335333                                                  34.  3333  3433                             I.33333393343   3433333  33'3
33   3333333333333 33335-3'335   333333                                                   37   933333333   3333331333I.333   37   3333A -5
M35  353333   31 v33  534333  33le '333333   331 330     39*331.3   3  3-3-3333333w33333313   - SA3L 331333
~33.333       A33*.333" 33 a  aptAlpl .!'335343333'33  3353*3                                                       38333    33.335  33   4  3   333
33A3M9"33333,   ..  .  jal..  33333P33)  333 33333  -I   %33id-.    A    A3 33                  933* 342    k 333 3'333*4    34  3333333334  3-3533 ft      I 93 3733    -
'53=   33133-3 -333P393         p_33   p 5333337 333, 333333  -ll dq 3033           333   93333.3-333S.3ILA 3373333  33-lb3333                  M   J3 '33333 333 , 3-4  d
**135 .333-P3P 3333 l-            At. a3333l33333395w 3333333333333i       , "          3eteat.3 933ts  '.33331333  33~ 3333333  33  333f '333  3333. oi3 33 *33. 3-1L
p33933333-333933 l3"3)3 P33343     oo107 =     I.&.35549  333 33333,79-3 233 "33333% 3333333   d3331)83  '                I33345  3333 331 '33133333333933            l
935 . lomt3 emge3 44    WU3 ile3333   " A337  33333233"U3AM3-I II  3-'3'-3433 3333331               3333tat ft-  3337A'33333I937 I3 333-333 3334 etlel333              a
3133533331  3  -  33-3    ~ ~~~~~~.Wa                                          33.4)3. 3113-33.1133_  '9335.            3 3o ~  3333p.  9393343leg 3-333333333 ng
',333-5       -aealto 3-  3   '3l33       ...' 43r4*3ZK31 so 45t5-33tgoli                    3333335.3lglege r    -iisl..t="             A.337   33 33333  ' UT 'Vel"Uiifl
iomi~~l .4 34. A- do4l3 333  34j "..P    31 ..qRILL O                        '.3    33325333433 all"       3 S33333s35 3-la 3233333  533333333301 at
sogwd     S    j(-L     1-191-1UI I                                                   33  33133-3337-34  3  3333 433'33355*43333
I ]MM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~633 333 3333 333333 33333 33393333



ANNEX I
Population    :  155.8 dIllion (mid-1983)                      - 29 -                                          Y gs * of 5 Pages
CNP per Capita:  US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONIlIC INDICATORS
Amount
(millon US$ at                             Annual growth rate (Z) /b
current prices)                  Actusl                                 Pro3ected
Indicator                            1982          l9S0   1951   1982    lSi  1984/-  198o   1986.  1151   1955   1989   199U
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross donest=c product /c          78.344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    5.5    2.6    5.0    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                     20,651          5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896         12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    7.3    0.2    5.4    5.6    4.5    3.0    3.5
Services                         27.797       11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Conasuption                        62.731        12.4   15.8    3.0    2.0    5.6    1.3    3.4    4,3    4,3    4,3    4.1
Gross investment /d                18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -5.0   -2.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of GNFS                    19.508       -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.8    1.5    2.9    6.3    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.2
Imports of GNFS                    22.803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.1   -5.0    0.5    1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0    3.4
Gross national savings             12,273        33.2  -20.0  -15.9   22.2   16.7   -1.6   12.2    8.2    7.1    5.4    5.5
PRICES
'CM-deflator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    154    166    179    194    209    226
Exchange rate (Rp per USS)                        627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of CDP at nrket prices (S)
(at current prices)   ____1                _ Aver.Re annual increase (2) lb
___U   1910   1915   1 80   1,55 1990              U-/3 AiS             . 15-pU   1950-55   1985-9U
Gross domestic product           100    100    100    100    100    100           3.9       8.4        7.4       4.1        4.6
Agriculture                     54     47      32     25     26      25         2.7       4.1        3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                       14      18     34      43     38     37         5.2       12.0       9.8        2.8        4.4
Services                        32     35     35      32     36      38        4.8        9.7        9.5       5.6        5.5
GOnDauption                    91      89     79      71     76      74        4.1        8.4        9.2       5.6        4.0
Gross investment Id             8      14     20      21     20      22        4.8       18.3       12.2       4.5        5.4
Exports of GNFS                 13     13     23      31     25      25         3.6       9.2        2.9      -1.2        4.0
Imports of GNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -20           3.2       22.1       14.0       2.6        2.6
Gross national savings          a       9     17      26     20      22        6.1       23.1       14.2       0.5        7.7
As Z of GDP
19bU              1971                1195 1980                             1950
PUBLIC FINANCE /e
Current revenue                                11.7               10.1               17.4               22.5               20.1
Current expenditures                          14.0                8.4                 9.9               12.8               11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit t-)                    -2.3               +1.6               +7.5                +9.7               +8.3
Capital expenditure                            n.a.               5.0                11.3               13.0                7.4
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5                 3.7                3.3               -0.9
1960-70         1970-75           1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GRP growth rate (Z)                            4.5              7.6              7.1             3.8              4.8
Annual CNP per capita gra.th rate (Z)                 2.4              5.1              4.7             1.7              2.8
Annual energy consunption growth rate (2)             2.2             11.2             11.0             1.3              4.7
ICOR                                                  2.2              2.2              3.3             5.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate                                 0.30             0.48             0.28            0.03             0.35
Import elasticity                                     1.2              2.8              0.84            0.63             0.57
/a  Estimates.
719 At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
Tc- At market prices.
7Hr Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7T  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                               East Asia and Pacific Region
March 29, 1985



Population    a  155.8 zillion (mid-1963)                          - 30 -                                     ANU    I
RP per Capital  UB5560 (1983 estimte)                                                                        YljrThf S page
INDO9L8IA - UILANCX OP PATYLITI AND *XTYRMAL CAPITAL AND DUnT
(MaiLsonu  us$ It current pr?LeoS
Actual                                 Projseted
AUu      lye&     £155      115      1153Ly   La       1150      LIII     LI1
SBLAZCE OF PAMNTIB/b
22.885   22,994   18,672   19,816   199813  21.115   23,0U   26.331   36460
ill and LNG (grown)                   17,297   16,824   14.744   14.4U9   14,082  14,4B1   15.483   17 784   23.801
b   Nonoll                                 5,588    4,170    3,928    5,367    5.901   6.634    7,560    8,547   12,659
2.  Isports (including not NMS)               -17,589  -22.570  -22,339  -19,583  -18.186 -19,070  -20.752  -23 ,015  -31,705
(a)Oil sactor                              -4.050   -5,407   -4,802   -3.839   -3.532  -3,823   -4.216   -4,776   -6,593
(b)  Nonoil imports                       -11,837  -14.561  -15,824  -14,174  -13,225 -13,807  -14,990  -16,535  -22,499
(c)  NMS (not)                             -1,702   -2,602   -1,713   -1,570   -1,441  -1 440   -1,546   -1,704   -2,313
3.  Raeource balance                             5,296      424   .3,667       233   -1,795   2,045    2,291    3,316    4,755
4.  Factor mervices                             -3.165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,669   -4,620  -5,003   -5,395   -6,049   -7,487
(a)  Interest public debt                    -823      -994   -1,145   -1.256   -1,499  -1,734   -1958   - 2,211   -2,747
(b)  Other (net)                           -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,413   -3.121  -3,269   -3,437    3,838   -4,740
5.  Capital grants                                  76       67       105       95       100     110      120       125      150
6.  Balance on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,341   -2.725  -2,848   -2,984   -2,608   -2,582
7.  Direct foreign investuent                      140      142       311      193      250      250      275       300      375
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                           2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    4,189   5,238    5,521    5,649    7,0o0
(b)  Amortization                            -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -2,036  -2,461   -2,534   -3,176   -5,050
(c)  Net disbursements                      1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,153   2,777    2,987    2,473    1 951
9.  Other capital (net)                         -1,481      -31      455    2,547       611      -29      175        56      502
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)            -2,736       988    3,279   -2,069      -289    -150      -453     -221      -246
11.  Net official reserves                       -7,342    6,354    3,074    5,144    5,433   5,583    6,036    6,257.  6,902
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ MFS                                        6.5      4.4      2.1       3.9      4.5      4.4      4.4      4.1       3.3
1emorand,u  Item
Net toreigt assets of the banking
Byste n       t        e                     10,787   10,622    6,392    8,916    9,205   9,355    9,809   10,029   10,674
Total re-erves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                  9.6       7.4      4.4       6.8      7.5      7.4      7.1       6.6      5.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disburse ents                             2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965
Concessional Loans                               '-3[     '79T   --i    .
bilateral                                              MT m3             3W
IDA                                           42        69       78        60
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                           1 892    1a8g     3,503    4,357
bilateral                                      'W        r7u     '317   --.L11
IBRD                                           331       314      505       489
Other multiLateral                               52       85      126       160
Private-source                                1,421    1,310    2,356    3.219
External Debt
--heFt outstndlng and disbursed /e           14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686
Official-source                                                L=        I 05
Private-source                             5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649
Undisbursed debt                             9,481   11,387   12,870   12,975
Debt Service
--Total service paysents                        1.759    2,047    2,247    2,551
Interest                                     823       996    1,145    1,256
Payments as Z of exports/f                     7.7       8.9     12.0      12.9
|   Aversge Interest Rate on New Loans (Z)        8.1      8.7      9.2       8.8
Ott icial-source               -                5.4      7.8      8.8       8.7
Private-source                                 12.4      9.4      9.5       8.8
Aversge Maturity of New Loans (Years)            18.8     15.5      15.2     15.1
Oi-tlcial_ ource                               24.4     20.5     20.6      22.3
Private-source                                 9.8      11.1     11.1      10.3
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Haturities due within 5 years                                                                             40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                            70
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                           7.0
/a  Estimrtes.
7F  On an April-to-March Eiscal year basis.
7T9 Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7W  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7eW  At end of period.                                                                          East Asia and Pacific Region
Tr Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                  rrach 29, 1985



ANNEX rI
- 31 -                 Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) la
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,584.59   642.71          -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00       -         68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00       -         29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                     -       49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00       -        23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                       54.00       -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                  42.00       -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                                123.20       -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                               -       67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00       -        86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00       -        41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.50       -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -       12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           99.00       -        34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -       45.00      27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -       37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -       42.00      24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00       -        53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            42.00       -        29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00       -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -       30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00       -        86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               46.00       -        33.06
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00       -         37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                  250.00       -        21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00       -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00       -        24.13
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX I I
- 32 -              ~I
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (Less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            161.00       -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development          106.00       -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -         84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                  15.00       -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00       -         85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00       -         63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00       -         76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                               25.00       -         24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                          37.00       -         21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java             70.00       -         48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution              66.00       -         41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI            68.10       -         59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00       -         19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50       -          4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00       -        256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60       -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00       -         25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40       -         21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00       -         66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00       -         28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60       -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90       -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50       -         61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40       -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00       -        241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30       -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20       -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00       -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00       -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00       -        235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65       -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70       -        204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00       -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00       -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00       -         50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00       -         77.81
/a Not yet effective.



- 33                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loant                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30      -         11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development I1 /a         131.00       -       131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 34            ~           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                               Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor                business           --- (US$ million)  --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel       Tourism             9.8       1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles              2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics         0.9        -        0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4        -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                  Textiles            0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material         48.0      5.0       53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                         143.6     19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled             107.6      7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                                36.0     12.2       48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                    9.5



- 35 -                            ANNEX III
Page lof 2 pages
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:            9 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:          MOH
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:               January 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:       October 1984
Ce)  Date of completion of negotiation:            April 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Project implementation workshop is planned in mid-1985 (para. 56).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) establish by March 31, 1986 and thereafter maintain provincial-level
education and training units within its MOH provincial offices in
East, West and Central Java, and North Sumatra and South Sulawesi
(para. 39);
(b)  designate 10 paramedical schools/academies as selected centers not
later than December 31, 1985 (para. 39);
(c)  (i) develop multi-stream curricula for selected paramedical manpower
categories; (ii) introduce multi-stream classes and programs,
initially on a pilot basis, in the seven project multi-stream
academies; and (iii) based on this experience, establish a policy
for multi-stream paramedical manpower education and training not
later than April 1, 1988 (para. 41);
(d) establish systematic, cost-effective space allocation and design
standards for MOH paramedical academies, schools and in-service
training centers, not later than June 30, 1986 (para. 41);



- 36 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) assess the financial resources required and available to achieve the
long-term health manpower development plan's targets through the
year 2000, not later than June 30, 1986 (para. 42);
(f) (i) review the functions, status, and longer-term role of auxiliary
health workers, not later than December 31, 1986; and (ii) define a
plan or policy for their future career development prospects and
training during Repelita V, not later than ApriL 1, 1988 (para. 42);
(g) (i) evaluate the impact of parallel classes not later than
December 31, 1986; and (ii) taking into account the results of this
evaluation, define a plan or policy for their continuation or
otherwise by April 1, 1988, (para. 42); and
(h) acquire the sites for 8 facilities to be constructed commencing
1986/87 not lzter than April 1, 1986 and for the remaining 7
facilities, to be constructed commencing 1987/88, not later than
April 1, 1987 (para. 47).



