Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USiE ONLY
Rept No. 13745
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 2542-IND)
DECEMBER 2, 1994
Population and Human Resurces Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of November, 1993)
US$1.00           =  Rp 2,020
Rp 1 million      =  US$495
(at appraisal)
US$1.00           = Rp 1,100
RP 1 million      =  US$909
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                       =    Asian Development Bank
AKPER                     -    Nursing Academy
BAPPENAS                  =    National Economic Development Planning Agency
BAPPEDA                        Provincial Economic Development Planning Agency
BLKM                      =    Balai Latihan Kesehatan Masyarakat
DEPKES                    =    Ministry of Health (Departemen Kesehatan)
DIK                       -   Annual Routine Budget
DIP                       =    Annual Development Budget (Daftar Isian Proyek)
DUP                       =    Annual Development Projects (preliminary)
GOI                       =    Government of Indonesia
IBI                       =    Indonesian Midwives Association
ICB                       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDI                       =    Indonesian Medical Association
IEC                       =    Information Education and Communication
INPRES                    -    Instruksi Presiden
LCB                       =    Local Competitive Bidding
INSTALUED                 =    Public Works Unit
KLKM                      -   Kursus Latihan Kesehatan Masyarakat
LAN                       -    Institute of Public Administration
MCH                       -   Maternal and Child Health
MOH                       =   Ministry of Health
NGO                       -    Non-Governmental Organization
OED                       =    Operations Evaluation Department
PCR                       -    Project Completion Report
PEKARYA KESEHATAN   =    Nursing Assistant
PIMPRO                    -    Provincial Project Officer
PKMD                      =    Village Community Health Developmetn Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PO                        =    Operational Guidelines
POSYANDU                  -    Health and Family Planning Village Gathering
PPAR                       =    Project Performance Audit Report
PUSDIKLAT                  -    Center for Education of Health Manpower
PUSDIKNAKES                -    Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel
PUSKESMAS                 =    Health Center
REPELITA IV                -    Fourth National Five-year Development Plan
SKN                        -    National Health System
SPK                        -    Nursing School
TBA                        =    Traditional Birth Attendant
UNDP                      -    United Nations Development Program
USAID                     -    U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO                        -    World Health Organization
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinghon, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Genwal
Operations Evaluation
December 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Second Health (Manpower Development) Project MLoan 2542-INID
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia-Second Health
(Manpower Development) Project (Loan 2542-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
This project was designed to assist the Ministry of Health increase the number
and quality of health care providers by expanding and improving both pre-service and in-
service training. For this purpose the project provided funding for buildings, equipment,
studies and technical assistance.
Shortages of counterpart funds, among other things, resulted in substantial
delays in implementation and the project closed two years later than originally planned. The
project was restructured to reduce its size and to focus less on civil works and more on
training and institutional development. In the end two-thirds of the civil works in the original
project was satisfactorily completed and the impact on quantity and quality of training was
minimaL  The project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory and institutional
development as negligible. However, the modest benefits of this project are likely to be
sustained over time because of government commitment to fund health operations and
maintenance. Subsequent projects have abandoned this essentially supply-side approach to
training.
The Project Completion Report is of good quality. No audit is planned.
(1S
Attachment
This document has a reeoed diibuton and may be usd by recipent only In th pedrrmanoe of thRobcial
dutles. t oontnwt may not oewlwe be dieoceed wWto World Bank aufhorizaton.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 2542-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ........................................                                    i
Evaluation Summary  ................................                                ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IBRD PERSPECTIVE ...                      ....        1
Project Identity  ................................                            1
Background  ..................................                                 1
Project Objectives and Organization  ...................                      3
Project Design and Organization  .....................                        6
Project Implementation  ...........................                           9
Project  Results  ................................                           18
Sustainability  .................................                            22
Bank Performance  ..............................                             22
Borrower's Performance  ..........................                           23
Lessons Learned  ...............................                             24
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                26
PART III: PROJECT PROFILE AT COMPLETION   ....                     ........        29
Related Bank Loans  .............................                            29
Project Timetable ...............................                            31
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement ....             ........       31
Project Implementation  ...........................                          32
Project Costs and Financing  ........................                        35
Studies  .....................................                               37
Status of Covenants  .............................                           38
Use of Bank Resources ...........................                            39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   l






- j -
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 2542-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second (Manpower
Development) Health Project for which a loan of US$39 million to the Government
of the Republic of Indonesia (GOI) was approved on April 24, 1985. The loan became
effective in January 1986 with a closing date of September 1989. The loan was
restructured to redirect the emphasis from civil works to improving manpower quality
in May 1988 and again in October 1990, at which time US$700,000 was cancelled.
The project was closed in March, 1993, after four extensions. About 97 percent of
the amended loan amount was disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III of this PCR were
prepared by Susan Stout (EA3PH), Dr. E. Iswandi (RSI) and Ms. Karima Saleh
(Consultant). Part II was prepared by GOI. The PCR was prepared in accordance
with the Guidelines for Preparing PCRs, issued in June, 1989. The report is based on
data provided by GOI, a review of World Bank records, evaluation studies, and field
visits in Indonesia in 1992 and 1993.






- ii -
INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 2542-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i.        This project was appraised in late 1984. The project was prepared and
appraised as one of three investment loans designed to improve Indonesia's health and
population status. At the time, Indonesia's health status, while showing signs of
improvement, was less than satisfactory and inferior to that of comparable lower
income countries. Although life expectancy was improving, infant mortality and child
death rates were unacceptably high at about 102 and 13 per thousand live births
respectively. Fertility was showing significant declines, but there were clear needs to
further strengthen the provision of family planning and basic health services.
ii.       Government's response to these conditions centered on the establishment
of an extensive public health service delivery system focused on a network of health
centers, health subcenters and district level hospitals. A vigorous family planning
program, managed by the National Family Planning Coordination Board,
complemented this system, and made additional demands for the availability of
appropriately skilled health manpower at all levels of the health services network. The
Fourth Population Project (SAR No. 5454-IND, PCR No. 9309-IND) addressed the
institutional development needs of the national family planning program. The Second
Nutrition and Community Health Project (SAR No. 5840-IND, PCR No. 11997-IND)
was designed to develop and strengthen functional aspects of the health service delivery
system through the promotion of outreach systems and improvements in nutrition
policy and programming. This project was designed to complement these efforts
through assisting the Ministry of Health to meet perceived needs for more and better
trained health providers, particularly paramedical staff and nurses, to deliver improved
basic health and family planning services.
iii.      The project had two main operational objectives:  First the project
intended to expand the output and improve the quality of pre-sernce training for
paramedical staff. This was to be achieved through (i) strengthening the Center for
Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) within the Ministry of Health,
(ii) the provision of new and/or improved physical facilities and equipment for 32
schools and academies in 18 provinces, and (iii) three policy studies required to further
develop and improve health manpower policies.  Second, the project would expand
the capacity for and improve the quality of in-service training through
(iv) strengthening the Center for Education Training of Health Personnel



- iii -
(PUSDIKLAT), and (v) the provision of new and/or improved physical facilities for
eight in-service training centers to include four existing national centers, two existing
regional centers, and two new provincial level centers.
Implementation Experience
iv.       The project was approved by the Board in June 1985 and becarne effective
in January 1986 with a closing date of September 1989. Some implementation
problems emerged early in the project period. For example, the project encountered
budget constraints, in the form of limited counterpart funds for the civil works
program, 40 percent of which was to be financed by the Government. Despite efforts
to restructure the project in late 1987 implementation remained difficult and faced
delays throughout the life of the project, largely due to problems with the design of
the management structure for the project, significant shortfalls in the availability of
counterpart funds at critical junctures in the project plan and delays in the recruitment
and placement of technical assistance for the project. Achievements during the first
two years of implementation were below expectations, and even with a sharply
curtailed civil works program, cumulative disbursements totalled only US$470,000 in
March, 1987 and US$3.49 million in March, 1988.
V.        By late 1987, both Government and the Bank agreed that the project was
in need of significant adjustment. Following a major review, the loan was restructured
in May 1988 to redirect the emphasis from civil works to improving the quality of pre
and in-service training. Major adjustments included reductions in the civil works
program, the allocation of resources to the provision of books, teaching equipment and
teaching materials and definition of an integrated package of technical assistance
directed at strengthening the two key project institutions. At about the same time,
adequate counterpart funding was made available and cumulative disbursements rose
to a total of about US$9.5 million at the end of March 1989.
vi.       The thrust of the project during its first two years was primarily on civil
works. As a result, the studies on health manpower policies were delayed and could
not significantly influence policy on health manpower. Implementation of technical
assistance and the fellowship program were also delayed. Despite the restructuring
effort and a significant reduction in the civil works program, the project, in retrospect,
never attained its potential to influence human resource policies in the health sector.
vii.      Responsibility for the implementation of the project was based with the
Ministry of Health units responsible for pre-service (PUSDIKNAKES) and in-service
training (PUSDIKLAT) respectively. These units were established in conjunction with
the preparation of the project, and formalized in a decree issued in March, 1984.
Formally directed by the Secretary General of the MOH, the project was initially
managed by two Project Offices based at Pusdiklat and Pusdiknakes. Coordination
among the two agencies was less than satisfactory, and in conjunction with shortages
of counterpart funds, resulted in slow progress until a Project Secretariat, reporting to
both agencies, was established to facilitate implementation in late-1988.



- Iv -
viii.     Disbursements and results were disappointing during the first years of the
project. By March 1988, US$33.5 million (86 percent) of the original US$39 million
was undisbursed and 72 percent of the loan remained undisbursed in March 1989.
However, following adjustments in implementation arrangements in 1988 which
reduced the project's physical objectives, there were significant improvements in
disbursements. By October 1992 nearly $34 million had been disbursed. Four
extensions of the project were used to provide time for the completion of the reduced
construction plans for the project, and to complete the provision of equipment for the
schools that were established. In addition, during 1988-1992, 116 short-term and 22
long-term overseas fellowships to train selected staff of Pusdiknakes, Pusdiklat and
regional training institutions were completed.
ix.       Utilization of technical assistance and consultant services concentrated on
the use of national consultants to assist in the design and supervision of civil works in
the first three years of the project. The restructuring of the loan in late 1987 included
specification of an integrated package of technical assistance to assist both Pusdiknakes
and Pusdiklat in aspects of curricular reform and in strengthening the management of
health training and fellowships. Following a lengthy recruitment and selection process,
the integrated package was started in March 1990. Although this technical assistance
provided useful outputs, it is not clear that it had any lasting influence on health
manpower policy.
Project Results
X.        Despite initial problems in implementation, the project eventually achieved
two-thirds of its physical targets. Twenty-two of 32 schools or academies were built
and 10 in-service training centers were constructed or rehabilitated. Five out of the
nine originally targeted nursing schools were rehabilitated and one new nursing school
was constructed.
xi.       The Project's impact on institutional and policy issues was limited.
Although two of the three policy studies were eventually completed, they appear to
have had little impact on health manpower training policy. Recognizing this in 1990,
GOI and the Bank agreed to postpone consideration of the several institutional issues
concerning responsibility for manpower training and linkage with broader aspects of
health sector development to yet to be designed subsequent projects.
Project Sustainability
xii.      The project produced limited sustainable achievements. Improvements in
the macroeconomic environment and in the allocation of resources to health suggest
that the Government will not have difficulty in sustaining the recurrent costs of the
schools, academies and in-service training centers established through the project. But
the project's failure to significantly alter the institutional arrangements which govern
health manpower policy making, or move beyond identification of some of the
constraints to improved management of training institutions limits its effectiveness.
It is perhaps appropriate that the Bank and the Borrower decided, during the last stages



v 
of project implementation, to defer efforts to address broader issues of how best to
develop the health workforce to later discussions.
Lessons/Conclusions
xiii.     Design Requires Substantial Sectoral Knowledge.  In retrospect, it
seems that the fundamental problems of the project grew out of the limits of the Bank's
understanding of the health sector in general and health manpower issues in particular
at the time of appraisal. The design of the project, while consistent with health
planning and project design principles current at the time, showed little recognition of
the organizational and institutional setting in which the project would be implemented.
The project's dominant concern with improving production capacity also reflected
limited understanding of the performance of the health facilities that were to be staffed
by the products of this investment.
xiv.      Need for Analysis of Affordability. In a closely related vein, the project
was appraised with very little attention to the capacity of the Government to provide
the counterpart funds necessary to assure timely implementation. Although external
economic shocks, related to the decline in oil prices, could not have been anticipated
by the appraisal team, a clearer understanding of levels and trends in health
expenditures in the public sector may have helped to avoid the devastating impact that
the drop in counterpart funds had on project implementation.
xv.        Assigning responsibility for project management to the targets of
institutional development risks delay in the use of project resources, and can
overwhelm the target agency. In this case, it seems clear that the both Pusdiklat and
Pusdiknakes, neither of which existed prior to the project, needed to concentrate their
institutional and managerial resources on developing their basic organizational
capacities. Moreover, as new institutions, it would appear likely that both would have
benefited from more experience in the management of external finance before
becoming responsible for a project of this dimension.
xvi.      Early Identification of TORS and Selection Procedures for Technical
Assistance. This project shows that unless the objectives of technical assistance are
carefully specified, lengthy delays can ensue in securing these resources. In this case,
the appraisal report was largely silent on the purposes of the technical assistance to be
contracted through the project, referring generally to expectations that it would assist
in organizational development and improved management and planning. Once the
construction program was back on track, however, the work of agreeing on more
specific terms of reference and securing qualified assistance to fulfill them was
undertaken with relative success. It appears likely that greater attention to planning
these inputs prior to appraisal would have improved the overall perfornance of the
project.
xvii.     Need for an Evaluative Framework to Assess Project Progress. Last,
the absence of an evaluative framework, integral to the project appraisal, appears to
have constrained project performance. The most glaring example of this problem in



- vi -
the present case was the absence of a discussion in the appraisal of what specific
improvements were expected in the project's general objectives ("expanding the output
and improve the quality of manpower"). In the absence of this specification, little
attention was put on a review of whether the project objectives were appropriate to
health sector needs which reinforced the supply-side bias of the orientation of the
underlying approach to health manpower development. The appraisal also lacked a
format, in either the SAR or its working papers, which would assist Bank and
Borrower management to assess progress toward the project's institutional goals.






INDONESIA
SECOND HEALTH (MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT) PROJECT
(LOAN 2542-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECr REVIEW AND BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name        : Second Health (Manpower Development)
Loan No.             Loan 2542-IND
Loan Amount         : US$ 39 million equivalent
Project Period      :1985 - 1989, extended to March 1993
RVP Unit            : East Asia and Pacific Region
Country             : Indonesia
Sector              : Population and Human Resources
Subsector           : Population, Health and Nutrition
2. Background
2.1         In the early and mid-1980s, Indonesia's health status was, although
improving, less than satisfactory and lower than that found in neighboring countries.
Epidemiological conditions were largely unchanged from the mid-1970s, which buttressed
GOI's growing interest in improving the performance of its public health service delivery
system. The most prevalent causes of mortality and morbidity continued to include
infectious, parasitic and gastrointestinal diseases that are preventable or treatable through
the provision of basic health services.
2.2         In 1982, the Ministry of Health finalized a policy document, the National
Health System (SKN), which described the broad foundations for the long term
development of the Indonesia's health system.  This document provided a planning
framework for the Fourth National Five-Year Development Plan, 1984-89 (Repelita IV)
which further articulated GOI's policy goals in the health sector. Repelita IV set out an
ambitious agenda, aiming at achieving an increase in life expectancy to 60 years; a
reduction in infant mortality to 45 per thousand live births; a 50 percent reduction in the
incidence of communicable diseases; and a 67 percent reduction in protein-calorie
malnutrition in children under five. Repelita IV identified five key principles as the basis
for determining health sector policies, programs and activities: (a) strengthening health
service delivery, including measures to support and expand primary health care activities
at the community/village level; (b) strengthening health manpower development;



- 2 -
(c) expanding activities to improve nutrition, potable water supply, and environmental
health; (d) establishing programs to strengthen the overall management of the system; and
(e) improving the supply, distribution and quality of drugs, medicine and medical
equipment. The high priority placed on strengthening health manpower in this document
reflected a strong conviction that there was a risk that demand for health personnel,
especially nurses, midwives and paramedics to staff the rapidly growing public health
infrastructure, would exceed supply.
2.3         The public health delivery system, a network of health centers (puskesmas)
and subcenters (puskesmas pembantu) evolved rapidly during the second and third five
year plans. The speed of growth created a concern that demand for manpower to staff the
network of facilities was outstripping supply. Moreover, there was widespread concern
that the quality of available paramedic manpower was low, due to the absence of a
systematic in-service education and training system, poor management and technical
supervision, low salaries and limited prospects for career development, particularly for
nurses and other paramedics. During Repelita III, the Government took the first steps
toward addressing these problems through conducting a large scale inventory of available
health manpower. This was followed, in late 1981, by a joint USAID, WHO and Bank
mission that assessed short and long term health manpower needs.
2.4         The principal short term recommendations of this mission were:
*     the output of community health and hospital nurses should be increased
through the establishment of additional nursing schools, or Sekolah Perawat
Kesehatan (SPK) and for higher level nurses, Academies (Akper), in
provinces with the greatest need.
*     the output of technical paramedics (dental nurses, laboratory assistants,
pharmacists, radiologists, physiotherapists, anesthesiologists, medical
analysts and health inspectors/sanitarians) should also be increased through
the establishment of additional schools (public and private),
*     the quality of all categories of health manpower (graduate and paramedic)
should be improved through the establishment of additional in-service
training centers; and
*     the management of health  facilities, specifically  hospitals, and the
supervision of health manpower in hospitals and health centers, should be
strengthened.
2.5         In addition, the mission recommended a number of longer-term policy
measures, including the establishment of a single, national health manpower data base and
information system, improved policies for career development, compensation and
continuing education for all categories of health manpower, the improvement of
coordination between public and private sector training institutions to promote efficiency,
particularly in underserved provinces, and the redefinition of central and provincial roles
to promote greater responsibility for manpower planning at the provincial level.



- 3 -
2.6          This project thus evolved out of an overriding concern with the supply of
health services, and a shared conviction between the Bank and the Borrower, that staffing
the evolving network of public health facilities should be the primary focus of
governmental intervention in planning the health workforce.
3. Project Objectives and Organization
3.1          Objectives. The project's overall goal was to support the MOH's long-term
health manpower development plan, through (1) helping expand the output and improve
the quality of MOH paramedical manpower 1/ through (a) strengthening the Center for
Education of Health Manpower (PUSDIKNAKES) by local and overseas training and local
and foreign and technical assistance; (b) providing new and/or improved physical facilities
for 32 schools and academies in 18 provinces; and (c) carrying out three studies required
to further develop manpower development policies for Repelita V and beyond; and (2) help
expand the capacity for and improve the quality of MOH's in-service education and
training through (i) strengthening the Center for Education Training of Health Personnel
(PUSDIKLAT) through local and overseas training and local and overseas technical
assistance; and (ii) providing new and/or improved physical facilities for eight in-service
training centers. These objectives would be accomplished through the following project
components:
3.2          Project Description. The following activities were to be undertaken from
1985- 1989.
Pre-Service Paramedical Health Manpower Development
(PUSDIKNAKES) (US$ 40.4 million of which $14.6 million foreign)
3.3          Institutional Strengthening (US$4 million, of which US$3 million is
foreign). This component of the project aimed to strengthen the Center for Education of
Health Manpower which was formed just prior to the start up of the project. Three major
forms of institutional strengthening were planned:
(a)    Systems Support.  Decisions on the senior staffing of PUSDIKNAKES
were completed just prior to project startup and plans were established to
develop a work-plan specifying priority operational activities to be carried
out during Repelita IV. To assist in this process, the project planned to
provide 192 manmonths (168 foreign and 24 local) of technical assistance
services for organizational development, management and planning,
curriculum development, the development or improvement of systems for
1/ The term paramedical was used throughout the Staff Appraisal Report to encompass basic nurses,
nursing assistants (pekarya kesehatan), midwives and a wide range of allied staff such as laboratory
and x-ray technicians. More recent sector work suggests that there are major distinctions in the
formal and informal roles among these different categories, as well as important differences in the
factors influencing their demand and supply. This report uses the language of the original SAR
for consistency's sake. However, one of the lessons learned from the project was that this usage
obscures important health policy questions.



- 4 -
technical supervision, monitoring, evaluation and support of educational
programs and for manpower data collection and processing. A total of 35
fellowships-6 long-term and 29 short-term-were to be provided to
Pusdiknakes staff.  Funds were also provided for group educational
activities (workshops and seminars), to promote dialogue between provincial
officials and Pusdiknakes staff.
(b)   Strengthening Provincial Bodies. To support MOH's long-term strategic
focus on transferring technical and institutional support for health manpower
development to the provincial level, the project planned to create educaton
and training divisions in five provinces; East, West and Central Java,
North Sumatra and South Sulawesi. The project provided for 10 short-term
fellowships (2 per province) as well as workshops and seminars to support
the establishment of skills in manpower planning. This activity became a
covenant of the loan, and was to be achieved by March 31, 1986.
(c)    Centers of Excellence. A related initiative called for the selection of 10
schools and/or academies, representing each of the technical sub-disciplines
or categories of paramedical manpower as centers of excellence. The long-
term goal of this initiative was to strengthen the capability of these centers
so that they could provide technical and institutional support to other
schools working in the same discipline. The technical knowledge and skills
of the faculty of these 10 schools were to be strengthened through the
provision of 36 long-term fellowships, workshops and seminars. Selection
of the 10 centers of excellence became a covenant of the loan, and was to
be achieved by December 31, 1985.
3.4          Paramedical Schools and Academies (US$ 36.2 million of which $11.4
million foreign)
(a)   Increased capacity: The MOH planned to establish 48 new schools or
academies and to rehabilitate 42 existing schools or academies during
Repelita IV.  The project provided support for the construction or
rehabilitation of a total of 33 institutions within this overall plan, selected
on the basis of: (i) manpower categories in greatest need; (ii) overall health
status of the province; (iii) geographic location of the school/academy; and
(iv) site acquisition and land availability. The project planned to provide
funds for physical development (civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles
(2 per school) and books and teaching materials for 21 schools (6 new and
15 existing) and 11 academies (7 new  and 4 existing).  Of the 11
academies, 7 were to be developed as multistream academies, where groups
of two or three different subcategories of personnel would be placed on the
same site and would share common dormitory, dining, library and
auditorium space. Ten of the total 32 facilities were to be nursing schools
or academies, and the remaining 22 facilities were designated for training
assistant  phartnacists,  medical   analysts,  laboratory   assistants,
sanitation/health inspectors and dental assistants.



- 5 -
(b)   Support for Multistreaming:  Since the concept of multistreaming for
paramedical training was new to Indonesia, the project included three
covenants intended to facilitate the introduction of this concept, agreed at
negotiations: (i) establishment of a common core curricula for the different
paramedical categories to be 'multistreamed';2/ (ii) introduction of
multistream classes and prograns on a pilot basis in the seven multistream
academies; and (iii) establishment of a policy for future multistream
paramedical education by April 1, 1988.
3.5          Studies (US$ 0.2 million of which all is foreign). The project also provided
for short-term international technical assistance to assist in the conduct of three studies
which were to contribute to the development of health manpower policy:
(a)   Financial feasibility of the long-term health manpower development plan's
targets for the year 2000. This was to be completed by June 30, 1986.
(b)   Examination of the new role, functions, and status of nurse assistants
or "Pekarya kesehatan".   The future role, functions and career
development prospects for this category of paramedic was to be reviewed,
and plans for their longer-term utilization, career development and training
agreed. The review was to be completed by December 31, 1986, and a
plan for utilization and career development completed by April 1, 1988.
(c)   The new strategy of short-term training for health manpower through
"parallel" classes (double shifts) would be evaluated to assess its impact on
efficiency and training quality by December 31, 1986. Policy on the
continuation or otherwise of parallel classes was to be completed by April
1, 1988.
In-Service Health Personnel Development (PUSDIKLAT)
(US$ 12.9 million of which $4.2 million foreign)
3.6          Institutional Strengthening. This part of the project aimed to strengthen
the staff, function and effectiveness of the Center for Education and Training of Health
Personnel (Pusdiklat). Established in 1984, Pusdiklat was assigned responsibility for the
in-service training for the entire public health system, not only paramedicals, through the
development and coordination of programs for a set of national level in-service training
centers (Balai Latihan Kesehatan Masyarakat, BLKM) and provincial in-service training
centers (Kursus Latihan Kesehatan Masyarakat, KLKM). In addition to its responsibility
to coordinate the work of these centers, Pusdkilat also conducted short in-service training
courses, since Pusdkilat took over responsibility for obligatory public administration and
management training for MOH echelon III and IV personnel from the National Institute
of Public Administration (LAN) in 1984. It was also responsible for training trainers for
2/ 'Multistreaming' intended to accomplish efficiencies in training expenditures by coordinating
paramedic training programs on a single campus and sharing equipment, materials and facilities.



- 6 -
the BLKM and KLKM and supported pre-employment training and in-service training on
behalf of the four functional Directorates General of MOH.
3.7          To strengthen Pusdiklat's capacity to perform  these roles, the project
provided two forms of training:
(a)    Pusdiklat staff. Ten long-term fellowships (8 masters level in management
and planning and 2 doctoral level in research and development) and 11 short
term fellowships;
(b)   Training Center Staff. For staff of the in-service training centers, the
project provided for (i) experiential, field-based training in community
health program development for 84 selected national, regional and
provincial trainers; (ii) 20 masters-level fellowships in public health
education; and (iii) 18 manmonths of technical assistance to support the
development and implementation of these programs.
3.8          In-Service Training Centers (US$10.8 million of which US$2.5 million is
foreign). At the time of appraisal, Pusdiklat had seven existing training centers. These
had become severely deteriorated from their initial construction. They also had insufficient
capacity to manage the in-service training loads implicit in MOH's plans for the placement
of new staff during Repelita IV. The project therefore provided funds for the physical
development (civil works, equipment, furniture, vehicles, books and teaching materials)
of 10 in-service training centers, including the rehabilitation of 8 in-service training
centers, 4 at the national level, in Jakarta, Ciloto, Lemah Abang and Salaman, and for the
construction of 2 new provincial level facilities in Bali and Aceh, the construction of a new
regional center in South Sumatra (Palembang) and rehabilitation of a regional center in
Murnajati.
3.9          The project was to be organized and managed by the two Chiefs of these
centers, who, as Project Officers would report to the Secretary General of the MOH, the
formal Project Director. To ensure intra and inter-ministerial coordination, a Project
Advisory Board, constituting the Project Officers, the MOH Adviser, Health Technology
and Manpower, the Chief, Bureau of Planning, the Chief, MOH Inspector General and the
Chief, Health and Nutrition of Bappenas was established. This Board was to meet at least
quarterly to review overall project progress, approve plans and budgets for all components
and resolve any issues affecting project goals and implementation.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1          Design. The conceptual foundation for the project was the Ministry of
Health's long term health manpower plan, developed during the last years of Repelita III,
and specific implementation estimates for this plan developed for Repelita IV. The
strategic focus of this plan can best be characterized as a classically supply-side approach
to health workforce planning. The primary focus of the long term plan, and hence the
project design, was on the production of medical and paramedical personnel necessary to



adequately staff the Ministry's rapidly growing network of hospitals, health centers and
health subcenters. Conceptualization of staffing needs were based on prescriptive staffing
norms. These specified required numbers of staff by type and facility, based on normative
formulation of expected roles and functions. At the time, Indonesia's approach to the
definition of these norms was broadly consistent with conventional tenets of primary health
care delivery. The norms sought to maximize the provision of simple, curative care and
preventive activities through health centers and subcenters, which were assumed to be
attractive to the consuming public. This approach assumes there is demand for basic
preventive and curative services, and that establishment of a facility would result in
effective utilization of services. In Indonesia, as elsewhere, health planning tended to
ignore the existence of traditional or privately provided health services, and did little to
assess actual levels of demand or need for care.J/
4.2          Consistent with this approach, the health manpower plan, and the project,
exhibited a predominant concern with improving the accessibility of services, and hence
with rapidly increasing the quantity of workers, with relatively less attention to improving
or understanding qualitative dimensions of their expected and actual performance. At the
start of Repelita IV, health planners were understandably most concerned to establish the
production capacity necessary to assure a growing supply of paramedical workers for the
anticipated growth in the public health delivery system.
4.3          In retrospect, it is easy to question the appropriateness of this approach.
Experience since the design of the basic health service delivery structure in Indonesia has
raised a number of concerns with this overarching concern with supply of newly trained
staff, relative to finding ways to tap already available resources in the form of private and
traditional sources of care. The 'supply-side' approach and its application to public health
planning increasingly has been criticized from a number of perspectives. A commnon
theme is that this approach fails to incorporate workable mechanisms for making supply
systems responsive to unpredictable dimensions of demand. These systems also share a
tendency to develop bureaucratic, top-down managerial structures which inhibit innovation
and adaptation of resources to local needs.
4.4          In summary, the design of this project rested on what would now be
considered an incomplete and possibly inappropriate conceptual base. However, it would
be unfair to assess the design of the project exclusively on this criterion, since the
framework was typical of the times. Moreover, the project was designed in the context
of two additional Bank investments, both of which did focus on problems of improving the
performance of the programs (for family planning, in Population IV, and for community
health and nutrition prograrns, in Nutrition and Community Health II) which were
prepared, appraised and implemented conterminously with this project.  Creating a
3/ This approach was followed in many settings, and was actively promoted, particularly following the
Health for All by the Year 2000 Conference in Alma Ata, by most international donors active in
the health sector. Although there were critiques of the approach, including its application in
Indonesia (see Hull and Hull, 1978), its appeal was nearly universal, perhaps because of the relative
ease of scaling up' to a comprehensive program design once agreement on the basic nornative
picture of how services should be delivered was developed.



- 8 -
"division of labor" between the structural, infrastructure focus of the Second Health
Manpower project, and the functional, performance improvement goals of the latter
projects may have been a rational approach to assisting the MOH to improve its capacity
and performance through a manageable set of discrete investments.
4.5          The design of the project is thus most appropriately assessed in a context
which accepts the basic supply-side approach to health manpower planning. When viewed
in this way, the project design appears to be internally consistent, well-linked with
Government plans and perspectives on the needs of the sector and largely appropriate.
However, several design problems in the project are apparent, even within this context.
4.6          First, the project design seems, in retrospect to have inadequately linked
inputs with its expected outputs and objectives. Compounding this, the project lacked an
evaluative framework which would assist the Borrower, or Bank supervision teams (which
changed with some frequency) to assess progress and performance. The objectives of the
project were to "help expand the output and quality of MOH paramedical personnel"
through rapidly increasing the numbers and physical capacity of both pre-service and in-
service training systems. The design, as described in the SAR, focused particularly on the
explication of the numbers of schools to be built, and did not specify its expectations as
concerns numbers, expected skill levels or qualitative characteristics of the manpower to
be produced through the schools. To its credit, the design did provide for a major
program of fellowships and large technical assistance inputs as an instrument for
developing improved curricula and training quality, but these areas receive little explicit
definition in the SAR beyond specification of the numbers of manmonths of technical
assistance and fellowships to be provided. The SAR included no reference to specific
output goals, nor did it clearly state which of the several categories of paramedical staff
covered in the project scope were of greatest interest or concern to overall sectoral
performance. Specification of the institutional development goals of the project was also
weak.
4.7          Second, the provisions for the "software" programs to enhance qualitative
dimensions of paramedical training, primarily for fellowships and technical assistance, did
not receive adequate attention at the design stage. For example, although there is a
reference in the SAR to collaboration with WHO for the management of fellowships, this
arrangement was dropped during project negotiations, which led to delay and
disappointments with the quality and timeliness of the fellowship programs. The SAR also
provided only cursory guidance on the proposed content and purposes of the 234
manmonths of technical assistance which were to be provided, leading to extended delays
in agreeing the terms of reference for particular technical assistance. Ultimately terms of
reference were only agreed during the first (of four) extension periods that were required
to complete the implementation of the project.
4.8          Third, the project called for an aggressive and large scale construction
program  to establish new  and rehabilitate existing schools and academies.   The
construction plan was justified in the context of the MOH's long term health manpower
plans, and calibrated to reflect the role of other donors, particularly the Asian
Development Bank who were also supporting the manpower plan. Nevertheless, there is



-9-
the SAR provides only a cursory assessment of the feasibility of implementing the civil
works program on time, and did not analyze the availability of GOI counterpart funds to
provide for the 40 percent of the total civil works budget estimated in the total project
costs. Implementation arrangements for the management of the civil works component
relied primarily on existing MOH arrangements, with some provision for local
consultancies to assist in design and supervision. In retrospect, the project design seems
to have underestimated the level of effort and overestimated the availability of counterpart
funds required to effectively deliver the civil works program on time.
4.9          Organization. The project was designed to be organized and managed by
the two agencies responsible for pre-service (Pusdiknakes) and in-service (Pusdiklat)
training, which were established, through a break-up of the former, in March 1984.
Staff from the participating Centers, including a finance officer, and equipment specialist,
a construction adviser and an architect or engineer from (MOH's INSTALMED) were
assigned to be responsible for the project monitoring, reporting and coordination. No
further organizational mechanisms to create links between the pre-service and in-service
training centers, and the functional Directorate Generals of the Ministry, beyond those
inherent in their broader organization mandate, were specified for the program. This
reflects the project's predominant concern with the production capacity side of manpower
planning, and relative lack of attention to assessment or reform of the technical and clinical
roles of particular categories of paramedical personnel.
4.10         A notable feature of the organizational structure, in retrospect, is the fact
that the concerned Centers were at once the target of the proposed institutional
strengthening efforts, and the responsible implementing unit. As new units with no prior
experience managing a Bank-financed investment, it is perhaps not surprising that project
management was less than smooth in the early years of implementation. Despite repeated
recommendations from Bank supervision missions, this design flaw was not addressed until
August 1989. Only at this point was a project management unit directly responsible to the
Secretary General and authorized to coordinate project-related activities of both units
established. While this organizational design assured that project supported activities
would be intimately linked with the evolution of the MOH's institutional capacity as a
whole, it also offered little assurance that the project would receive the full time attention
of the concerned Project Officers. Responsibility for implementation of the project at the
provincial level was assigned to the Kanwil, or provincial health officer, who would
manage the project in the context of his regular duties. In addition, a full time project
implementation officer was to be appointed in participating provinces to support local
procurement, the preparation of work programs and budgets and to assist with project
monitoring and supervision. During the project, it became clear that these arrangements
were overly optimistic about the feasibility of effectively adding management of a Bank
project on to full-time management positions.



- 10 -
5. Project Implementation
5.1         The project became effective on January 21, 1986 about five months after
the planned date of effectiveness. The implementation of the project was not smooth and
reflected chronic problems relating to constraints on the counterpart funds available for the
project. Following a Bank review of the project in November 1987, the loan agreement
was amended in May 1988 to reduce the overall civil works program for the project and
refocus resources on provision of equipment and materials for the completed construction,
develop an integrated package of technical assistance aimed to assist both Pusdiknakes and
Pusdiklat and establish a Project Secretariat. One outcome of the review was a decision
to extend the loan closing date to September 1990. In October 1990, the legal agreement
was substantially revised to focus project resources on improving the quality of training,
and to reduce the civil works program. A second extension of the loan closing date, of
18 months, was approved at the same time, primarily to provide for the completion of the
procurement and installation of equipment for schools and academies. Two subsequent
extensions of six months each were ultimately approved, in April and December 1992 and
the project was closed in March 1993.
5.2         The implementation history of the project can be seen as occurring in three
phases. During the first, dating from the project launch, held in July 1985 to mid-1988,
project authorities and Bank supervision teams concentrated on initiating the first phase of
the construction program, which focused on the construction of 17 of the originally
targeted 32 buildings. Two key constraints to the smooth implementation of what had been
considered a reasonable construction plan emerged early in this phase. First, governmental
budgeting procedures dictated the use of single year contracts for design and supervision
consultancies and required that counterpart funds not spent in a particular fiscal year revert
to the treasury. This made it difficult for project authorities to efficiently allocate available
resources and seriously complicated the design and ultimately the construction program.
Second, external changes in the macroeconomic environment, most particularly a rapid
decline in oil revenues, resulted in severe cuts to the MOH's development and recurrent
budget allocations. These in turn severely constrained the availability of counterpart funds
for the implementation of the civil works program. The delay in the construction program
understandably occupied the lion's share of managerial attention, from both Bank and
Borrower throughout this phase of the project.  Although initial steps toward the
implementation of the technical assistance component of the project were undertaken, the
policy studies included in the original design were slipped to allow for the completion of
the construction program. The implementation delays during this period were reflected
in very slow disbursement of the proceeds of the loan: By July, 1987, eighteen months
after project effectiveness, less than US$2 million had been disbursed.
5.3         Progress on implementation continued to be slow during 1987. In addition
to the problems outlined above, there were significant changes in project management at
Pusdiknakes, as well as a major change in the organization and composition of the Bank
team responsible for the supervision of the project as a consequence of the re-organization.
Responding to the apparent implementation difficulties, the Bank proposed and
subsequently conducted a major review of the project in November, 1987, which initiated
the second phase of the project. The primary outcome of this review was an agreement



- 11 -
to significantly restructure the project. In particular, it was agreed that the financial
constraints on the MOH's budget made it unlikely that the originally construction prograrn
could be completed, and an agreement was reached to postpone the second phase of
construction (the remaining 16 facilities) to a possible future project. The mission also
recommended major revisions in the legal agreements for the project, which resulted in
an increase in the percentage of Bank financing for construction from 60 percent to
76 percent, a detailed reconsideration of the detailed terms of reference and recruitment
procedures for the international technical assistance for the project, and an agreement to
increase the project's allocation for the equipment and materials to sharpen the project's
focus on improving the quality of training.
5.4          The amendments to the legal agreements which flowed out of the November,
1987 review mission eventually resulted in an agreed revised loan agreement in May,
1988, which marks the beginning of the third phase of the project. During this period,
project management focused on the completion of the more limited construction program,
the procurement, distribution and installation of the equipment for the constructed schools
and academies, and, implementation of the re-designed technical assistance component of
the project.  A further loan amendment, in October 1990 recorded several minor
adjustments among categories of expenditure, including an increase in the allocation for
project management (exclusive of salaries and allowances) to overcome continued problems
with the availability of government counterpart funds to support these works and cancelled
US$700,000 from the loan. In addition, recognizing that its purposes were now moot, the
study of the use of parallel classes was dropped from the loan agreement.
5.5          Overall, three major areas created problems for the implementation of the
project: delays and difficulties in organizing and implementing civil works, difficulties,
during all three phases of the project, in project management, managing the procurement
of goods, and equipment for the new schools and academies, and uneven attention to and
slow progress on the implementation of the limited 'software' goals incorporated in the
original project design.
5.6          The outcome of the lengthy implementation delays, two amendments and
multiple extensions was a completed project at considerable variance from the appraised
project. Major variances were as follows:
Pusdiknakes
5.7          Civil Works. The original project planned for the construction of 32 new
nursing schools and academies, and the construction of 8 national or regional in-service
training centers. In 1987, in response to the slow progress in construction, the plan was
reduced to a much smaller list, resulting in a total of 21 new nursing schools or academies
at the end of the project. The project did complete construction of nine in-service training
centers (see Table 5.1). The mix of new construction and rehabilitation efforts within the
overall program was also adjusted, focusing greater resources on rehabilitation of existing
facilities than anticipated at appraisal. However, equipment was provided to a total of 33
schools or academies, largely in line with appraised estimates.



- 12 -
5.8         Equipment and Vehicles.  The original loan agreement called for the
provision of equipment and supplies for both new and rehabilitated schools and academies,
as well as supplies of books for the regional and national in-service training centers. No
action was taken on the procurement of equipment or books and materials until well into
the fourth year of the project. Moreover, the 1987 supervision/restructuring mission found
that the original project design had significantly underestimated equipment costs, and as
for civil works, had optimistically planned that GOI would be able to finance 60 percent
of the equipment, which proved unrealistic due to the fall in oil prices and a fall in the
dollar exchange rate against the Yen and ECU (likely sources of supply) since the date of
appraisal. Consequently, costs for equipment, furniture and, ultimately, vehicles were re-
estimated and allocations from the loans for these items increased from US$2.5 million at
appraisal to US$5.2 million in the first loan amendment and US$12.6 in the second.
Although the procurement process was extremely protracted, equipment was ultimately
provided to 33 schools and academies. In addition, project resources were used to procure
45 vehicles (1 for Pusdiknakes, 1 for Pusdiklat, 1 each for 33 schools/academies and 10
for BLKM  and KLKM) following the second amendment.  No problems in the
procurement of these vehicles were reported.
5.9         Institutional Strengthening:    Fellowships.    Although  eventually
implemented fellowships, and significant inputs of technical assistance, were heavily
concentrated in the last two years of the project. Difficulties in recruiting students with
sufficient English language skills early in the project resulted in a decision to reallocate
fellowship resources toward a greater reliance on in-country training than anticipated at
appraisal. In addition, where the appraisal anticipated the completion of 29 short-term
overseas training courses for Pusdiknakes staff, none were completed, 3 of 6 planned long
term overseas fellowships were completed. A major substantive focus (13 of 29 short term
fellowships) of the fellowship plan at appraisal was for the provision of 13 short term
fellowships in technical supervision of training programs and another in planning and
management (6 of 29). In the end, the project accomplished little of its objectives in this
area, providing none of the short term training programs originally anticipated, and only
three of the six long term fellowships (see Table 5.2).
5.10        Technical Assistance. The SAR did not provide detailed explication of the
expected roles and contributions of the technical assistance that was to be provided to
Pusdiknakes or Pusdilcat. Early in the project, a consultant was recruited and worked for
18 months to assist in the development of approaches to strengthening field-based,
experiential training methods for paramedic training. Although this led to increased
awareness of the need to strengthen the use of this type of training among schools and at
Pusdiklat, the project did not, judging from project records, pursue this theme following
the completion of the consultancy.  Following the 1987 review of the project, the
implementation of technical assistance focused on the development of an 'integrated
package' of technical assistance which was designed to add an integrated program of
foreign and local consultancy services. Detailed terms of reference for the integrated
package were developed with significant assistance from Bank supervision missions. A
series of problems, attributable largely to the fact that the package was being designed to
fit the needs of two institutions (Pusdiknakes and Pusdiklat) as a whole and the lack of
experience in competitive recruitment and selection of technical assistance (e.g., lengthy



- 13 -
time to develop a short list acceptable to the Bank, delays while contract terms and original
proposals were revised at Bank insistence) held back the establishment of the re-designed
TA package. Ultimately,. however, the package was completed and awarded to the
Association of Canadian Community Colleges and P.T. Inersia Ampak Engineers and work
initiated in March 1990. Once in place, the technical assistance teamn provided valuable
advice, focusing on (i) assistance in updating and revising 13 curricula for particular
paramedic specialties, (ii) advice on planning and management issues to the central
agencies as well as the three selected centers, (iii) an evaluation of the multistream
concept, and (iv) the design and implementation of a purpose-designed program to provide
overseas 48 short-term fellowships in a range of paramedic specialties.
5.11        Strengthening Provincial Bodies. The project's effort to strengthen health
manpower training units at the provincial level in six provinces were implemented through
the provision of short term fellowships, workshops and seminars.  Two long term
fellowships in public health management were completed, but there is little evidence that
relationships between the central manpower agencies and provincial bodies were
significantly altered.
5.12        Selected Centers. Ten schools and/or academies were identified to become
centers of excellence in line with the appraised schedule in 1986. The centers were
identified on the basis of their experience, quality of training, relative proximity to Jakarta
and to represent the major types of paramedical manpower included in the project. Visits
to the 10 selected centers during the 1987 review of the project found that the quality and
capabilities of the selected centers were extremely mixed, and not sufficiently reflective
of each center's potential to contribute technically or substantively to its sister institutions.
Consequently, it was agreed that this effort would concentrate on three centers from the
original 10. These three institutions, AKPER/Bandung, AKPER/Jakarta and AKZI/Jakarta
were encouraged to develop work programs that would more clearly than heretofore
articulate their proposed relationships with sister institutions, focusing on (i) staff
development, (ii) introduction of new curricula and the preparation of new teaching
methods, and (iii) preparation of basic handbooks and written materials in Bahasa
Indonesia to assist in the transfer of new curricula and teaching methods. Progress on the
implementation of the resulting workprograms was evaluated, in 1989, to be encouraging,
although communication among the centers was limited and there were concerns that the
additional workburden of being a center of excellence would displace normal teaching
workloads.  The selected centers eventually provided a total over 3,000 short-term
fellowships for various paramedic trainers from across the project.
5.13        Support for Multistreaming. Progress on the development and evaluation
of the multistream concept was constrained by the major delay in the implementation of
the civil works program, since the sites where the concept was to be tested were not
finished. Once completed, the multistream academy concept does not appear to have been
effectively implemented, largely due to considerable confusion on the objectives of the
concept, particularly among school and academy directors and lack of detailed operational
guidance from Pusdiknakes on the intent and specific expectations of the concept. This
was reinforced by budgetary arrangements which allocate pre-service training resources
by functional program, and a consequent reluctance to risk not being accountable for



- 14 -
program funds because of a co-mingling of training resources at the institutional level.
Compounding this problem, the delay in addressing 'software' elements of the loan until
post-1987 delayed work on the design or refinement of elements of the curricula for
particular paramedic specialists to define 'common ground' that could become the focus
of a multistream concept. Since continuation of the multiple administrative and budgetary
structures was consistent with SAR, Government continued to be reluctant to move to an
integrated administrative structure and budget at the school level. A supervision mission
in March 1988 concluded that effective solutions to these problems would need to be
tackled under a future project. A subsequent evaluation of the views of school and
academy Directors conducted in January 1991, concluded that the concept, while sound,
needed significant additional work to become meaningful.
Pusdiklat
5.14        Civil Works. Implementation of the civil works program for national
(BLKM) and regional (KLKM) in-service training centers was largely consistent with the
project design. By the completion of the project, five new regional in-service training
centers had been constructed, four new national centers had been constructed and the
national training center in Jakarta (associated with the Pusdiklat campus) was rehabilitated
(Table 5.1 .b). The completion of these works suffered from the sarne sources of delay as
experienced in the construction program for Pusdiknakes.
5.15        Equipment, Furniture and Materials. Consistent with the original project
design, packages of basic equipment, furniture and books and materials were procured for
each of 10 centers.  Major implementation problems included, as for Pusdiknakes,
underestimation of the costs of these materials at appraisal, and limited provision of books
and training materials in Bahasa Indonesia. The integrated technical assistance package
included review and revision of the books and materials lists for these procurements and
updated estimates were integrated into the second loan amendment.
5.16        Institutional Strengthening: Fellowships. Although significantly delayed
the planned program of overseas and in-country fellowship training was largely completed,
with significant inputs through the integrated technical assistance program. As detailed in
Table 5.3b, the primary variance from appraisal estimates was on the completion of long
term overseas training programs. More significantly than the numbers however, the
fellowship programs, did not occur until during the first extension of the project, which
constrained their impact on the efficiency or effectiveness of project related activities.
There has not been a formal evaluation of the impact of the fellowships program on the
operations or effectiveness of either BLKM or KLKM. However, issues concerning staff
qualifications appear to be less significant factors in their performance than fragmentation
of responsibility for determining content for in-service training among functional and
program units of the Ministry, Pusdiklat and provincial authorities.
5.17        Institutional Strengthening:  Technical Assistance.  The integrated
package of technical assistance which was eventually put in place in March, 1990 was
designed to focus on the same set of issues as for Pusdiknakes, and included the
implementation of the overseas short-term overseas fellowship training programs. Five



- 15 -
Table 5.1(a): CONSTRUCTION OF PRE-SERVICE TRAINNG PROGRAMS (SCHOOL AND
ACADEMY), ACCORDING TO APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION, BY PROVINCES
No.       Province              Institution      Appraisal          Completed
New           Rehab.
1.  DI Aceh                   School                 1        0               0
2.  North Sumatra              School                1        0                0
3.  West Sumatra               School                2        1                0
Academy               1        1                0
4.  South Sumatra              School                2        0                0
5.  Jambi                      School                2        1                0
6.  Riau                       School                1        1                0
7.  DKI Jakarta                School                2        1                1
Academy               1        2                1
8.  West Java                 School                 2        2               0
Academy               1        2                0
9.  Central Java               School                1        1                0
Academy               2        2               0
10. DI Yogyakarta             Academy                1        1               0
11. East Java                 School                2         2               0
Academy               2        2               0
12. Bali                      Academy                1        0               0
13. North Sulawesi            School                2         0               0
14. South Sulawesi            Academy                1        1               0
15. NTB                       School                 1        0               0
16. East Kalimantan           School                 1        0               0
17. Maluklu                   School                2         1               0
18. Irian Jaya                School                 1        0               0
Total                                          32        21               2
Table 5.1(b): CONSTRUCTION OF IN-SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAMS (BLKM AND
KLKM), ACCORDING TO APPRAISAL AND IMPLEMENTATION, BY PROVINCES
No.       Province              Institution       Appraisal         Completed
New           Rehab.
1.  DI Aceh                   KLKM                   1        0               0
2.  North Sumatra              KLKM                  0         1               0
3.  South Sumatra              KLKM                  1         1               0
4.  DKI Jakarta                BLKM                  1         1               1
5.  West Java                  BLKM                  2        2                0
KLKM                  0         1               0
6.  Central Java               BLKM                  1         1               0
7.  East Java                  KLKM                  1         1               0
8.  Bali                       KLKM                  1         1               0
Total                                           8         9               1



- 16 -
person months of assistance in organization and management were provided to Pusdiklat.
There is little evidence to suggest that this technical assistance resulted in overcoming
largest institutional issue facing the organization which is the lack of clarity concerning
authority over the design and conduct of in-service training between Pusdiklat and the
programmatic units of the central Ministry of Health.
Table 5.2: LOCATION OF COMPLETED CONSTRUCTION, BY PROVINCE AND TYPE
Construction             Rehabilitation
Pusdiknakes (Pre-service)
DKI Jakarta
AKPER, Jakarta                          1
ATEM/APRO, Jakarta (multistream)        1
SPRG, Jakarta                           1
SMAK, Jakarta
APKTS/AKZI, Jakarta
West Java
xPK, Sumedang                           1
SPRG, tasikmalaya                       I
AKPER, Bandung                          1
AAK, Bandun                            1
Central Java
SPRG, Semarang                          I
AKPER/APRO, Semarang (multistream)      1
AKFIS, Solo                             1
AKZI/AKPER/APK, Yogyakarta
(multistream)                 1
East Java
SPK, Madiun                             I
SPK, Kediri                             1
AKPER/AKNES, Surabaya (multistreamn)    I
Sumatra Selatan
KLKM, Palembang                         1
AKPERtAKZI, Malang (multistrearn)       1
West
SPK, Solok                             1
AKZI/APK, Padang (multistream)          1
South
SPRG, Jambi                            1
SPK, Tanjung Pinang                    1
AKZI/AKFIS, Ujung Pandang (multistream)  1
SPK, Ternate                           1



- 17 -
Construction             Rehabilitation
PUSDIKLAT (In-service)
DKI Jakarta
BLKM, Cilandak                          1
Central Pusdiklat                                                1
West Java
BLKM, Ciloto                            1
BLKM, Lemah Abang                       1
KLKM, Bandung                           1                         1
Central Java
BLKM, Salaman                           1                         1
East Java
KLKM, Burnajati                         1
Bali
KLKM, Denpasar                          1
Sumatra Utara
KLKM, Medan                             1
Studies
5.18        The project included three studies: (i) a review of the financial implications
of manpower requirements of MOH's staffing plans through the year 2000, (ii) review and
analysis of the expected role to be played by 'pekarya kesehatan', or nurse auxiliaries, a
new category of health assistants for which short term training was begun at about the
same time as the project was appraised, and (iii) an assessment of the impact of parallel
classes on the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of training programs at the school and
academy level. The first study, a review of the financial implications of the MOH's
manpower requirements, received considerable attention during the first year of project
implementation, and an interim report, which emphasized problems with the availability
and quality of data on current placements of health workforce by type and location was
reviewed by a Bank supervision mission in 1987.   This mission provided detailed
suggestions for improving the study, though notably was silent on the question of the
demand for and utilization of the health workforce. Project records indicate that a study
was completed in 1988. The findings were incorporated into Bank sector work (Issues in
Health Planning and Budgeting) in 1989.
5.19        Terms of reference and detailed arrangements for the study of Pekarya
Kesehatan are not mentioned in project records until 1987, and the GOI did complete a



- 18 -
survey of secondary data on the placement of these workers. Although project records do
not justify attribution to the project financed study, training of 'pekarya kesehatan' was
discontinued in 1989.
5.20         Terms of reference for a study of the impact of parallel classes on training
efficiency, quality and effectiveness were not agreed by the time of the 1987 review of the
project. Parallel classes were initially implemented to accelerate the training of nurses
during Repelita IV. They were instituted for much of the 1984 and 1985 batch of training,
but were discontinued in 1986 as concerns with an excess supply of paramedic manpower
began to displace concern with excess demand. The study was ultimately dropped from
consideration in the project.
6. Project Results
6.1          This section assesses the results of the project from two perspectives. First,
how well was the project managed? Were the inputs provided appropriately employed to
address the overall objectives of the project? Second, what was the project's overall
development impact, or contribution to the effectiveness of Indonesia's health workforce?
The general finding that emerges in this section is that on both dimensions, the project was
less than fully effective. In part, the project's limitations can be attributed to it being a
relatively large endeavor. The project stretched the capacity of the core implementing
agencies, which had not previously managed a large Bank-financed effort, as evidenced
by the problems and delays in achieving the project's physical targets. In addition, the
project appears to have had highly constrained results in terms of its influence on health
workforce policy and institutional capacity. This in turn appears to be a consequence of
the project's initial design, which, in retrospect, does not appear to have sufficiently
considered broader sectoral and institutional issues.  Efforts were made, by both the
Borrower and the Bank, to redirect project resources during the implementation period to
address issues of training quality and the management of human resources in the health
sector. However, these efforts were limited and occurred too late in the project cycle to
exert a strong influence on overall effectiveness.
6.2          Use of Resources. Despite delays, the project was able to achieve the
majority of its physical goals and 97 percent of the investment was eventually disbsursed.
The review of the project in late 1987 correctly identified the major sources of delay in
completion of the project's construction program, and appropriately reduced the overall
size of the program.  In addition, Bank supervision missions made effective use of
instruments to facilitate improved performance, through such steps as establishing a special
account for the project, which facilitated more rapid disbursement of loan proceeds, and
through intensive efforts to assist the Borrower in identifying ways to improve
implementation through amendments to the legal documents
6.3          It is important to note that the project's civil works and equipment targets
were a "slice" of the Health Manpower Development plan that was used as the base for
the project design. This plan called for the construction of 48 new schools and academies
to assure the availability of training places to meet the growing demand for health



- 19 -
personnel. The availability of Bank financing for a significant proportion of this program
may have, despite the delays helped to assure that at least some of this construction was
completed despite the oil price shocks and severe reductions in MOH's budget in the mid-
1980s.
6.4          Utilization of technical assistance and fellowship resources, the project's
primary instruments for achieving improvements in training quality was less successful.
Beyond the implementation of an 18 month individual consultancy on improving field
practice and experiential training methods, which appears not to have had significant
follow-up in the context of the project, technical assistance resources were not put in place
until 1990, six months after the project's originally planned closing date. Not surprisingly,
although the terms of this technical assistance contract were completed in a timely fashion,
the findings and insights developed through the activity had little impact on overall project
results.
6.5          The conclusion that emerges is that the project did in fact, despite many
constraints and delays, make use of the inputs that were made available. The timing of
this utilization, however, appears to have limited the overall results of the project.
Moreover, in retrospect, it is easy to speculate that the mix of these resources, with more
than two thirds of total project resources allocated to civil works was inappropriate.
6.6          Development Effectiveness.  This section reviews the development
effectiveness of project results concerning two of its objectives:  (i) evidence of
institutional strengthening and improved organization in Pusdiknakes and Pusdiklat and
(ii) the project's contribution to health manpower policy. The conclusion that emerges is
that the project may not have been highly effective in respect of either of these broad
objectives. This outcome appears to be primarily a function of project design, and its
emphasis on production capacity with insufficient attention to whether the projections of
the demand for health workers were appropriate in the context of the health sector in
Indonesia. This fundamental design problem could not be overcome within the boundaries
of the project.
6.7         Institutional Strengthening at Pusdiknakes/Pusdiklat.  The primary
components of the project aimed to strengthen the organization and management of the
Pusdiknakes and Pusdiklat respectively. Although there has been no specific evaluation
of the achievement of these objectives, the implementation record of the project suggests
that improvements in institutional capacity in either agency were limited. The fact that the
management arrangements were significantly adjusted as late as the second amendment of
the loan, when it was agreed that a Project Secretariat, to be financed at 100% (exclusive
of salaries) would become responsible for project management, suggests that little
'strengthening' occurred in either agency between 1985 and 1990.  An evaluation
conducted by the technical assistance team in 1991, provides indicators of the institutional



- 20 -
and organizational problems that continued to constrain the effectiveness of these agencies
at project completion.4/
6.8          The evaluation team visited each of 33 training schools or academies to
examine the incoming students input to pre-service training, the educational process within
schools and academies, the output of the schools and academies and, experience to date
with the implementation of the multistream concept in those institutions where facilities
designed for multistreaming purposes were constructed. Principal findings are useful as
an indication of the institutional development agenda that still needs to be addressed at the
end of the project.
Students. A new national student selection process was introduced by
Pusdiknakes in 1987/1988 (without project assistance). The study team
found that the new process, which emphasized the use of exams for
selecting students, still had timing problems and problems: (i) timing of
student selection overlapped with operating budgets at the school/academy
level were inadequate to support stepped up recruitment efforts. Last,
despite the new selection process, there were reports of continued ambiguity
concerning responsibility for final selection among the Kanwil, Pusdiknakes
and school/academy directors who felt a need for guidance on their role in
the selection process.
*     =Educational Process. This evaluation also assessed the adequacy of school
and academy physical facilities and the availability of teaching materials and
equipment, among facilities in the project. The evaluation tearn found
problems, subsequently addressed by the project, with adequate water
supply, western style showers in the dormitories which were unacceptable
to students and faculty. The majority of the Directors interviewed reported
that they had not been involved in the design of the new facilities. Major
gaps wree also found in the quantity and quality of books and audiovisual
materials available for teaching, materials that were only available in
English. Organizational arrangements for the acquisition of materials were
also inadequate. Directors and faculty thus have no control over incoming
material, and lack awareness of available materials. Those interviewed at
the school academy level expressed general satisfaction with the process of
curriculum preparation and implementation, though there was (and
continues to be) universal concern with the large gap between the theoretical
portions of curricula and limited exposure to practical and field based
experience in applying these concepts. Resources to facilitate field work,
and clear operational principles for planning field experiences were
insufficient.
4/ Improvement of Management of Training Institutions: A Study of 32 Pusdiknakes Health
Manpower Institutions: Association of Canadian Community Colleges in Association with P.T.
Inersia Ampak Engineers. January 1991.



- 21 -
6.9         Management and Center/School Responsibility. The evaluation report
examined questions concerning the organization and management of training programs in
all 32 schools, and reached two broad conclusions. First, the team recommended that
Pusdiknakes should revisit its role vis. each of the schools, and work to delegate
responsibility for institutional level management to the Directors and their staff. The
report recommended that Pusdiknakes adjust its role to focus on broad monitoring of the
educational process and improve its capacity to act as a liaison between school and
academies and the Ministry of Health. It recommended further that Directors and key
institutional personnel at the school level receive training in long range and strategic
institutional planning.
6.10        Impact on Health Manpower Policy. The key instruments through which
the project was designed to influence health policy were: I) the establishment of a small
number of multistream academies as a way to encourage improvements in the efficiency
and effectiveness of paramedic training, and 2) design and implementation of the three
policy studies. As previously noted, actual performance on each of these topics was
limited, and the impact of these efforts on health policy apparently very limited.
6.11        The multistream  concept remained poorly understood and largely not
endorsed by the Directors of schools and academies interviewed in 1990/1991. Most
school or academy Directors reported lack of clear guidance and expectations regarding
the concept. Many were unclear on where the concept originated, or its purpose and
objectives. The evaluation found that few of the resources that were to be shared across
programs in multistream settings were in fact shared. For instance, in one school the
common library had been divided into three separate areas, with individual collections and
circulation controls organized for each of the individual programs of training (organized
by category of paramedic personnel). Litle administrative coordination across sprograms
occurs. One explanation for this result, which to date has not changed is that planning and
budgeting arrangements are fragmented along paramedic category lines. Overall, it would
appear that the project achieved little with regard to either developing or implementation
of the multistream concept.
6.12        The results of policy research on the effectiveness of the use of parallel
classes and on the role and function are similarly disappointing, though less well
documented. Although work on both efforts was started, and a study, using secondary
data on pekarya kesehatan was completed in 1989, it is difficult to attribute the decision
to stop the program on the basis of the project-financed research. A major finding of
research on parallel classes was that they are ineffective if unaccompanied by the provision
of additional resources to assure reasonable student/faculty ratios and equipment. By
1988, Government was increasingly concerned that the numbers of paramedics being
produced would exceed the number of civil service posts available. A decision was
accordingly taken to stop parallel classes in 1987.  However, this decision was
subsequently reversed in 1990, when the Ministry of Health initiated a program to
accelerate the training of the bidan di desa, or village midwife, and returned to the use of
parallel classes to rapidly increase their rate of production. If the study of parallel classes
did influence policymaking on the production of health manpower, it was clearly not



- 22 -
sufficiently influential to withstand the pressures, external to the project and the project
implementation units, to rapidly develop this category of personnel.
6.13         Three factors appear to underlie these disappointing results.  First, the
overall size, and early problems with the civil works program appears to have quickly
captured the focus of both Bank and Government supervision of the project. As a result,
work to initiate the policy studies was delayed to a point where decisions that were to be
addressed through the research were already made, thus obviating any significant
commitment to the implementation of study findings. Second, both Bank and government
management teams responsible for the project went through significant and frequent
changes between project startup and completion.  This lack of continuity in project
management was perhaps exacerbated by the lack of detail in the staff appraisal report on
the objectives and expected outcomes of the multistream concept, the role of technical
assistance and, particularly, the expected contributions of the research program. Third,
it is interesting to note that project records indicate little effort, on the part of either the
government or the Bank, to identify or create linkages between this project and other
projects and activities in the health and population lending and ESW program. This
appears to be a result of the need to concentrate supervision resources until well into the
fourth year of the project on the completion of the civil works program and later, the
restructuring of the loan. Once the project was restructured, delays in the process of
recruiting and placing the integrated package of technical assistance, and a lengthy process
of preparation of bid documents and bid evaluation for the procurement of the equipment
for the constructed facilities dominated the focus of supervision missions.
6.14         Reduced Expectations. In the context of this assessment, it is important
to note that both Bank and Borrower expectations for the project were steadily and
appropriately scaled down as the difficulties of completing the civil works program
continued and awareness of the limited influence that either Pusdiknakes or Pusdiklat could
have on decision making within the program units at MOH grew. By 1990, a supervision
mission concluded that important issues of employment and training in the health sector
and management and institutional issues would remain unresolved and could not be
addressed within the framework of the project.
6.15         From 1990 on, the the Bank and the borrower concentrated on taking the
necessary steps to complete the construction program, assure that the facilities were
equipped, and the use of technical assistance put in place to assist the Project Secretariat
in the implementation of the fellowship program. In the end, the project results were
broadly consistent with the limited, input-oriented nature of its original design, which
focused exclusively on the provision of inputs for the development of training capacity,
with essentially no attention to perhaps more significant elements of health workforce
policy.
7. Sustainability
7.1         It is perhaps not surprising, given these results, that the project produced
limited sustainable achievements. Improvements in the macroeconomic environment and
in the allocation of resources to health suggest that the Government will not have difficulty



- 23 -
in sustaining the recurrent costs of the schools, academies and in-service training centers
that were established through the project. But the project's failure to significantly alter the
institutional arrangements which govern health manpower policy making, or move beyond
identification of some of the constraints to improved management of training institutions
limit its effectiveness. It is perhaps appropriate that the Bank and the Borrower decided,
during the last stages of project implementation, to defer efforts to address broader issues
of how best to develop the health workforce to later discussions.
7.2          At the same time, the project, despite its very serious limitations in both
design and implementation, did contribute to the Ministry of Health and Bank's
understanding of the importance of health manpower issues to overall sectoral
performance. The project did, however, stimulate a commitment on the part of the Bank
and MOH to work toward developing a more sound conceptual and operational approach
to the development of the health workforce.
8. Bank Performance
8.1          The overall design of the project was the major weakness in the Bank's
performance. In making this assessment, it is important to note that this project occurred
very early in the development of the Bank's operational experience in the health sector
generally and in Indonesia in particular. The input orientation of the project design was
typical of the time, and reflected limited experience within the Bank in the design and
implementation of successful institutional development projects. The absence of a clear
evaluative framework for assessing progress appears in retrospect to have been the most
significant flaw in the project design.  It is possible that more intensive efforts to define
the desired project outputs and outcomes during the preparation process may have led to
a more positive result.
8.2          Formal and informal Bank supervisions were carried out twice a year as
would be considered normal for a loan of this type. Supervision missions exercised
considerable flexibility, as evidenced in the efforts to improve project implementation
through two amendments in the loan agreement, and to be responsive to Government
requests to extend the loan to allow completion of project activities. In retrospect, it might
be reasonable to question whether this flexibility was excessive. It is striking, given the
overall record of project performance, that no supervision mission recommended or
suggested that the loan be canceled. Project ratings were consistently low throughout
project implementation, and a suggestion to consider cancellation of the loan may well
have been appropriate.
8.3          Supervision missions also appear generally to have been suitably staffed with
a mix of expertise. At the same time, as detailed in Part III, it is noteworthy that the
project made relatively greater use of health specialist skills early in the implementation
period, and of more seasoned specialists in operations and implementation in later years.
A reversal of this skill mix, with greater use of senior operational staff early on in the
implementation period may have improved performance.  The relative absence of
discussions of broader aspects of sectoral performance suggests that linkages between the



- 24 -
supervision of this project and other elements of the Bank's health and population portfolio
could have been more effective.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1          GOI's performance in managing the project is best evaluated in two phases.
During the first, from appraisal through the first amendment of the loan, the project was
managed on a part time basis by the Directors of two newly established units of the
Ministry of Health. Performance during this period reflected the difficulties of managing
a project on a part time basis, as well as the inexperience of the Borrower in the
management of a project of this size. The Borrower did, however, move to adjust these
arrangements following the 1987 review and the amendment of the project, and put the
necessary arrangements to establish a Project Secretariat into place.  Following the
establishment of this Secretariat, performance on the administration of the project,
maintenance of project accounts and disbursements improved significantly and can be
judged to be successful. The limitations of the project results appear to be attributable
primarily to gaps in the general project design, responsibility for which rests with both the
Bank and the Borrower.
10. Lessons Learned
10.1         Several lessons can be drawn from the implementation of this project.
These are include the following:
Design Requires Substantial Sectoral Knowledge. In retrospect, it seems
that the problems of the project grew out of the limits of the Bank's
understanding of the health sector in general and health manpower issues in
particular at the time of appraisal.  The design of the project, while
consistent with health planning and project design principles current at the
time, showed little recognition of the organizational and institutional setting
in which the project would be implemented.  The project's dominant
concern with improving production capacity also reflected limited
understanding of the performance of the health facilities that were to be
staffed by the products of this investment.
*     Need for Analysis of Affordability. In a closely related vein, the project
was appraised with very little attention to the capacity of the Government
to provide the counterpart funds necessary to assure timely implementation.
Although the shocks to the external economic environment could not have
been anticipated by the appraisal team, sensitivity analysis of the levels and
trends in health expenditures in the public sector may have been helped to
avoid the devastating impact that the drop in counterpart funds had on
project implementation.
*     Assigning responsibility for project management to the targets of
institutional development risks delay in the use of project resources, and
can overwhelm the target agency. In this case, it seems clear that the both



- 25 -
Pusdiklat and Pusdiknakes, neither of which existed prior to the project,
needed to concentrate their institutional and managerial resources on
developing their basic organizational capacities.  Moreover, as new
institutions, it would appear likely that both would have benefited from
more experience in the management of external finance before becoming
responsible for a project of this dimension.
Early Identification of TORS and Selection Procedures for Technical
Assistance.  This project demonstrates that inattention to the specific
objectives of technical assistance can lead to lengthy delay in securing these
resources, and consequently in disappointing outcomes.  In this case, the
appraisal report was largely silent on the purposes of the technical assistance
to be contracted through the project, referring generally to expectations that
it would assist in organizational development and improved management and
planning. Once the construction program was back on track, however, the
work of agreeing more specific terms of reference and securing qualified
assistance to fulfill them was undertaken with relative success. Greater
attention to planning these inputs prior to appraisal would have improved
the overall performance of the project.
*     Need for an Evaluative Framework to Assess Project Progress. Last,
the absence of an evaluative framework, integral to the clearest project
appraisal, appears to have constrained project performance. The example
of this problem in the present case was the absence of a discussion in the
appraisal of what specific improvements were expected in the project's
general objectives ("expanding the output and improve the quality of
manpower"). In the absence of this specification, little attention was put on
a review of whether the project objectives were appropriate to health sector
needs and reinforced the supply-side bias of the orientation of the
underlying approach to health manpower policy. The appraisal also lacked
a format, in either the SAR or its working papers, which would assist Bank
and Borrower management to assess progress toward the project's
institutional goals.



- 26 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW AND BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1         Data related to the project activities presented in Part III of the PCR are
adequate and appropriate as mostly derived from project documentation collected by
participation of the consultation with officials from all projects components and
institutions. Thorough discussions with those officials have been also held during field
visits.
Project Preparation and Design
2.2         In general the Staff Appraisal Report has provided a comprehensive picture
of the nature of the project and guided the project management for right project
implementation. The project was prepared through discussion and interview involving all
relevant components of Ministry of Health, such as Bureau of Planning, Pre-Service and
In-Service Education and Training Centers, Bureau of Personnel, Directorates of Nutrition,
Health Center Development, Family Health of the Directorate General of Community
Health, Directorate General of Medical Care, Health Settlement Environment of the
Directorate General of Communicable Disease Control. Bappenas directed and advised
the Depkes and the Missions in the preparation of the project in terms of planning and
budgeting policies and Ministry of Finance was involved in the discussion on the financial
aspect. Other units were also contacted to obtain more information and accurate data for
this preparation.
2.3          The actual needs of Depkes were considered especially the programs related
to the paramedical manpower development, which was the major issue in anticipating
problems faced in the Pelita IV (four to five-year development plan).  Better health
delivery services would be achieved through increasing the number and improving the
quality of the health manpower. Consequently strengthening education and training of
health personnel were quite right to become the focus of this project.
2.4         Considering the Financing Plan table in the Staff Appraisal Report we
observe that US$28.8 million or 68.71 percent of the loan has been allocated for civil
works which is regarded as too much compared to the allocation of the US$5.5 million or
14.10 percent for furniture equipment and materials, and US$1.00 million or 2.56 percent
for group educational activities.
2.5         Although buildings for education and training facilities were urgently
needed, proper allocation for equipment and group educational activities would help faster
improvement of the quality of the new graduates and existing paramedical manpower.
Based on past experience a project period of 4 years might be too ambitious if not assured
by further assignment of experienced staff in similar World Bank projects management,
for handling the project.  The need for in-country fellowships was overlooked but
fortunately corrected during project implementation.



- 27 -
Project Implementation
2.6         Although there was a substantial delay (September 89 - April 93) in project
completion the major objective and targets of the project has been achieved and about
99 percent of the loan has been utilized. Compared to the financing plan stated in the SAR
where 60 percent of the total project costs would be from Bank loan, the project
implementation indicated that the sharing was 61 percent loan and 39 percent GOI funds.
Civil Works
2.7         Construction of new buildings or rehabilitation of old ones for education and
training institutions have been completed. However, the number of institutions to be built
or rehabilitated has been reduced. The reduction of the amount of civil works was caused
by the need for more equipment and training has been realized. This was also due to the
fact that GOI revenue was decreasing due to the drop of oil prices starting in 1985. The
GOI was then unable to provide adequate funds for the 40 percent counterpart budget for
civil works.
2.8         Therefore the increase from  60 percent to 76 percent loan funds for
financing civil works category was very helpful and very much appreciated. Also the
reallocation to more loan for educational equipment and group educational activities was
very useful in improving the quality of education and increasing the dynamic of the
teachers, trainers and students.
Educational Equipment
2.9         Notwithstanding the lengthy process of procurement, the project schools
were very pleased that finally educational equipment could be provided. The absence of
an expert in educational equipment selection and specification and the insufficient
understanding of the procurement committee members and related personnel in the World
Bank Guidelines for ICB were the main reason for the delay in procurement.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
2.10        With regard to the provision of technical assistance and fellowships it was
highly appreciated but it would be better if the project could start at the early stage of the
project period. This was indeed difficult as project management was handled by people
not having much experiences in managing similar World Bank Project activities.
2.11        There was not much time left during the project period for making follow-up
to the findings and recommendations of the consultants. The concept of multistream
academies was not clear while the consultants did not have time to develop and implement
a model for that purpose.
2.12        The designated selected centers has started its activities to lead similar
schools but the criteria for designating selected centers need to be revised. A selected



- 28 -
center model has been formulated by the consultant but again no time was available to
implement the model fully.
2.13        The provision of overseas fellowships was very much appreciated. However
the selection of fellowships candidates was rather in a hurry and many teachers should
leave the school at the same time as they did not want to loose the opportunity to join the
overseas training. The benefit of the custom designed overseas training could not be
evaluated in terms of improvement in academic knowledge but new ideas obtained through
close contact with foreign education systems might enhance better quality of teaching
process in the future. The in-country fellowships training which was not included in the
original plan has given opportunity to more teachers without proficiency in English to
improve their knowledge.
Project Management
2.14        For reviewing the project management we divided the project period into
two phases, the pre-secretariat period from 1985-1989 and the period of 1989-1993 where
a full-time project secretariat was established. During the first period there was no full-
time staff and most of the staff were inexperienced in handling the World Bank projects.
The perceived benefit in having full-time and experienced secretariat staff is:
*     more time and concentration in carrying out the project administration and
monitoring the project activities;
*     less top down planning;
*     more efficient in using financial resources; and
*     more able to find solution in administrative and communication problems
encountered
Bank Performance
2.15        In general, the Bank missions were recognized as qualified. We have
learned a lot from the missions and task managers. However, in some discussions the
change in task managers and mission members could cause delay in responding letters
from the GOI which caused delay in project implementation.
Project Sustainability
2.16        The classes and rooms, the educational equipment, the more qualified
teachers or trainers provided by the project gave a substantial input in speeding up the
institutionalization of the schools and training centers. This, in turn, has made routine
budget available for operation and maintaining the project education and training facilities.



- 29 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
LoanlCredit                                              Year of
trk                        Purpose                  Approval            Status
Health and Nutrition
Cr. 1373-IND         To enhance GOI capacity to formu-    March 1977         Compkted
First Nutrition      late and execute nutrition programs,                    March 1982
Dcvelopment Project   operations, research, manpower
training, monitoring and evaluation
by strengthening and expanding the
existing nucleus of personnel institu-
tion.
Ln. 2635-IND         To improve effectiveness of health   February 1983       Completed
Provincial Health    care services; reduce incidence of                    September 1989
malaria in three provinces; improve
quality and utilization of health
services through improvements in
health centers, referral and outreach
systems and manpower development.
Ln. 22636-IND        Increae the effectiveness and       November 1985       Completed
Nutrition and        efficiency of GOI's nutrition and                        June 1992
Community Project    community health programs through
(a) strengthening coordination and
management of community health
programs; (b) further development of
nutritional surveillance; and
(c) strengthening nutrition manpower
development.
Ln. 3042-IND         To assist GOI improvc the delivery    June 1989          Ongoing
Third Health Project   of health services and raise health
status in two provinces through better
and more decentralized health sector
planning, budgeting and manage-
ment.
Ln. 3550-IND         To (a) enhance programs for child   December 1992         Ongoing
Third Community      survival, safec motherhood and nutri-
Health and Nutrition    tion in five provinces; (b) build
Project              provincial capacity to plan, monitor
and evaluate health and nutrition
services; and (c) strengthcn central
Depkes to providc technical support
to the provincc.
Population
Cr. 300-IND          To (a) assist GOI in the establish-   March 1972         Completed
ment of clinic-based family planning                 September 1981
program in six provinces of Java and
Bali; (b) strengthen BKKBN's coor-
dination capacity; and (c) improve
family planning information and
motivation services.



- 30 -
LoanlCredit                                              Year of
tritk                     Purpose                    Approval           Status
Ln. 1472-IND         To (a) extend family planning pro-     June 1977         Completed
Population 11        gram to ten additional provinces in                     March 1984
Outer Island I; (b) establish contra-
ceptive distribution centers in Java
and Bali; and (c) expand and
strengthen population education and
motivation activities.
Ln. 1869-IND         To (a) expand family planning pro-     lunc 1980         Completed
Population III       gram services to the remaining                        September 1984
provinces; (b) assist GOT to decen-
tralize management of family
planning program; and (c) strengthen
matemal and child health services.
Ln. 2529-IND         To (a) further strengthen BKKBN        June 1985         Completed
Population IV        through completing decentralized                      December 1992
infrastructure in Outer Islands II,
improve field communications,
expand staff, strengthen IEC; and
(b) usist the Ministry of Population
and Environment to perform its
policy and coordinating role.
Ln. 3298-IND         To (a) expand family planning ser-     April 1991         Ongoing
Population V         vice delivery to hard-to-reach popula-
tion groups; (b) enhance acceptance
of long-acting contraceptives;
(c) support BKKBN's IEC, staff
development, research and MIS
activities; (d) promote safec mother-
hood through training and deploy-
ment of villagc midwives safe
motherhood IEC campaigns.



- 31 -
Table 2: PROJECr TIMErABLE
Item               Date Planned            Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification
(Executive Project
Summary
Preparation
Appraisal Mission       October 1984
Loan Negotiations                                                       April 1, 1985
Board Approval                                                          May 14, 1985
Loan Signature                                                          June 18, 1985
Loan Effectiveness    September 16, 1985   November 19, 1985   January 21, 1986
Loan Closing            March 31, 1989          September 30, 1990   March 31, 1993
March 31, 1992
September 30, 1992
Loan Completion         March 31, 1989                                  March 31, 1993
Last Disbursement                                                       June 29, 1993
Table 3: CUMULATiVE EsTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
1986     1987      1988      1989       1990       1991      1992       1993
Apprisal         7.0      20.3      30.8       36.7      39.0         -          -         -
Eatimate
Actual            1.5      1.9       7.0       14.8      19.1       25.2       30.9       37.2
Actual as % of    21       9        23         40        49         65         79         95
eatirmae
Actual as % of   4         5        18         38        49         65         79         95
total loan
Date of Final   June 29, 1993
Disburaement
Comments: 1. In 1990 *greement was anmended, as of December 1990 with cancellation of US$700.0
2. Original Loan Amount was US$39,000.0; cancelled US$700.0.



- 32 -
Table 4: PRoJECF IMLEMENTATION
Description                   Appraisal                    Actual
(PCR Estimate)
1. Pe-service Paramedical
Health Manpower Develop-
ment
1.1 Insttutional Streqthening
Organizational capability.  Project provides 168      Association of Canadian Com-
foreign and 24 local man-   munity College served for 24
months of TA services    months, Four long-term
fellowships overseas were
granted and 18 short-term for
staff.
la-Country fellowship                                 7 long-term fellowships.
Curriculum Development.                               Curriculum development has
done, but could not identify
the evidence.
1.2 Strengthenin  of Provincial
Education and Training
Divisions
Overseas taining in manage-  10 ST fellowships two of   Two long-term MPH in
ment, planning, and super-    each of five selected   Management and Planning
vision                      provinces (West, Central,
East Java, North Sumatra
and South Sulawesi)
Se-mnar and workshop.
Local trining.                                        Local training have been
carried out for staff and
including ACT A III (teacher
training)
1.3 Development of Selected     10                        3
Centes and other schools
and acadenies
Overseas taining in pam-    36 long-term fellowships    Overseas: 3 long- and 88
medical technical subject.                           short-term for selected centers
and other schools.
In-Country fellowships                                185 long-term fellows for
Selected Centers and
schools/academies.
Seminar and workshop        In-country seminar and    Completed
workshops



- 33 -
Description                  Appraisal                    Actual
(PCR Estimate)
1.4 Paramedical Schools and
Acadenies
Construction, equipping and   32 buildings of schools  23 buildings completed includ-
furnishing institutions.   and academies, located in  ing 2 rehabilitation in 10
18 provinces.            provinces.
Acquisition of teaching                              Books and teaching equipment
materials and books.                                 and materials purchased for
schools and academies.
Acquisition of vehicles for                          34 operational vehicles for
schools.                                             schools and academies.
2. Strengthening of Pusdiklat
2.1 Technical assistance to
strengthen the Pusdiklat's
organization; National
level.
2.2 Overseas training
Planning and management    8 master degrees for      5 long-term fellowships.
and curriculum development.  pusdiklat staff;
Research, development and    2 doctorate degree for
evaluation                 Staff
Training in Administration,    Short-term: 4 in      10 short-term fellows.
educational technology     admin/mngt 7 in educa-
tional technology
Technical Assistance       48 mammonths of technical
services
35 short- and 3
long-term fellowships have
been granted.
2.3 In-Country fellowships
Seminar and workshops      In-country seminar and    Workshops and seminar have
workshops                been done.
2.4 Strengthening of Regional
and Provincial In-Service
Training Centers



- 34 -
Description                   Appraisal                    Actual
(PCR Estimate)
Experimental, field-based  In community health        Completed, no follow-up
trining.                    development programs to
84 trainers from national,
regional provincial levels;
in community health
management programs to
16 trainers.
Overes taining in public    20 ansster in public health   9 long- and 15 short-term
health education            programs.                 fellowships were granted.
Technical Assistace         18 manmonths of technical  Completed
services for EFBT and
fellowship management.
2.5 In-Swvice Training Centrs
Construction, equipping and   4 national training centers:  10 constructions including one
fumnishing of buildings.    (Cilandak, Ciloto, Lemah   rehabilitation have been com-
Abang and Salaman), two   pleted
regional and two provin-
cial training centers.
Acquisition of teaching                               Books, teaching materials and
materials and books.                                  other audio-visual system and
furniture have been purchased.
Acquisition of vehicles for  8 vehicles for training  11 vehicles have been pro-
training centers.           centers of national,      cured for BLKM/KLKM.
regional and provincial.



- 35 -
Table 5: PROJECr COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs (USS million)
Appraisal Estimates               Actual at
Completion
Local        Foreign        Total         Totalg
Land                       1.85           -             1.85           0.79
Civil works               28.18          7.64          35.82          19.80
Furniture, equipment
and materials              3.58          6.35           9.93          17.65
Technical assistance
and fellowships            0.03          4.61           4.64           5.71
Studies                     -            0.15           0.15           Jb
Group educational
activities (training)      0.87           -             0.87           4.82
Project management          -             -             -              5.70/
Total baseline costs      34.51         18.76          53.26          54.47
Physical contingencies     3.31          1.40           4.71
Price contingencies        5.21          2.67           7.88
Total Project Costs       43.03         22.82          65.85          54.47
/a No breakdown of local and foreign exchange component available.
/b Included in 'technical assistance and fellowships' category.
Lc Includes recurrent costs financed by the government.



- 36 -
B. Project Financing
Planned                                                    Actual at
Sourme               (LnA2542-IND          Revised              Revised           Completion
Agre nat             In 1988)            (iL 1990)          (03/1993)
(USS'OOO)    %      (USS'OOO)    %      (USS'000)    %      (USS'000)    %
IBRD
Expediture Categori 
(1) Civil works               25,900               15,600              15,900              15,050
(2) Materials, furniture and    5,200              12,500              12,600              11.772
equiprnent
(3) Consultantr ervices         2,400
7,900               6,000               5,714
(4) Overeas trining             3,000
(5) Seminars, workshops         1,000               2,000               2,600               3,707
and local training
(5) Projcct mranagemnct           na                 500                  900                 927
(excluding salaries and
allowances
(6) Unallocated                 1,500                 500                 900
Total IBRD                 39,000      59      39,000      59       38.300     59      37,170    68
Government                    26,850      41       26,350     41       26,852      41      17,300    32
Total                        A        La       68S        100      6C51S2    100       54 470   100
a/ In 1988 the Loan Agrececnt was amended, and one rnw category was added, to read: (1) Civil works (76 %); (2) Materials,
furniture and equipment (100/90/65%); (3) Conahtans' ervices, in-country training and overseas fellowships (100%);
(4) Serninars, workshops and local training (100%); (5) Project Managenent (excluding salaries and allowances (50%); and
(6) Urallocated.



Purpose as defined
Studies                                   at Appraisal                             Status            Impact of Study
1. Health manpower development    To assess the financial resourcs required and available    Financial projections    Unclear, ESW
Study                           to achieve the targets of the Bormwer's long-term health   prepared 1986     addressed issues in
manpower development plan through the year 2000.                             1989
2. Review of the functions, status  To establish a plan for the long-term utilization, career  Completed
and long-term role of auxiliary  development and training of auxiliary health workers       July 1989
health workers (pekarya
kesahatan)
3. Impact study of parallel classes    To evaluate the impact of parallel classes on the     Not completed              None
efficiency and the quality of training at the schools and
academics
oW3



- 38 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement                                        Deadline for
Covenants           Description of Covenants       Compliance         Status
Schedule 5, para. 1   Establish and maintain education    03/31/86      In compliance
and training division in West,
Central and East Java, North
Sumatra and South Sulawesi
Schedule 5, para. 2   Designate 10 paramedical schools    12/31/85      In compliance
and academies as selected centers
Schedule 5, para. 3(a)  Develop multi-stream curricula for   -          In compliance
the seven academies and introduce
such curricula for each of these
academies as they begin operation
Schedule 5, para. 3(b)  Establish a policy for multi-stream  04/01/88    Deferred to
paramedical manpower education                    future project
and training
Schedule 5, para. 4   Establish systematic, cost-effective  06/30/86    In compliance
space allocation and design stan-
dards for schools and academies
and in-service training centers
Schedule 5, para. 5   Carry out Part E of the project in     -          In compliance
accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to Bank
Schedule 5, para. 6   Furnish to the Bank the results of  06/30/86      In compliance
the study to assess the financial
resources required and available
for the Borrower's long-term
health manpower development plan
through the year 2000
Schedule 5, parm. 7   Furnish to the Bank the results of  12/31/86      In compliance
the study to review the functions,
status and long-term role of
auxiliary health workers; and
Establish a plan for the long-term  04/01/88      In compliance
utilization, career development and
training of such auxiliary health
workers
Schedule 5, para. 8   Furnish to the Bank the results of  12/31/86 }    Deferred in
the study to evaluate the impact of          }   agreement with
parallel classes on the efficiency           }        Bank
and quality of training; and                 }
Establish a policy for parallel     04/01/88  }
classes



- 39 -
Loan Agreement                                                Deadline for
Covenants               Description of Covenants           Compliance            Status
Schedule 5, para. 9(a)   Acquire all land and rights for           04/01/86        In compliance
eight of 15 schools, academies and
training centers
Schedule 5, para. 9(b)   Acquire all land and rights for the       04/01/87        In compliance
remaining seven schools, acade-
mies and training centers
Section 4.01             Audit reports due within nine             12/31/93        In compliance
months after the end of fiscal year
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES AND MISSIONS
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle    FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  Total
Through apprital  24.2  18.3                                                                42.S
Appraisal              45.9                                                                 45.9
Negotiations            4.0                                                                  4.0
Supervision             2.2  25.3  16.7  20.9   7.8  10.5  11.4  12.5   4.2                138M4
PCR                                                                            0.1   11.7  12.0
Total          24.7  773   2S.3  16.7  20.9   7.8   103   11.4  12.5   4.3   11.7  2233



Month/Year    Duration of   Number of
Mission      Persons               Name                  Specializations
Through
Appraisal
Appraisal            Oct/Nov 84          24            4     Pearce, Lundeberg, Nelson,    Operations/Health
Sinur
Appraisal through
Effectiveness
Supervision              Dec 85           7            7     Williams, Bumgarner,          Health/Operations/
Prescott, Sirrur, Mills,     Economics
Brooks, Krister
Apr 86          2            3      Williams, Bumgarner, Krister   Health
Sep 86         27            3     Williams, Sinur, Sinclair     Health/RA/Architect
Mar 87           8           2      Mahar, Sinur                 Economic/RA/
U,
Operations
Oct/Nov 87         23            4      Shanley, Hunting, Buckley,   Health/Operations
Brooks
Jan/Feb 88         24           4      Shanley, Hunting, Buckley,    Health/Operations
Brooks
May 88           4            1     Shanley                       Operations
Jun 88                       2     Sung, Brooks                  Operations
Mar 89          11           2      Shanley, Buckley             Operations
Sep 89         23            2     Shanley, Iswandi              Operations
Jan/Feb 90         41           2      Hunting, Iswandi              Operations
May/June 90         41            3      Hunting, Martins, Iswandi    Operations
Sept/Oct 90        28            2      Hunting, Iswandi             Operations
Completion               July 93          -            I     Iswandi                       Operations/Health



