CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1368 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated March 2, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 2, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA (hereinafter
called the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" ai "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist Recub-
lic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16'1968 of Romania;
(c) "DIFCA" means the Department of Land Reclamation and
Agricultural Construction in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
industry of Romania;
(d) "ISPIF" means the Design Institute for Land Reclamation,
established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the Council of Ministers
of Romania;


﻿- 3 -
(e) "CELIF" means the Central for the Exploitation of Land
Reclamation Works, established by Decision No. 178/1974 of the
Council of Ministers of Romania;
(f) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(g) "Romagrimex" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, es-
tablished and operating under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, as
amended from time to time;
(h) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved
by Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, ap-
proved by Law No. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to
time;
(i) "State Farm" means any Agricultural State Enterprise
established and operating under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania,
as amended from time to time;
Cj) "Cooperative Farm" means any Cooperative for Agricultural
Production established and operating under a charter approved by
the Second Congress of the National Union of Cooperatives for
Agricultural Production held in February 1972, in accordance with
the principles set forth in Articles 9 and 10 of the Constitution
of Romania, including any subsequent amendments of such charter;
and
(k) "Project Land" means all land which shall be served by
the irrigation facilities constructed or installed under the Project,


﻿including land cultivated by State Farms and Cooperative Farms
and plots given in use to members of Cooperative Farms.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and selected
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on the date set forth, and
up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower may designate the Foreign Trade Bank as
representative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action


﻿- 6 -
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of para-
graph (a) of this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials or
spare parts required for the Project, to be financed out of the
rroceeds of the Loan, and selected by agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower shall be procured in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the princinal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, financial and administrative practices,
as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the Project,
including the procurement of the goods and services required there-
for;
(b) ISPIF shall provide the general engineering services
required for the Project; and
(c) DIFCA shall:
(i) make suitable arrangements for the procurement
of the goods and services required for the
Project;
(ii) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, with ISPIF for the
supply of the general engineering services re-
quired for Part A and Part B of the Project,
and with the appropriate construction organiza-
tions of Romania as required for the civil works
and the installations included in Part A of the
Project; and


﻿-8-
(iii) have overall responsibility for the coordination
of the implementation of the Project and for
the activities of the other departments and
agencies of Romania related thereto.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and ior such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the Project.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary
that:
(a) the irrigation fac'lities constructed or installed under
Part A of the Project will be overated and maintained by CELIF in
close cooperation with the State Farms and Cooperative Farms
cultivating Project Land, and the electri- power facilities serv-
ing the irrigation and drainage facilities constructed or installed
under the Project will be operated and maintained by the competent
electric power enterprises of Romania, and all necessary repairs
and renewals of such facilities will be made from time to time, all
in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering and admin-
istrative practices; and
(b) the cultivators of Project Land will be supplied with
agricultural, technical and advisory services, seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides, agricultural financing and marketing facilities, and
other agricultural inputs, all as required to make optimal pro-
ductive use of such Land.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized under
thp laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth in
this Section will be met.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its opera-
tions and affairs in accordance with appropriate administrative
and financial standards and practices and in accordance with the
Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower re-
presents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on any
of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the lien,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
in the creation of such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if t?e lien shall
be created by law, th-- Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank. an equivalent li n satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in carrying
out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall take such
measures as shall be necessary according to the State Plan of
Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the purposes
of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at
the request of either party exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the re-
quirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views with
representatives of DIFCA, CELIF, the State Farms and Cooperative
Farms served by the Project, and the other agencies concerned of
Romania with regard to the Project, the benefits derived from the
Project, and the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from DIFCA and the other agen-
cies concerned of Romania, and furnish to the Bank, upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and the material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;


﻿- 13 -
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the
Bank within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the Project during such
quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit and examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and the records and documents relating to the Project of
DIFCA and the other departments or agencies of Romania responsible
for the Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than five months after the end of each of its fiscal years, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower), and until the completion of
the Project certified copies of its records referred to in para-
graph (c) of this Section recording the cost of the Project, for
such fiscal year submitted to an independent audit conducted, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditor, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank and the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to


﻿- 1~4 -
the Bank such other information concerning the before-mentioned
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time fur-
nish to each other such additional information as the other party
shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and
services financed ou. of such proceeds, the operations, resources
and expenditures of DIFCA and CELIF, the benefits derived from the
Project and the general status of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either party of its obligations under the
Loan Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Council of Ministers of Romania has approved the technical
and economic indicators for the Project and such approval has become
effective.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that the technical and economic indicators for
the Project have been duly approved by the Council of Ministers of
Romania and such approval has become effective.
Section 7.03. The date June 2, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania
Cable address:                Telex:
AGROBANK                      11622
Bucharest


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA
SI INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By /s/ Nicolae M. Nicolae
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -                   12-10-76
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                4,600,000          100% of foreign
materials and spare                          expenditures and
parts                                        100% of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory
(2) Interest and other        15,400,000          Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on or
before December 114,
1981
TOTAL     60,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentage applicable to Category (1) has
been calculated in compliance with the policy of the Bank that no
proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the
amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item included
in Category (1) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 20 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to provide irrigation and drainage facilities,
erosion control and farm machinery and equipment to serve adequately
an area of about 148,500 ha. situated in the Districts of Ialomita
and Braila, about 100 km northeast of Bucharest, and bounded by the
Calmatui River in the North and the Ialomita River in the South.
The Project will serve about 28,000 ha. under State Farms and about
120,500 ha. under Cooperative Farms, including about 5,900 ha. as-
signed in use to members of the Cooperative Farms. The Project con-
sists of:
Part A:   Permanent irrigation facilities
Construction and installation of permanent irrigation
facilities adequate to irrigate with water extracted
from the Danube River, near km 221/650 (measured from
the Black Sea), about 120,500 ha. under Cooperative
Farms and about 28,000 ha. under State Farms, and in-
cluding:
1.   a floating pumping station, a main canal of about
38 km with a designed maximum capacity of 110 m3
per second, and three fixed pumping stations thereon;
2.   a secondary distribution system consisting of
concrete lined branch and distribution canals,


﻿- 22 -
including four fixed pumping stations, the neces-
sary regulators, bridges, drainage culverts, es-
cape weirs and drops, and about 115 pressure pump-
ing stations;
3.   a network of distribution pipes and hydrants
necessary to bring the irrigation water to the
Project Land;
4.   drainage facilities consisting of about 17 surface
drainage networks together with about 23 pumping
stations serving an area of about 82,350 ha., and
localized subsurface drainage networks serving an
area of about 1,00 ha. including saline lands to
be reclaimed under item 5 below;
5.   reclamation of about 2,600 ha. of saline lands and
about 2,500 ha. of depressions; land levelling of
about 40,000 ha.; erosion control works on about
6,100 ha. and windbreaks to protect about 38,600 ha.
6.   electric power supply works, including 240 km of
20 kV ind 110 kV power transmission lines adequate
to serve the irrigation facilities;
7.   provision of about 400 observation wells to monitor
groundwater levels; and
8.   construction of buildings for operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation facilities.


﻿- 23 -
Part B:   Portable irrigation facilities
Establishment of portable on-farm irrigation systems,
including pipes and sprinklers adequate to irrigate
the Project Land.
Part C:   Farm machinery and equipment
Provision of tractors, harvesters and transport equip-
ment for State Farms and Cooperative Farms and of equip-
ment required for the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation and drainage facilities included in Part A and
Part B of the Project.
*              *            e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1980
through December 15, 1991                     2,500,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.25%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                    7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿-26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International CoMetitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials and spare
parts (regardless of whether the goods to be supplied under such
contracts are manufactured in Romania) shall be procured in accord-
ance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures incidental
to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:


﻿- 27 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Romania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured out-
side Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 28 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragranh (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Romagrimex (or such other Romanian
Foreign Trade Enterprise as the Borrower and the Bank may hereafter
otherwise agree) shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank shall


﻿- 29 -
reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding docu-
ments shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, Romagrimex
or the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as the case may
require, shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and
the respective amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, Romagrimex or the Romanian
Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as the case may require, shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be
awarded and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign
Trade Enterprise concerned, as the case may require, and state the
reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 30 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise concerned, as
the case may require, shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in re-
spect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform Romagrimex or the Romanian Foreign Trade Enterprise
concerned, as the case may require, and state the reasons for such
determination.


