Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14805
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1156-EGT)
JUNE 30, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Egyptian Pound (LE) = 100 Piasters = 1000 Miliemes
Exchange Rates
(Egyptian Pound per US Dollar)
Official                 Market
Period                         End of Period            Period Average
1981
1982                                                       0.7000
1983                                                       0.7000
1984                             0.7000                    0.8317
1985                             0.7000                    1.3009
1986                             0.7000                    1.3502
1987                             0.7000                    1.5015
1988                             0.7000                    2.2129
1989                              1.1000                   2.5171
1990                             2.0000                    2.7072
1991                             3.3000                    3.3000
1992                              3.3303                   3.3303
1993                             3.3465
1994
Fiscal Year
July I - June 30
Measures and Equivalents
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m or 2.471 acres
List of Abbreviations
AWGA         -      Alexandria Water General Authority
AGOSD        -      Alexandria General Organization for Sanitary Drainage
BWC          -      Beheira Water Company
COAA         -      Central Organization for Accounting and Audit
EDI          -      Economic Development Institute
GOE          -      Government of Egypt
GOGCSD       -      General Organization for Greater Cairo Sanitary Drainage
GOGCWS       -      General Organization for Greater Cairo Water Supply
GOPW         -      General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD        -      General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
HPC          -      High Purchase Committee
MHPU         -      Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities
MOIC         -      Ministry of International Cooperation
NOPWASD   -         National Organization for Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage
NWPP         -      National Water Pricing Policy
ODA          -      UK Overseas Development Agency
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
SCA          -      Suez Canal Authority
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
WHO          -      World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
June 30, 1995
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Egypt
Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project
(Credit 1156-EGT)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Egypt - Beheira Provincial Potable
Water Supply project (Credit 1156-EGT. approved in FY81) prepared by the Infrastructure
Operations Division, Country Department 11, Middle East and North Africa Region (Parts I and III).
Part 11, contributed by the implementing agency, the National Organization for Potable Water and
Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD) and the Beheira Water Company (BWC), presents two additional
views of project accomplishments and difficulties.
The project focused on assistitig the Government of Egypt (GOE) with its plans to
decentralize management of the water supply sector. It aimed at providing relevant staff training;
improving cost recovery and financial policies in the sector; and rehabilitating and expanding water
supply facilities (partly cofinanced by the Government of France) in Beheira Province. Project
efficiency was unacceptably low and it took 13 years to complete, 7 years longer than expected,
with over 60 percent cost overruns.
The project's physical achievements were substantial; the facilities were renovated and
expanded and water supply service was successfully upgraded from intermittent to continuous in 90
percent of Beheira Province. The GOE's creating of BWC as a decentralized entity was successful.
The effort to refonn cost recovery policies, although limited to recurrent costs, was successful in
Beheira, but has not yet been fully implemented nationwide. This is particularly true for water use
at standposts where users, about half of the population served, continue to expect free water.
Arrears due from Local Councils for this service represented 63 percent of BWC's receivables by
end FY93. The objectives of staff training were largely met.
In the future, programs of this size and complexity should be implemented in stages; first
focussing on capacity building and rehabilitation, followed by an investment stage.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and its institutional development
impact as modest. The sustainability of project benefits is rated as unlikely in the absence of real
improvements in the collection of arrears.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality although it does not contain comments by the cofinancier;
it provides an adequate discussion of implementation experience, but presents a rather sanguine view
of project results.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFtFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEIIEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Title                                                                                          E  No.
PREFACE   ...................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........................................  ii
Objectives ...............................................   ii
Implementation Experience .....................................   ii
Results ................................................   iii
Sustainability  ............................   iii
Findings and Lessons Learned ..................................    iv
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK/IDA'S PERSPECTIVE   ..............   1
Project Identity ............................................   1
Background  ..............................................   1
Sector Development Objectives  .............................   2
Policy Context  .......................................  2
Linkages between Project and Macro Policy Objectives  ..............  3
Project Objectives and Description ................................  4
Project Objectives  .....................................   4
Project Description .................. 4
Project Design and Organization  .................................   5
Project Implementation  .......................................  6
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up  .......................   6
Implementation Schedule . .......................... 6
Procurement ...........................   7
Project Cost ...........................   8
Disbursements ...........................                                           8
Credit Allocation  ...........................   8
Credit Extensions and Closing ............................ 8
Project Results  ...........................   9
Project Objectives  ...........................   9
Physical Results ...........................   9
Financial Performance ..........                 .................   9
Impact of Project ...........................   9
Rate of Return  ...........................  9
Project Sustainability  ...........................  10
Bank/IDA Performance ...........................  11
Borrower Performance  ...........................  11
Beheira Water Company Performance ...........................    12
Financial Performance ..........                  .................  12
Operational Performance  ................................. 14
Project  Relationship    .........................................   15
| This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Consulting Services and Contractors ........... .  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  .. ..  .    .  15
Project Documentation and Data  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .    .  15
Findings and Lessons Learned ..............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...      .  15
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ..... .                    .  .  .  .  .    .  17
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .............................. 29
A. World Bank Statistical Data .................................. 29
Attachment 1 -       Related IBRD Loans/IDA Credits .29
Attachment 2 -   Project Timetable .30
Attachment 3 -   Status of Covenants .31
Attachment 4 -       Total Supervision Completion Cost .32
Attachment 5 -   Mission Data .33
Attachment 6 -       Credit Disbursements by semester .34
Attachment 7 -       Category allocations and Final Disbursed Amounts
(in SDRs)  ............................ 35
B. Project Implementation Data             .................................  36
Table 1       -      Project Completion Cost ...... ..          ........... 37
Table 2       -      Damanhur Regional Training Center Training
Program (1992-93) ........ ..           ............. 38
Figure 1      -      Implementation Schedule  ...... ..         ........... 39
C. Beheira Water Company Data  ..............                .................. 40
Annex  1      -      Income Statements ........ ..          ............. 42
Annex 2       -      Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds
(FY86-93)    ............. ............... 43
Annex 3       -      Balance Sheets (FY85-93)  .......          ........... 44
Annex 4       -      Selected Operational and Financial Parameters
(FY85-93)  . .35
Annex 5       -      Analysis of Accounts Receivables ............. 46
Annex 6       -      Tariff Structure  ....................... 47
Annex 7       -      Population Served  ....................... 48
Annex 8       -      Number of Permanent Employees .............. 49
Annex 9       -      Total Length of Network and Number of
Artesian Wells   .               .50
Annex 10      -      Total Water Production per Quarter and Year
(FY83-93)    ............................   51
Annex 11      -      Number and Capacity of Water Treatment Plants  ... . 52
Annex 12      -      Projected Service Population and Water Demand  ... . 53
Annex 13      -      Water Quality Data  ......... ............. 54
Chart 1       -      Organizational Chart .......... ............ 58
Map IBRD No. 25860



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1156 - EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply
Project in Egypt, for which Credit 1156-EGT in the amount of SDR 46.1 million was approved on
June 2, 1981. The credit was closed on December 31, 1993. No credit proceeds were cancelled and
the last disbursement was on May 26, 1994.
This PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Country
Department II, of the Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower and Beneficiary (Part 11).
Preparation of this PCR was initiated during the last IDA project supervision mission in
November-December 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development
Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower;
and internal IDA memoranda.






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1156-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the project were: (i) to assist the Government of Egypt (GOE) with
its plans for decentralizing the management of the water supply sector; (ii) to provide infrastructure
for the provision of sector personnel training; (iii) to assist GOE in formulating a sound policy for
introducing cost recovery; and (iv) to test, on a pilot basis, an innovative approach to regional
management of water supply services.
Implementation Experience
2.    The project was closed on December 31, 1993, after four extensions totalling seven years.
The project will take more than thirteen years to implement (or by early 1995 when the last two
water treatment plants will be commissioned). The main reasons for the protracted implementation
are: (i) over-optimistic assumptions made during the premature project appraisal; (ii) conflicts
between country procurement regulations and Bank procurement guidelines; (iii) inexperience of the
implementing agency in managing large and complex projects; (iv) shortage of local funds; (v)
default of local contractors; and (vi) Government restrictions for hiring foreign consultants and
importing materials and equipment. Although the project could have been implemented in eight years
as one package, it would have been more effective if it was carried out in two stages due to country
economic and institutional limitations. The first stage should have included most of the rehabilitation
works. Such works could have been implemented at a lower investment cost and benefits would
have been derived earlier yielding acceptable economic and financial rates of return. The second
stage should have included the major new works which required higher investment and more time
to design and implement. It should be mentioned that GOE during the same period was undertaking
major investments in the water and wastewater sectors in Cairo and Alexandria which placed a major
burden on fiscal resources. Given the low level of resource mobilization within the overall sector,
it would have been better for the Government if it had scaled down fiscal demands for this project.
3.    The main procurement issue was the tendering of contract No. 4 for the construction of four
new water treatment plants (para. 5.5). The contract was split into two groups: one financed by
IDA which had to be retendered, and the other financed by the Government of France. The
procurement issues caused a delay of more than three years, pushing the completion date to early
1995. Other procurement issues associated with conflicts between Bank/IDA procurement guidelines
and Egyptian procurement regulations were satisfactorily resolved with only minor delays.
4.    The final project cost is estimated at $197.97 million equivalent (or LE 317.65 million
equivalent) as compared with the appraisal estimate of $118.38 (or LE 82.87 million equivalent).
The cost overrun in dollar terms is estimated at about 67 percent. However, the same cost overrun
expressed in LEs is estimated at 283 percent. The main reasons for the cost overrun are: (i) project



- iii -
implementation delays; (ii) additional rehabilitation and extension works; and (iii) depreciation of the
Egyptian Pound (para. 5.7).
5.    IDA  credit was fully disbursed on May 26, 1994 in accordance with disbursement
applications received within four months after credit closing.
6.    Annual audit reports of project accounts from the National Organization for Potable Water
and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD) were often received late. However, audits of the Beheira Water
Company (BWC) accounts were received in a timely manner.
Results
7.    The project met its objective of assisting GOE in decentralizing the management of water
supply services as BWC has become a semi-autonomous water company. Although BWC would
benefit from further strengthening of its operational and management capabilities, it has managed to
substantially improve the water supply services to most of Beheira's inhabitants. The Damanhur
Regional Training Center established under the project has contributed positively to improving the
quality of training. More than 2000 water industry workers have received training in the last two
years under a program financed by USAID. The policy dialogue maintained during project
implementation led GOE to issue a National Water Pricing Policy (NWPP), in which NOPWASD
played an instrumental role. According to the NWPP approved in May 1985, 100 percent of the
operation and maintenance costs (O&M) should be recovered by 1991 (para. 2.9). BWC is the only
entity that has met this objective as its water tariff is the highest in the country and exceeds the
NWPP's guidelines. Based on this policy, BWC has been able to meet the financial covenant under
the Project Agreement (para. 10.3).
8.    The project also substantially met its objective of improving the water supply coverage and
quality in Beheira Governorate.  The rehabilitation program  (network and treatment plants)
implemented under the project has substantially improved BWC's operating efficiency. The four new
water treatment plants will increase BWC's production capacity to meet projected water demands for
the entire governorate at least to the year 2000.
Sustainabilitv
9.    The project made substantial progress in providing adequate water supply to about 90 percent
of the Beheira governorate. It improved BWC's operating efficiency by reducing unaccounted-for-
water through rehabilitation and upgrading existing water supply and distribution systems. Also, it
supported the establishment of the first water company in the country which has demonstrated the
feasibility of decentralizing the management of the water sector. Although further institutional
reforms are necessary to strengthen the management of water companies, the project has provided
the foundation upon which such institutional reforms can be built. Project sustainability is enhanced
by the relatively high level of cost recovery of BWC compared to other entities in the sector.
However, BWC was entirely dependent on the Government equity contributions for financing its
investment (the project), which were exceptionally high given the objectives of the project. With
the completion of the project, BWC's annual investments are expected to stabilize in line with normal
growth; BWC's challenge will be to internally generate adequate cash surplus to ensure more
sustainable self-financing potential at BWC (para. 10.3). The project also established the needed
facilities for providing technical and administrative training of water and wastewater personnel.



- iv -
10.   The project also supported GOE in strengthening the central organization, NOPWASD, for
sector planning, policy coordination, and implementation. Although more efforts are necessary to
consolidate and rationalize NOPWASD's role and functions, the project did alleviate the problems
caused by a lack of sectoral coordination which was revealed in the 1977 WHO/IBRD sector study.
Also, NOPWASD, to some extent, has provided support to local governments in developing their
planning and implementation capabilities in the sector.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.   The main findings and lessons learned are the following: (i) projects should be sized in stages
which can be realistically implemented in less than six years; (ii) project appraisal should be carried
out when design and tender documents have been completed and tenders for at least the main
components have been received; (iii) complex projects which include creating new entities and/or
restructuring existing ones, particularly when such agencies will be responsible for project
implementation, should allow sufficient time for such institutional changes to be in place prior to
project appraisal; (iv) project preparation should cover a review and assessment of: (a) local
procurement legislation and procedures; (b) demands from sectoral projects on fiscal resources which
would affect timely disbursements from Government; (c) capabilities of the local construction
industry; (d) local procedures of concerned agencies that would issue construction permits; and (e)
rules, regulations and procedures of the implementing agency; (v) ensure that staff of the
implementing agency, in addition to Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff, who would be
responsible for procurement and disbursement approvals, become acquainted with the project and
Bank/IDA guidelines and procedures; and (vi) institutional capacity building of regional water sector
agencies (BWC in this case) would be greatly enhanced if such agencies are made responsible for
project preparation and implementation (to also ensure ownership and accountability).






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1156-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK/IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identitv
Project Name:                          Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply
Project
Credit Number:                         1156-EGT
Regional Vice President Unit:          Middle East and North Africa
Borrower Country:                      Arab Republic of Egypt
Sector:                                Water Supply
Implementing Agency:                   National Organization for Potable Water and
Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD)
Beneficiary:                           Beheira Water Company (BWC)
2.    Background
2.1    General. Egypt's population has increased from about 40 million in 1980 to about 55 million
today. Except for Greater Cairo, Alexandria and the Suez Canal Cities where the water supply and
wastewater disposal systems are satisfactory in terms of coverage and quality of service, the
provincial areas of Egypt continue to suffer the same problems which plagued the big cities ten or
more years ago. Although moderate improvements have been made in the 1980s with donor
assistance, most systems continue to provide poor water quality and experience failures due to poor
construction, lack of maintenance and inadequate management. Many people continue to use polluted
and often unpalatable sources of water such as irrigation canals and shallow wells.
2.2   When the Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project was conceived in 1980, Egypt's
water supply systems were decentralized. In the main urban centers such as Cairo and Alexandria,
they were owne(i and operated by water authorities (Alexandria Water General Authority - AWGA -
and General Organization for Greater Cairo Water Supply-GOGCWS); in the Suez Canal cities (Port
Said, Ismailia and Suez) they were owned and operated by the Suez Canal Authority (SCA); and in
the rest of the country, the water supply system consisted of: (i) eleven regional systems built and
operated by the General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) serving numerous towns, villages
and rural communities, mainly in the Nile delta provinces; (ii) 115 municipal systems in the larger
provincial towns which were owned and operated by the respective municipalities; and (iii) about
1250 rural water supply systems mostly relying on boreholes or wells owned and operated by the
governorate housing directorates serving those areas not covered by municipalities or GOPW.
2.3   Water supply systems operated by municipalities and GOPW accounted for about 60% of
production. Although municipalities collected revenues from their systems, most of the rural water
supplies (standpipes) were provided free. Only about one-third of the total operating cost was
recovered by municipalities and GOPW, and revenues were transferred to the Central Government.
Although GOE continues to finance investments and subsidize operations, its transfer resources are
inadequate for proper operation and preventive maintenance.



- 2 -
2.4    Wastewater collection and disposal systems consisted of 17 municipal systems of which
Cairo's and Alexandria's were by far the largest. They were owned and operated by the General
Organization for Greater Cairo Sanitary Drainage (GOGCSD) and Alexandria General Organization
for Sanitary Drainage (AGOSD), respectively. In provincial Egypt, design and implementation of
sewerage systems were the responsibility of the General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage (GOSSD), now NOPWASD, with headquarters in Cairo. Operations of such systems,
however, were the responsibility of local governments. In the Suez Canal cities, such systems were
owned and run by SCA.
2.5    Major cities were able to attract external financing for the expansion of their water supply
and wastewater disposal systems. USAID and ODA, for instance, provided assistance to Greater
Cairo for its sewerage system and USAID also supported similar systems for Alexandria and the
Suez Canal cities. Alexandria received World Bank assistance for the expansion of its water supply
system. In contrast, the needs of secondary cities and rural areas received little attention until the
1977 WHO/IBRD Sector Study was carried out. This report highlighted the problems and
deficiencies in water supply and wastewater disposal services in the provinces and led to the
undertaking of further studies. A Credit approved by IDA in December 1977 (Credit S20-EGT) was
used to finance a detailed feasibility study of the water and wastewater sector in the country. The
study revealed the dismal conditions of the sector due to:  (i) fragmentation of operational
responsibility; (ii) poor maintenance and operation; (iii) excessive water losses; (iv) inadequate
investment level; (v) shortage of skilled staff; and (vi) low tariffs and inadequate cost recovery. It
also led GOE to seek financial assistance to address the water supply difficulties in provincial Egypt.
Two projects were identified, one for Beheira governorate financed by IDA (Credit 1156-EGT) and
one for Kafr El Sheikh governorate financed by the Government of Germany. Since then, other
donors have financed water supply and wastewater disposal schemes in provincial Egypt.
2.6   Today, the Cairo and Alexandria water supply systems continue to be owned and operated
by AWGA and GOGCWS respectively, and the Suez Canal cities water supply systems still are
owned and operated by SCA. Three water companies have been established in Damietta, Kafr El
Sheikh and Beheira governorates. Water supplies in secondary cities continue to be run by the
respective municipalities, while housing directorates of governorates are responsible for systems in
smaller cities, towns, and villages. Except for the three above-mentioned water companies and the
establishment of NOPWASD, no major institutional reforms have been introduced in the water and
wastewater sector in the last ten years.
2.7   Sector Development Objectives. GOE's sector development objectives centered on removing
the constraints that hindered the adequate provision of potable water and sanitary disposal of
wastewater for the growing urban and rural population. Priority was given to extending service
coverage and to strengthening the institutional framework to rapidly implement such programs.
Emphasis was also given to rehabilitating, upgrading and expanding existing systems to optimize the
delivery of services. GOE has been able to substantially meet this objective in major urban areas,
but much work remains to be done in secondary cities and rural areas (para. 2.1).
2.8   Polico Context. Aware of the sector development constraints, GOE decided to decentralize
the operational responsibility and in 1977, it began to transfer authority of the urban systems to
municipalities. However, this transfer was not accompanied with the necessary financial resources
and autonomy nor did it allow the municipalities to raise tariffs to generate their own revenue. GOE
recognized that the existence of two national planning sectoral entities, one for water supply and one



- 3 -
for sanitary drainage, resulted in poor planning and coordination. Cities were provided with water
supply without sewerage systems, creating unsanitary conditions. Based on the recommendations
of the sector study (para. 2.05), GOE decided in 1981 to combine both entities under the auspices
of the former Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (now Ministry of Housing and Public
Utilities). NOPWASD was then created to provide assistance to municipalities (except for Cairo,
Alexandria and the Suez Canal cities) and rural areas in the provinces. It became responsible for
planning, designing and implementing new water and wastewater disposal schemes and for
coordinating donors' assistance for the sector. NOPWASD also became responsible for providing
the necessary training to local staff for the operation of water supply and wastewater systems. In
1981, GOE also decided to establish water companies under the Public Company Law (Law 60 of
1971). This was a significant milestone for sector development. The BWC was the first of such
companies established by Governor's Decree No. 198 of 1981. This decision placed the responsibility
of providing reliable potable water systems for the entire governorate under a single entity. Today,
three water companies are in operation in the country (para. 2.06).
2.9   In order to address cost recovery concerns, the Government in 1985 embarked on a new
NWPP under the sponsorship of the Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities and the leadership of
NOPWASD. The Policy established minimum charges for the various categories of services and
called for gradual annual increases in water charges so that revenues could cover 100 percent of
operating and maintenance costs by 1991. The policy also addressed cost recovery of wastewater
disposal services which started charging 10 percent of the water bill in 1985 until all O&M costs
were recovered (no specific date was established to reach 100 percent O&M cost recovery). The
policy also provided for incentives (10 percent of total income) in the form of bonuses to workers
in the water industry.  Implementation of this policy, however, has proved difficult due to the
dismal conditions of most water and wastewater services.
2.10  Sectoral development should focus on decreasing water pollution and improving the quality
of water services. However, sectoral demands continue to escalate and are beyond the management
capability of the present institutional framework. Recognizing the substantial financial and human
resources that are necessary not only to increase the service coverage but also for sustainability of
existing services, GOE is now contemplating the introduction of further institutional reforms. A
number of options were recommended in a Water and Wastewater Sector Study completed by the
Bank in January 1993, and GOE is now studying such recommendations prior to introducing major
policy changes.
2.11   Linkages between Project and Macro Policy Objectives. Reducing fiscal deficits and
protecting water resources from pollution have been two of the main macro policy goals of GOE.
The first objective, however, could not be achieved as long as subsidies to the water and sanitation
sectors continued to increase every year. This situation was further aggravated by two overriding
factors: (i) the increasing demand for potable water which required the construction of new systems
and the upgrading and expansion of existing systems; and (ii) the degradation of water quality due
to water pollution which required the construction of systems for the sanitary disposal of wastewater.
Although the demand for, and expansion of potable water systems was on the rise, the quality of
existing water supplies continued to decline. This condition alone had placed substantial demands
on limited fiscal resources. In spite of the GOE's efforts to address these problems, the conditions
appeared irreversible.  GOE agreed to establish water companies, recognizing the need for
introducing innovative and sustainable institutional arrangements.



- 4 -
2.12  In support of GOE, the subject project was designed to: (i) address the institutional
deficiencies resulting from the fragmented planning of water and wastewater systems at the central
level; and (ii) establish an institutional framework to better manage water supply services in the
provincial areas. The project provided the necessary support to establish NOPWASD and BWC.
NOPWASD was to coordinate the planning and implementation of water supply and wastewater
disposal systems nationwide, while BWC was to serve as a model for the management of provincial
potable water services.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1   The main objectives of the project were:
(i)   to assist GOE with its plans for decentralizing the management of the water supply
sector;
(ii)   to assist GOE in the provision of sector training;
(iii) to improve cost recovery and introduce better financial policies in the sector; and
(iv)   to strengthen management of, and rehabilitate and expand the existing facilities in
Beheira to fulfill the suppressed demand for safe and reliable drinking water while
providing for future growth.
Project Description
3.2   The project at appraisal included the following components:
(a)    Rehabilitation of water distribution and treatment systems consisting of: (i)
implementing leak detection and repairs to the water distribution system in selected
areas of Beheira with serial extensions as required; (ii) upgrading and improving
water treatment plants at Damanhur, Kafr El Dawar, Abo Hommos, Shubra Khit,
Kom El Farag, Buseili, Kom Hamada, Khatatba and Mahmudiya; (iii) providing an
iron and manganese removal plant at Kom Hamada; (iv) providing chlorination
equipment for 70 boreholes; and (v) rehabilitating 106 wells in the central and
southern areas of Beheira;
(b)    Provision of four new water treatment plants at Nubariya, Damanhur, Kafr El
Dawar and Idfina, and extending Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar filtration plants for
a total delivery capacity of 2300 lps, including ancillary equipment;
(c)    Provision of distribution pipes and equipment consisting of: (i) about 250 km of
trunk mains and distribution lines in sizes ranging from 100-700 mm; (ii) 70,000
replacement water meters for urban and rural households as well as for standpipe
supplies, and 16,700 new connections to water meters; (iii) replacement and
rehabilitation of existing standpipes; (iv) five clear water storage reservoirs and
related pumping equipment at Abu El Matamir, Idku, Rahmaniya, Hosh Isa and



Mahmudiya, of which 20,000 cubic meters are at ground level and 3,000 cubic
meters are elevated; and (v) mobile communication equipment;
(d)   Provision of buildings and equipment for BWC consisting of: (i) a headquarters;
(ii) fifteen district operation centers; (iii) thirty staff houses; and (iv) operations
equipment, vehicles and trucks;
(e)    Provision of a regional training center and equipment including boarding facilities
for staff and students;
(f)   Implementation of a health program consisting of educational programs on health
aspects related to the use of water; and
(g)   Provision of technical assistance and training consisting of: (i) consulting services
for design and construction supervision; and (ii) on-the job technical, billing,
collection and general administration training.
3.3   The project was implemented as originally designed, except for the extent of rehabilitation
of, and extensions to, the water distribution network which exceeded the appraisal estimate.
4.    Proiect Design and Or2anization
4.1   The project was designed to address water supply needs in the Beheira Governorate through
the rehabilitation of water supply and distribution systems, the provision of extensions to the
distribution networks and the construction of new water treatment facilities. The project also
included the provision of administrative facilities and a regional training center at Damanhur,
Beheira's provincial capital, to address training needs of the BWC and of other water supply agencies
in the country. The Damanhur Regional Training Center was the first center of its kind in the
country. The project was also designed to assist the newly established BWC in institution building
through technical assistance, particularly on matters of accounting and finance (a computerized
system was included for billing and collection, payroll and accounting) and on technical aspects of
operation and maintenance of new and upgraded waterworks.
4.2   The project was conceived based on the findings and recommendations provided by the water
sector study financed by the Engineering Technical Assistance Credit (S-20), a $2 million credit
approved in December 1977 and closed on June 30, 1980. This study identified both physical and
institutional priority needs of the sector nationwide. Project preparation, however, was financed
through an advance of US$981,800 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) approved by IDA
on July 3, 1980. At the time of project appraisal in October 1980, final design and preparation of
tender documents had not started as the Consultant's contract was signed on October 27, 1980. The
first package of tender documents for the supply of pipes, fittings, valves and chlorination equipment
which had been scheduled for tendering in the fall season of 1981, was actually awarded in May and
June 1983.
4.3   Project implementation was managed by a PIU initially under GOPW and subsequently under
NOPWASD. To strengthen the PIU's capability, one of its senior staff received training at the
Economic Development Institute (EDI) and others were trained on-the-job supported by expatriate



- 6 -
and local consultants. Initially, the PIU was located in Cairo with minor field work participation.
However, this arrangement was changed to expedite project processing in the field.
4.4    Completed works were transferred by NOPWASD to BWC for operation and maintenance.
BWC received on-the-job training through contractors prior to assuming full responsibility of such
works. Generally, such training was adequate as BWC was involved during construction, testing and
commissioning of such works. However, BWC complained in some instances about the inadequate
quality of training. Senior BWC managers received training in the UK following a program designed
by an expatriate consultant responsible for construction supervision. Training was also provided on
financial management and computer technology by the management consultant. Technical training
of BWC staff continues at the Damanhur Regional Training Center.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1    Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The Credit was approved on June 2, 1981, signed
on November 25, 1981, and became effective on April 30, 1982. Delays in Government ratification
of the Credit, however, did not affect the procurement process.
5.2   Implementation Schedule: The project was originally scheduled to be completed in December
1985. Most of its components were completed eight years past the deadline, except for the four new
water treatment plants, two of which are scheduled for commissioning in December 1994 and the
remaining two in March 1995.
5.3   The Credit closing date was extended four times for a total of seven years. The main reasons
for these delays were:
(i)    overoptimistic implementation period (5 years) which was not in line with the size
and complexity of the project and the country disbursement profile (nine years). The
project was appraised too early because design and tender documents had not been
completed. The first contract package was ready two years after appraisal;
(ii)   procurement problems (para. 5.05) requiring the rebidding of a major contract on
the critical path for project implementation resulted in delays of more than three
years; cumbersome procedures and approvals for hiring of consultants financed by
loans or credits delayed the hiring of management consultants for BWC (local
consultants were appointed some six years after project start up); and import
restrictions imposed by Decree 333 caused delays in the purchase of essential
imported equipment and materials. Contractors in many instances resorted to local
purchase of equipment for which specifications had to be revised;
(iii)  contract defaults and financial problems of local contractors resulted in protracted
construction as the implementing agency had to rebid or re-negotiate contracts, or
eventually extend the duration of the contracts;
(iv)   lack of sufficient local funds from the Government resulting in payment delays to
contractors causing not only construction delays, but putting some local contractors
at the brink of bankruptcy (a few contractors went out of business and were unable
to complete their contracts);



- 7 -
(v)    high turnover at NOPWASD's management (Chairmen were replaced almost on
a yearly basis) and PIU staff; the PIU management, although strong initially, became
weak over time due to inexperience of key staff;
(vi)  shortage of financing to cover the foreign cost of major contracts due to cost
overruns requiring the Government to seek other sources of financing (the
Government of France provided financing for the construction of two major water
treatment plants); this condition resulted in a three-year delay due to rebidding;
(vii)  cumbersome and time consuming procedures to obtain construction permits from
other Government agencies such as the Roads Authority, Irrigation and Drainage
Authority and Railways Authority. This condition resulted in protracted construction
and additional cost due to price escalation;
(viii)  delays in acquiring land and rights-of-way for construction of new works;
(ix)   additional rehabilitation and extension work were needed due to the dismal
conditions of existing water distribution networks. This resulted in additional time
and cost for which no provisions had been made at project appraisal (the Government
had to allocate additional fiscal resources requiring additional time for the approval
of such resources); and
(x)    cumbersome and time consuming procedures at NOPWASD for tender evaluation
and contract award and for approval of contract variation orders.
5.4    A summary of the main findings and lessons learned is given in para. 14.01.
5.5   Procurement: Procurement delays were caused partially by conflicts between Egyptian
procurement regulations and Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. This delayed NOPWASD's
approval of tender documents.  Major procurement delays, however, were caused by the
cumbersome procedures at NOPWASD. Evaluation of tenders and recommendations for contract
award made by the PIU prior to obtaining IDA's approval required the approval of the High
Purchase Committee (HPC). At the HPC, deliberations were extended to review the tenders
themselves, making the work of the PIU and its consultants redundant. On several occasions,
contract approval by HPC occurred one year after bid opening. NOPWASD's recommendation to
award Contract 4 for the construction of four water treatment plants was rejected by IDA on the
grounds that the lowest bidder was not responsive due to material conditionalities in the bid. The
Borrower's request for a reconsideration of IDA's decision was declined. Meanwhile, and since the
price of the only responsive bidder exceeded substantially the cost estimate, the borrower: (i)
negotiated a contract for two (out of the four) treatment plants with the "lowest-evaluated" bidder
under separate financing by the French Government (para. 5.10 (iv) below); and (ii) retendered, with
IDA approval, the two other treatment plants, contributing to a three year delay after IDA's decision.
5.6   Other procurement delays were caused by the import restrictions imposed by Decree 333;
NOPWASD and contractors had to spend a considerable amount of time securing import permits.
Also, the Government Decree restricting the hiring of foreign consultants delayed the hiring of the
management consultant for BWC. In the end, IDA agreed to the hiring of local consultants to
provide such services. Although such services were satisfactory, they only covered financial and



- 8 -
computerized billing. Other important aspects which only expatriate consultants would have been
able to provide such as waterworks management, were not provided.
5.7   Project Cost: The initial project cost was estimated at US$118.38 million equivalent of which
52 percent corresponded to the local cost (US$61.78 million equivalent to about LE 43.25 million).
The final cost is estimated at about US$197.97 million equivalent (about LE 317.65 million
equivalent) of which the local cost is estimated at about 70 percent of the total cost ($139.34 million
equivalent or about LE 223.09 million). The cost overrun in dollar terms is estimated at about 67
percent while the same expressed in Egyptian Pounds is estimated at 283 percent. The main reasons
for the cost overrun are: (i) project implementation delays; (ii) additional rehabilitation and extension
works; and (iii) depreciation of the Egyptian Pound.
5.8    Disbursements: The estimated and actual disbursements by semester are given in Attachment
6 of Part III. Due to project implementation delays, the credit was fully disbursed in May 1994.
5.9    Credit Allocation: The initial and revised credit allocations are given in Attachment 7, Part
III.
5.10  Credit Extensions and Closin2: The Credit was closed on December 31, 1993 after four
extensions and a twelve year implementation period (actual implementation will take more than
thirteen years, or by early 1995). At the time of the third extension in December 1987, IDA
approved a six-month provisional extension (to July 1988) indicating that a further extension to
December 31, 1991 (a three-and-a-half-year extension) would be granted provided the Borrower
satisfactorily carried out the following Action Plan:
(i)    by December 1987, GOE to resolve the issue of inadequate annual budgetary
allocations;
(ii)   by January 1988, GOE to resolve the issue of import restrictions (Decree 333);
(iii)  by February 1988, BWC to implement a tariff increase to recover about 70 per cent
of operation and maintenance costs;
(iv)   by February 1988, confirmation of the signing of protocol with the French
Government for the foreign cost financing of two water treatment plants and award
contract;
(v)   by March 1988, award of contract for pipelines in Damanhur and Shubra Khit;
(vi)   by April 1988, GOE to secure commitment from potential donor to finance the
foreign cost of the fourth water treatment plant; and
(vii)  by May 1988, complete the evaluation of offers for the management consultant.
5.11  In July 1988 when IDA approved the third extension, it revised the Credit and Project
Agreement to realign the financial targets with the provisions in the National Water Tariff Policy of
May 1985. The last extension (a two-year extension) was granted in December 1991. It enabled



- 9 -
completion of contracts under execution based on compliance with an action plan designed to
expedite procurement and project implementation as well as improve the performance of BWC.
6.    Project Results
6.1   Project Obiectives:  The project met its objectives of: (i) assisting GOE in partially
decentralizing the management of water supply operations in provincial areas; (ii) improving service
levels through the rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and distribution systems in the
Beheira Governorate; (iii) providing a regional training facility for the sector; and (iv) improving the
financial viability of the water sector in Beheira in particular, and the country in general. The Bank
dialogue on cost recovery and financial viability in the water supply and wastewater sector was
instrumental for the GOE to issue the National Water Tariff Policy (para. 2.09).
6.2   Physical Results: The physical targets of the project were substantially achieved as shown
in Table 1, Figure 1 and Map IBRD No. 25860, Part III. The water supply facilities provided by
the project are adequate to meet the needs of the Beheira Governorate at least through the year 2000.
6.3    Financial Performance: The Beheira Water Company (BWC) which was established under
the auspices of the project, is now a well established organization. Although additional efforts will
be necessary to improve its management, its financial performance is adequate. The financial
statements given in Annexes 1 through 4 show that revenues are adequate to meet operation and
maintenance costs plus a contribution to debt service and for capital investments. Although collection
of Government accounts is in arrears, payments of such amounts by GOE would enable BWC to
finance local expenditures of capital investments. BWC's financial performance will improve
somewhat in 1995 when the new water treatment plants begin delivering more water to meet
suppressed demand. However, meaningful improvements will be observed when GOE settles its
accounts in arrears and pays for future services on a timely basis.
6.4   Impact of Project: The project has made a substantial impact in the urban and rural water
supply in the Beheira Governorate. The level of service improved from an intermittent and limited
service area to a continuous service with a ninety percent service area (a small area in south Beheira
is served by the Irrigation Authority). Water quality has improved to substantially meet WHO
standards (Annex 13, Part III). The Damanhur Regional Training Center has conducted training
programs nationwide with USAID assistance (see Table 2, Part III). Although there is a need to
strengthen the management of BWC, substantial institutional building was implemented through the
project. BWC has developed a reliable computerized billing and accounting system and collection
has substantially improved (except for GOE accounts). BWC water tariffs (Annex 6) are the highest
in the country and its 1993 revenues were adequate to meet O&M costs and a substantial portion of
the debt service (para. 10.03).
6.5    Rate of Return. During project appraisal, no economic or financial rates of return were
calculated since insufficient base data existed to calculate a financial rate of return. When the project
was appraised, it was not the practice in the water sector to carry out comprehensive surveys to
estimate benefits in order to calculate the economic rate of return. Incremental revenues attributed
to the project are often used as a proxy for the willingness of consumers to pay for service from
public utility projects. However, such a proxy understates the true willingness to pay, as well as
external benefits, e.g. benefits arising from improved sanitation, and is more indicative of the
relation between tariffs and incremental costs than the economic justification of the project. The



- 10 -
outturn rate of return based on incremental benefits was negative for this project. Reasons for this
include: (a) water tariffs, which increased by 16% in real terms during the project implementation
period to cover operating costs plus a margin (see para. 10.2), still probably remained below
marginal costs; and (b) the long implementation period of the project resulted in benefits being
delayed after initial capital costs were incurred. Although the financial rate of return was negative,
this does not necessarily imply the economic rate of return was negative. The successful impact of
the project (see para. 6.4) and survey results from other countries which indicate high willingness
to pay for improved water supply, suggest that the project may have had positive economic returns.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1    The project has made substantial progress in the following areas:
(i)    providing adequate water supply to service about 90 percent of the Beheira
Governorate's population on a continuous basis;
(ii)   improving efficiency of operations by reducing unaccounted-for-water through
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing water supply and distribution systems;
(iii)   establishing the first institutional framework for regional (at governorate level) water
supply services under a quasi-autonomous management;
(iv)   establishing a regional training center to build human resource capability nation-wide
for the technical and operational aspects of water and waste water services;
consideration is now being given to expand such capabilities to include managerial
aspects of water and waste water utilities; and
(v)    consolidating under a single agency the policy and planning aspects of national water
and waste water management.
7.2    To enhance project sustainability, it will be essential to ensure BWC's financial viability
through improvements in collection of arrears, particularly of Government accounts, and periodic
adjustments to the water tariff. Also, further efficiency improvements will be necessary by extending
the rehabilitation and upgrading to those areas not covered under the project. And to substantially
strengthen BWC, further institutional reforms, such as corporatization and the provision of technical
assistance on professional management of water works, will be necessary to ensure a well-managed
and financially viable operation.
7.3    As indicated above, substantial improvements to the water sector can only be achieved
through reforming the legal foundation and strengthening the management aspects of such regional
utility companies. Bank dialogue with the Government is now focusing in this area of cooperation
and a sector study completed in 1992 gives specific recommendations in this regard. A possible
project to implement a first phase program is also being considered by Government with Bank
technical assistance.



- 11 -
8.    Bank/IDA Performance
8.1   The Bank/IDA made a positive contribution to the water and wastewater sector in Egypt.
For the first time in the country, project preparation assessed the physical, institutional and legal
aspects of the sector while recommending policy options and a strategy for addressing, on a priority
basis, such concerns. Bank/IDA dialogue with GOE has contributed greatly to addressing issues of
cost recovery. Although national water and waste water tariffs have not yet reached adequate levels
for full financial viability, substantial increases have been introduced over the years through
NOPWASD's intervention (para. 2.09). Bank/IDA participation has also contributed to improved
donor coordination in addressing sectoral issues. Major donors, such as USAID, coordinated with
Bank/IDA during project implementation those aspects of policy and strategy which address
institutional and financial viability of sectoral entities. Bank/IDA staff contributions on technical,
financial and administrative matters of the project and of institution building both at BWC and
NOPWASD, have been positive.
8.2   Perhaps the only aspect of the project on which the Bank/IDA underestimated the implications
of the project was the time frame to carry out such a complex and large program. In retrospect, it
would have been better to have staged the implementation of the program to enable early
improvements in the quality of services and to reduce the financial burden to the Government. Local
currency payments to contractors were often delayed due to fiscal constraints. This was due to the
fact that during the same period, the Government was implementing major water and waste water
works in Greater Cairo and Alexandria. The Bank/IDA, in its interest to expedite project
implementation, appraised the project too early (the engineers were contracted out to prepare design
and tender documents at the time of project appraisal in October 1980). Project preparation failed
to investigate country conditions such as local procurement legislation and procedures, experience
and financial viability of local contractors, and the local procedures to obtain building permits from
concerned Government agencies. Although the Borrower cooperated in addressing these issues,
further difficulties arose due to the Borrower's and bidders' lack of familiarity with Bank/IDA
procurement guidelines.
8.3   IDA supervision of the project was intensive and positively addressed project needs
(Attachments 4 and 5, Part III). The project was restructured at the time of the third extension to
the credit closing date (para. 5. 11). IDA staff intervened on a timely manner at the various stages
to ensure not only expeditious project implementation but quality of construction and supervision by
the Borrower. Staff members were instrumental in ensuring that institutional reforms and upgrading
were implemented and coordinated with other donors in support of the sectoral reforms. For
instance, USAID's financial support to the Damanhur Regional Training Center was actively
promoted by IDA staff and assisted the Government in securing such support. Supervision missions
normally closely followed the training programs and provided timely comments to address issues.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   The Borrower responded positively to the needs of the project. It appointed NOPWASD as
the implementing agency and entered into a subsidiary agreement with BWC as borrower and
NOPWASD as executor of the project. A PIU was established and its staff was trained on project
management. The Borrower appointed as head of the PIU a senior undersecretary of the former
GOPW. Initially, the PIU performed remarkably well considering the size and complexity of the
project. Legislation had to be enacted, a new institution had to be created and two others merged



- 12 -
into one. Additionally, new water works had to be designed and built. In spite of legal difficulties
associated with conflicts between Bank/IDA procurement guidelines and Egyptian procurement
regulations, NOPWASD continuously strived to address such obstacles. Project implementation
delays associated with slow disbursements from the Government to project accounts were primarily
due to the unanticipated burden on its fiscal resources (para. 8.02). NOPWASD also strived to
introduce streamlined procedures to expedite procurement within legal parameters.
9.2    Perhaps the most critical issue which resulted in substantial delays was the constant changes
in the senior management at NOPWASD. Chairmen were replaced almost on an annual basis and
the persons appointed generally were not familiar with the sector. Therefore, important decisions
were often delayed. Similar delays also occurred due to cumbersome internal procedures at
NOPWASD for approval of contracts and of variation orders to contracts which require approval of
the HPC. The legal mandate of the Committee requires its members to thoroughly review tenders
and variation orders and even to verify the most minute details already reviewed by the technical
staff and committees.
9.3    The main lessons learned from the Borrower's performance are summarized below:
(i)    continuity of senior management should be maintained, to the extent possible, during
project preparation and implementation; and, if changes take place, professionals
appointed to such positions should have experience in the sector;
(ii)   staff who will be directly and indirectly involved in the project, should become
familiar with it to better understand their contribution to a successful and expeditious
project implementation;
(iii)   qualified staff who are motivated to participate and learn from the project should be
appointed to PIUs; PIU staff should closely cooperate with the engineer responsible
for construction supervision and management; and senior management should take
a more active participation in the project implementation review including carrying
out field visits to the project to follow-up important issues;
(iv)   adequate government budgets should be secured for the project to ensure timely
payments to contractors; and
(v)    streamlined procedures for project review should be established and all concerned
staff properly instructed to ensure cooperation and timely project implementation.
10    Beheira Water Company Performance
10.1   Financial Performance: BWC's financial statements, including both appraisal estimates (FY
1985-1990)1 and actual results for FY 1985-1993 are given in Annexes 1-5. It should be pointed out,
however, that in 1980 at the time of project appraisal, financial data for water supply operators in
the governorate were not available and the figures given in the appraisal report were based on
1/  For comparison reasons, Annexes 1-3 give appraisal estimates for FYs 1985 onward when BWC started generating meaningful.
audited financial statements.



- 13 -
proforma estimates made by IDA staff. The financial performance of BWC did not match appraisal
plans because the project implementation was substantially delayed. BWC could not benefit from
the new and upgraded works due to the fact that it was a new entity without any experience in the
sector. BWC finances, which were totally dependent on the National Budget at its inception in 1981,
improved considerably in terms of its ability to generate adequate revenues to cover operational cost,
while phasing out Government's subsidy to operations.
10.2  It was recognized during the course of project execution that the SAR's financial targets for
BWC (calling for revenues to cover operating expenses plus the larger amount of debt service and
depreciation) were too ambitious, given, in particular, the financial performance of the rest of the
sector whose revenues covered less than fifty percent of the operation costs and the poor conditions
of the water supply system. The situation was further exacerbated by higher than anticipated
inflation at appraisal, the depreciation of the Egyptian Pound, and lack of improvements in water
service. Meanwhile, the Government embarked in 1985 on a new NWPP, calling for gradual,
annual improvement in cost recovery for the entire sector (para. 2.09). Public sector water utilities
were directed by the NWPP to introduce rate adjustments annually so that their revenues would cover
100 percent of operating costs in 1991. As a result, IDA agreed in 1988 to realign BWC's financial
targets, along those of the NWPP as part of the project restructuring (para. 5. 11). Under these new
covenanted financial targets, BWC's coverage ratio (defined as revenues as percentage of operating
cost, including depreciation) were to increase gradually from its level in FY 1987 (60 percent) to full
coverage (100 percent) in FY 1991.
10.3  BWC did not meet the 1991 full coverage target on time, but its performance improved
considerably after FY1987. Full coverage was achieved in FY 1992. BWC's revenue coverage
level increased to a level of 111 percent in FY 1993 (which also compares favorably with the FY
1985 level of 30 percent). Over the period since the restructuring in 1988, the revenue coverage
reached 103 percent on average. BWC achieved this through a creditable record in annual consistent
tariff increases. Tariffs for metered sales increased by about 30 percent annually between FY 1988
and FY 1993 (about 11 % annually in real terms). More importantly, BWC's average tariff since
the early stage of project implementation (FY1985) increased by a factor of five. The effects of
these high increases were manifested clearly in the levels of receivable accounts which deteriorated
rapidly during the same period (para 10.4 below). In addition, and although BWC performance in
terms of achieving full revenue coverage from its own revenues improved considerably, BWC was
entirely dependent on Government's equity contributions for financing its investment (the project),
which were exceptionally high given the project's objectives (para 3.1).
10.4  Receivables (net of provisions) increased from the equivalent of 9 months in FY 1988 to
about 18 months in FY 1993; they stood at about 26 months in FY 1993, when provisions are not
considered. Although receivables due from private and government consumers stood at an equally
high level (22 months of revenues), receivables from Local Councils for standpipes and charity, and
other organizations previously allocated with free consumption were remarkably high and exceeded
three years of corresponding revenues (see para. 10.05 below). Despite the fact that NWPP abolished
free consumption and considered Local Councils responsible for payments, the Local Councils were
not given sufficient budget allocations to meet those requirements.
10.5  Appraisal plans calling for direct charging to consumers for water consumed at the standpipes
proved to be equally ambitious. BWC was unable to implement the plans as covenanted. The
Government plans for the sector, including BWC, was to keep the local authorities in charge of that



- 14 -
service, mostly because of health considerations. BWC continues to bill the Local Councils on the
basis of consumption estimates. Individual meters for standpipes, furnished by the project, remained
in-operative and were continuously vandalized. Amounts due by the Local Councils represent about
63 percent of BWC receivables by end FY 1993. BWC retains provisions for bad debts equivalent
to 50 percent of the corresponding receivable balances.
10.6  BWC stands a good chance for pursuing more vigorous financial discipline. Now that
BWC's new computerized cost and financial accounting and billing systems are fully operational,
BWC's efforts to improve financial performance should emphasize cost reduction measures in
combination with reasonable annual rate adjustments. The aim would be to generate adequate levels
of cash over time, that would ensure adequate levels of self-financing while help repaying the
subsidiary loan (whose installments are overdue since December 1991). BWC and the GOE should
review the conditions of the subsidiary loan in the light of BWC financial performance and plans.
The new billing and collection procedures in place since 1991 should help BWC reduce the balance
of outstanding receivables from private consumers. Clearly, BWC needs the Government to give
it "Enforcement Authority" to improve collection. Also, BWC should work out with the local
authorities and the Ministry of Finance feasible plans to streamline the billing and collection for
consumption at standpipes and similar locations. This should include additional budget allocations
for the Local Councils to pay for this consumption.
10.7  Operational Performance: BWC's level of service has improved substantially since project
onset. The conditions of the water supply in 1980 were unsatisfactory. Many people who should
have been able to get water from the system were unable to do so and resorted to alternative sources
which were often unsuitable for domestic use.  The service was  generally characterized by
intermittent coverage (inadequate production at low water pressure and high leakage in the
distribution system) and inadequate water treatment (high aluminum residuals and turbidity levels
were evidence of inadequate treatment and poor filtration, and bacteriological results generally
showed high coliform count in treated waters). Today, the number of urban dwellers served with
house connections reached 88 percent of the total urban population and the remaining 12 percent
continue to be served with standpipes. Overall, in 1993, about 46 percent of the governorate
population was served with house connections and the remaining 54 percent were served with
standpipes (Annex 7). Also, the quality of service improved from intermittent to continuous reaching
about 90 percent of the Beheira Governorate (Annex 9 and Map IBRD No. 25860). Production of
potable water increased from about 58.1 million cubic meters per year (MCM/Yr.) in 1983 to about
114.0 MCM/Yr. in 1993 (Annex 10). By mid 1995 when the four new water treatment plants are
placed in service, production will about double which would be adequate to meet the projected water
demand through about the year 2000 (Annex 11 and 12). Water quality generally meets WHO
standards (Annex 13). BWC's staff rate of about 6.5 per thousand customers or connections
(Annexes 4 and 8) is high (international standards for well run companies range from 2 to 4 per
thousand connections) although the size of the service area and the large number of rural
communities served would imply a high ratio of staff to consumers. It should be mentioned,
however, that although the quality of service has substantially improved, additional improvements
are needed in operation and maintenance and overall management. In particular, BWC would benefit
from assistance in the form of a management contract with a private sector water supply company.



- 15 -
11.   Project Relationship
11.1  IDA's relationships with GOE, NOPWASD and BWC were always cordial and assertive. All
the parties always strived to jointly address the project-related issues. IDA management was very
lenient in extending the credit closing date to enable substantial implementation of the project.
12.   Consulting Services and Contractors
12.1   The local and expatriate consultants who participated in the project preparation were retained
by the Borrower to assist in project construction management. The services of the consultant were
satisfactory, in spite of difficulties with the Borrower on payments for price escalation.
12.2   Foreign contractors and suppliers performed well and cooperated with NOPWASD in making
special provisions for payments in local currency in lieu of hard currency, filling the gap in foreign
cost financing. Local contractors required substantial supervision and were generally slow due to
their limited resources and to delayed payments from NOPWASD. Two local contractors tailed to
fulfill their contractual obligations resulting in substantial implementation delays.
13.   Project Documentation and Data
13.1   The Credit and Project Agreements, although adequate in content, were over-optimistic in
expectations of speed and ease of implementation, and in the performance of BWC. The main
reason for the over-optimism was the inadequate project preparation documents. The project was
appraised based on the feasibility study as consultants had not been retained to prepare the
construction documents. Project preparation did not adequately review the country's procurement
laws and procedures, the capability and experience of the local construction industry, and the
requirements for construction procedures and permits issued by other government authorities.
Project preparation did not adequately take into account the legal, political and physical difficulties
a newly established company would encounter. It should be pointed out that BWC did not have
office facilities, had to hire qualified staff and had to develop training programs and management
systems during project implementation.
14.    Findings and Lessons Learned
14.1  The main findings and lessons learned can be summarized as follow:
(i)    projects should be sized in stages which can be realistically implemented in less than
six years each;
(ii)   project appraisal should be carried out when design and tenders documents have been
completed and tenders for at least the main components (those on the critical path)
have been received;
(iii)   complex projects which also include creating new entities and/or restructuring
existing ones, particularly when such agencies will be responsible for project
implementation, should allow sufficient time for such institutional changes to be in
place prior to project appraisal;



- 16 -
(iv)   project preparation should cover a review and assessment of: (a) local procurement
legislation and procedures; (b) demands from sectoral projects on fiscal resources
which would affect timely disbursements from the Government; (c) capabilities of the
local construction industry; (d) local procedures of concerned agencies that would
issue construction permits; and (e) rules, regulations and procedures of the
implementing agency;
(v)    ensure that staff of the implementing agency, in addition to PIU staff, who would be
responsible for procurement and disbursement approvals, become acquainted with the
project and Bank/IDA guidelines and procedures; and
(vi)  institutional capacity building of regional water sector agencies (BWC in this case)
would be greatly enhanced if such agencies are made responsible for project
preparation and implementation (to also ensure ownership and accountability).



- 17 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S AND
BENEFICIARY'S PERSPECTIVE
PART II A THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY. NOPWASD
1.    PREFACE
The Government of Egypt has received a Credit from the International Development Association
(IDA) Credit No. 1156-EGT to finance the Beheira Water Supply Project in the amount of SDR 46.1
million which was approved on June 2nd 1981. The credit was closed on December 31st, 1993. No
credit proceeds were cancelled and the last disbursement was on 25/5/1994.
2.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project aims to achieve a certain level for potable water supply to ensure that every citizen
all around the governorate will be provided during 24 hours/day of quality water. This aim can be
achieved by: (i) minimizing the water leak in the network from 70% before implementation of the project
to 18% upon completion; and (ii) increasing the produced quantity of potable water and extending the
network for the distribution system. The data and the information concerning the implementation of the
project were not sufficient and therefore the consultant Binnie Taylor Egypt was appointed to collect the
necessary data and information regarding the condition of existing services and requirements.
3.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The components of the project at appraisal are detailed in (para 3.2.C of part I). The project was
implemented generally as originally designed, except for the extent of rehabilitation of and extensions to
water distribution network, boreholes which exceeded the appraisal estimate. The project implementation
data and project completion costs are detailed in Table 1, Page 1 & 2, Part lII. The cost for the four
treatment plants [in the table] is estimated and the final cost shall be according to final measurement. The
four treatment plants were scheduled for commissioning in March 1995, for Contracts 4A & 4D and in
March 1995 for Contract No. 48 and June 1995 for Contract 4C.
4.     GENERAL ISSUES OF IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.1  INSUFFICIENCY OF DATA BEFORE THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
- Lack of recent survey drawings for the sites of the contracts because of great increase of
population and urbanization during the period of preparation and execution of the project.
- The various and mnany procedures taken to issue the approval for acquisition for land required
to contract different work.
- Existence of some obstructions on the sites, such as: artificial works, electrical cables,
telephone cables, etc. which delay execution until the respective authorities take the action to remove it.
- The refusal of some authorities in charge of roads, bridges, irrigation and electricity to give
permission for access to their lands which resulted in waste of time and costly alternatives.



- 18 -
4.2    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The project appraisal was too early because design and tender documents had not been completed
which affected the actual cost for the project. Other factors which affected the implementation were:
- The long time taken to award the contracts due to the condition of the credit to get the approval
of the World Bank before awarding; this, in some cases, led to retendering for some contracts many
times.
- The long time taken to open the Letters of Credit (L/C) for supply of imported materials under
the project various contracts.
- Issuance of new governmental regulations which restrict the application of contract to supply
some imported equipment; procurement required during the implementation of some contracts for
material not available in local market took long time for contracting and delivery (for example, some
fittings requested for [contract] C12 from Japan were delayed more than twelve months due to the
Gulfwar which affected transportation facilities.)
- Some contractors failed to implement the contract due to exceptional circumstances that faced
them (finance, experience, etc.)
- Rehabilitation works were very important under this project because of the large area and age
of Beheira governorate's network; the original concept of contract did not allow for the actual cost for
the work required which led to the cancellation of the rehabilitation works.
- The execution of the works should concentrate on the main and pressured pipelines;
rehabilitation in small diameter network can be done by BWC.
- Some contracts could have been compacted according to the area served [in order] to save time
in tendering, evaluation and awarding for each one.
- Lack of sufficient local funds from respective ministry which delayed the payment to the
contract and delayed the project and resulted in costly alternatives.
- The contract amount payable to the contractor [was] increased by the contract price fluctuation
formula which included the changes of the labor cost, automotive diesel fuel price, materials (cement,
reinforced steel, pipes, etc...) and due to the consequent changes of the price for these elements and the
extension of contracts, amounts paid under this clause were very high. The application of the actual
increase of the price directly is better than the fluctuation formula because this increase represent the
actual additional cost payable by the contractors.
- The separation between civil and mechanical works caused implementation problems in the sites
[because of] allocation of responsibilities. The combination of civil and mechanical works under the
responsibility of one contractor removes this problem and speeds up implementation.



- 19 -
5.    CONSULTING SERVICES
The local and expatriate consultants who participated in the project preparation were retained by
NOPWASD to assist in the project construction management. The Consultants' Contract was signed in
September 1982. The Consultant is Binmie Taylor Egypt (BTE) in association with Dr. Ahmed Abdel
Warith. The Consultant made sufficient studies and report; he also prepared all tender documents and
took a major part in tender evaluation. The Consultant was appointed as the Engineer of the project for
supervision.
The tender documents drawings prepared by the Consultant were not detailed enough to further
proceed with work; some drawings in the document cannot be executed because of the subsequent
variations for the sites.
The Consultant's staff designed and estimated modifications and variation orders which took place
during the execution period in co-operation with the Contractor.
All designs and executive drawings were submitted by the Contractor to the Consultant for review
and approval.
The Consultant sometimes took a long time to check the Contractor's drawing and design at
headquarters due to the fact that his design staff was not in Egypt; this resulted in delays in the approval
process due to the delivery of the design and modification requested from the Contractor and lead to
increasing the consultant's costs for the project supervision.
The percentage of the Consultant's services cost to the total amount of the credit represents a big
anount for such services due to the extended time for implementation of the project which cost
NOPWASD the extension for the Consultant further to include the inflation for consultant wages. There
was satisfaction in negotiation between NOPWASD and Consultant regarding inflation costs.
6.    TIE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
6.1  THE BANK PERFORMANCE
During execution of the works the World Bank's follow-up was effective through its missions and
written reports which led to solving the problems and complaints of NOPWASD.
The Bank missions' reports played a major role for NOPWASD to put the correct solution for
the outstanding points raised in the mission aid-memoire which had a positive effect on the
implementation of the project.
By the help of the World Bank missions, studies by the Center of Research & Studies of the
Ministry of Housing and Utilities which was appointed management consultant for Beheira Water
Company were useful and timely; the mission reviewed the consultant reports for BWC services and
introduced useful amendments and suggestions. Appointment of the consultant's local staff facilitated
their help to BWC, [since] this consultant's group had good background with [regard to] Governmental
regulations systems and the communication.
The Bank missions also took the necessary action to extend the validity of the credit more than



-20 -
seven years due to the subsequent extensions of the contracts under the current circumstances; these
extensions, granted four times, totalled seven years.
The Bank missions intervened in timely manner at the various stages to ensure not only
expeditious project implementation but also the quality of construction and supervision.
The missions' dates were intensive and positively addressed project needs (attachment 4 and 5,
Part III).
6.2  THE BORROWER PERFORMANCE
NOPWASD formed a project implementation unit (PIU) for following-up of the various stages
of the project, starting with the signing the contract agreement with the Consultant Engineer (which made
the studies for the primary reports, drawings, and the technical specifications for procurement beside
preparing all tender documents and took part in tender evaluation), until the taking-over of the project.
The project faced difficulties to obtain [sufficient] local currency [funds] from respective
authorities (Ministry of Planning) which led to delay of payment to the contractors; this delay in payment
led also to the extension of time and additional costs due to the increase which took place in calculation
of the contract price fluctuation formula (CPF) due to the long time taken in implementation of the
project.
There has been changes in the PIU staff which had a negative effect on the execution of works.
Approval of variation orders necessary for additional works or cancellation of works was subject
to [approval by] NOPWASD high purchase commnittee; therefore it took some long time to clarify these
variations to the committee with necessary adjustment, modifications before the approval.
NOPWASD did not [spare] any efforts to solve all restriction facing the implementation of the
project (permissions, procurement, Governmental regulations and decree, [affecting] performance of
project, etc.)
7.     LESSONS LEARNED
The project studies and appraisal should [have] taken into account local procurement regulations
and procedures.
The [full] cooperation of the relevant authorities such as irrigation, road, railway, etc. is very
important to implement the project according to plan.
The preparation for [implementing] components of the project should start early by obtaining all
permissions required from different authorities before time, wherever possible.
Implementation of the national pricing policy was very helpful to cover the operation and
maintenance costs.
The project implementation unit (PIU) should include fully involved staff with good knowledge
of Bank/IDA procurement legislation and procedures.



- 21 -
The increasing of prices during execution [due] to the contractor should be according to the actual
change in market prices for materials used not according to a contract price fluctuation formula.
The project should be completely designed before the tendering procedures and the starting of
the execution to minimize the variations and the extension of time and the increase of cost for the project.
The civil and electro-mechanical works must be compacted in one contract.
PART II-B  THE BENEFICIARY, BWC
1.    INTRODUCTION
In accordance with the study made by the World Bank and the World Health Organization to
develop and improve the water utilities; decree No. 198 of the Governor of Beheira to establish the
Beheira Water Company was issued in 1981. This decree granted the Company the right to manage on
its own, to plan for its future expansion, and to carry out its operations according to the most advanced
engineering - financial - and administrative techniques, in order to achieve stability and advance in
managing its projects and also, to achieve balance between revenues and expenditures to achieve the goal
of decreasing the state's participation in subsidizing water production after realizing a fair tariff for water.
Following this decree, the Prime Minister issued Decree No. 1560 for the year 1981 to appoint
a delegate to manage the company. The Government loaned Credit No. 1156-EGT to the company at
an interest rate of 6% to implement the project. The Peoples Assembly approved this agreement on
15/4/1982 and put it into effect on 30/4/1982.
2.    COMMENTS
2.1    Comments on Part I
After reviewing Part I prepared by the Bank which was sent to the Company on 27, 11/1994, the
objectives raised in paragraphs No. 6.1, Part I have been achieved as follows:
Establishing the Company. The project succeeded in gathering all the water utilities in the
governorate under one decentralized authority which is the Beheira Water Company. These used to
follow many administrations in the governorate: local authorities, housing, national water authority and
irrigation.
However, so far, the complete independence of the Company has not been realized. The local
authorities still interfere in determining the water tariff which obstructs furnishing sufficient financial
resources to improve the level of service, to replace and renew networks and plants (stations), to expand
and extend service to areas denied potable water not included in the project, in addition to interfering in
the general policy of the company in determining its priorities according to the plan which agrees with
public interest.
Training Sector. The project succeeded in establishing a training center in the area of potable
water and sanitary drainage which is equipped with all training sets and equipment. However, the
purpose of establishing this [sector], i.e., training workers of the Company on advanced technology



- 22 -
adopted in the new [treatment] plants and operations included in the project, [was not achieved].
The project did not offer the opportunity - to the technical cadres in Beheira Water company -for
training outside of the country. These technical cadres are going to operate and maintain the technology
included in the project, such as: " [Treatment Plants], networks, pumping stations, chlorine inspection
unit; and constructions". This training could have these technical cadres preserve and continue the
operations of this new technology.
Cost Recovery. In spite of the fact that the water tariff applied in the governorate of Beheira is
the highest in the Arab Republic of Egypt, it does not yet cover operating and maintenance costs. This
is due to the high cost of production inputs, i.e., "alum, chlorine, electricity, wages, spare parts,
depreciation of assets", and the interest of the loan.
Supporting Management and Developing a Potable Water System in order to have it safe and
suitable for use. The Contracts of the project included repairing and expanding some existing stations
to improve the quality of the water produced and to increase its quantity. The Contracts also included
some replacement and renewal of networks. However, it was not possible to extend service to all the
areas in the governorate after operating all the stations in Contract 4.
Since the studies for the project planned completion by 1986 to meet the demand of the people
up to the year 1990, the delay that took place in implementing the project on the expected date will make
it necessary to start the stage of expanding the new stations to meet the demand for potable water.
Besides, the projects for replacing and renewal of networks are not fully implemented. Also, the
establishment of safe and capable networks for utilizing the amount of water produced from the stations
has not been done.
In order for the company to carry out its obligations towards ensuring the continuous flow of
potable water to all areas of the governorate - according to the required specifications of the World Health
Organization - and with the suitable rates and amounts, the company will need support froni responsible
agencies to improve its performance and to [maintain] the big investment spent on the contracts of the
projects, by maintaining these projects which requires the following:
A.    To set 5 to 10% of the total value of assets for maintenance purposed and expenses, to guarantee
the full life time of these assets and non-consumption of these assets, and to keep up efficiency
during the period of operation. The company's resources can allocate no more that 0.5% of the
total value of assets for maintenance expenses which is not proportionate by any means to the size
of this big investment. This represents a big obstacle to providing the required suitable level of
service.
B.    To develop the technical experience of workers in the company in both areas of operation and
maintenance. This can be done by [providing] training and the initiation of an extensive training
program about technology in the project and in other areas concerned with the company's
operations. This will help the company fulfill the ideal operation for those units which, in turn
will benefit all citizens of the governorate with good service and the continuation of this service,
and the preservation of the huge investment in a good manner.



- 23 -
2.2    Comments on exWerience gained through execution.
In the Part I of the report, the reasons for long time in execution are stated in para. 2
"Implementation Experience".  Comments on the causes for delay; we would like to indicate the
following:
-      Writing the contracts in English with [no] Arabic version to consult [for] explaining the items of
contract in case of a dispute, and to ease familiarity with conditions of the contract.
-      Insufficiency of local funds lead to slow execution of the stages of the project, and in addition
to a big inflation in prices resulting from delay in implementation.
-      The long time taken to issue the necessary permissions from different departments such as
Irrigation, Roads, Railway, etc... caused a big delay in execution of the project and increased the work
required.
-      The splitting of contract that could have been combined, such as, the procurement of pipes, and
contracts for installing pipes which should have been in one contract for the procurement and installation
of pipes for each sector of the Governorate.
2.3    Stations of 'Contract 4"
Delay in awarding "Contract 4" concerning the [construction] of 4 new water treatment plants
led to the [insufficiency of] funds as a result of the increase in local prices due to inflation which led the
Egyptian government to sign the French protocol to finance the Nubariya and Kaft El Dawar stations.
2.4    The increase in the final total cost of the proiect.
The increase in the cost was due to the following reasons:
-      Delay in executing the project. It was originally planned to finish all the contracts for Beheira
Water Project by the end of 1986. Most contracts were delayed until 1990. The [Treatment Plants]
subject of "Contract 4", [large] stations is not yet finished, nor is also contract no. 9 (networks).
-      The system adopted for solving problems and furnishing technical suggestions took a long time
for corresponding between the consultant, the contractor, and the main office in London which resulted
in a lengthy time of execution and an increase in cost.
-      The contracts were prepared in such a way that when applying the formula for inflation and price
increase, it applied to all items of the contract where the increase was for one item. For example, the
increase in fuel prices led to increase in all items, such as rent of offices and insurance, etc. The
application of the formula should have been restricted to the inflated items only.
3.     RESULTS AND LESSONS LEARNED
3.1    We agree with the World Bank's report concerning some of the following points - which should
have been taken care of during the execution of the Beheira Water Supply Project:



- 24 -
Projects have to be divided into stages. Discussions should be carried out between concerned
parties (owner, implementer, and supervisor) to determine the priorities according to actual needs, and
to perform realistic studies. The first stage, in the current project, should have been the execution of the
large [treatment plants] and the main network pipe followed by the renewal and replacement stage in
order to locate the errors and defects that show  up under the new pressures.  To begin, the
implementation of the main contracts, with big allocations, could have decreased the cost of constructing
those stations by avoiding the increase in prices and rates of inflation. This could have resulted in
improving both the quality of the water and the service. This would have made the people feel the return
from establishing the company financially, economically, and managerially.
It is necessary to evaluate the project when the designs and the bid documents are completed. This
could have saved plenty of time during the evaluation of bids presented by companies with different
systems - by furnishing a standard form which is designed by a specialized consulting office. This will
help prepare the conditions of the contract, specifications, and evaluation of contractors according to a
well-defined and clear system which should have many advantages:
-      Unified spare parts for such a system
-      Simplicity of carrying out maintenance and training operations.
-      Decreasing conflicts arising from explanation of some items during execution.
-      Decrease in cost and time of execution.
In order that the agencies that are assigned to supervise the implementation are fully aware of all
elements of the project and problems that may face the implementation, so that they are able to overcome
these difficulties during implementation - later on.
Preparation for the project should include studying the following points:
-      Local regulations and legislations.
-      The project's requirement for funds (both local and foreign).
-      Local capabilities in the area of construction. Also, what the local industries can offer
to the projects, and the equipment needed.
-      Authorities assigned to agencies responsible for supervision and implementation of the
project.
-      The agency that will be responsible for managing and operating the projects, namely
Beheira Water Company,must participate in the preparation and evaluation and design
stages. The company should be offered the chance for training on how to manage big
projects so that it will eventually have the cadres and the capable personnel to manage
and to plan for future expansion.
3.2    General Remarks on how to benefit from Beheira Contracts and Points of Weakness:
Rehabilitation works for existing networks. We would have preferred if much concentration
would have been made for main pipelines between towns and villages rather than the small branch
pipelines which can be done by BWC directly, but at the same time, we [obtain] the drawing prepared
for the existing networks in those towns and villages.
Procurement and installation of equipment and chlorine sets. The contract helped in procuring
some chlorine injection units in the stations and in operations. However, the spare parts for these units



- 25 -
were insufficient for a such a big contract to guarantee continuation of efficient service for a suitable
period of time. Besides, it did include procurement of a big complete reserve unit that would be used
when needed, especially in big stations. The contract should have supposedly included training on
maintenance during operations in order to obtain the necessary skills and experience.
Contract No. 4A and D, new Damanhur's and Idfina MPlants]. The delay of execution of these
plants which was programmed for 1986 to cover the requirement of people up to 1990 caused a big
increase in its value.
Contract No. 4B and C. water [treatment plants] in Kafr El Dawar and Nubariya. The delay of
execution of these stations which was programmed for 1986 to cover the requirements of people to 1990
is due to the delay of taking off the land required for Nubariya intake site as well as the delay in
awarding the contracts.
Contract No. 8B, meters to measure the discharge of the main lines. It is better to use better
systems for measurement of equipment better than bulk meters which are always in fault.
Contract No. 9, procurement and installation of pipelines in Kafr El Dawar and Nubariva. The
delay in executing all the lines in the contract will result in incomplete utilization of the operation of
stations in Contract No. 4 in both Kafr El Dawar and Nubariya.
Contract No. 11. The works included in the contract concerning the water plant in Abu Homos
have been implemented successfully and properly with the exception of the installation of the infiltration
unit with output of 450 liters/second. The installation of this unit was done differently from the correct
technical specifications for such a unit, which resulted in not making use of the unit until now.
Contract No. 12. This contract which is concerned with the installation of the Damanhur-
Shubrakhit - Itay El Baroud pipeline, 95% of this contract was completed and expected to be completed
100% before operation of contract No.4 plant.
Contract No. 13. Installing the Idfina - Rasheed pipeline. This contract has been executed
properly. It was not however made use of since the Idfina water plant has not been operated.
Contract No. 14, Supporting the networks of Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar. The contract has
been executed and the networks are currently being used. However, according to studies, the networks
of Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar are in need of support by installing new pipelines to withhold the water
from the new plants of Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar.
Contract No. 15, Expansion of the plants of Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar. The contract has
been executed properly and had a positive effect on improving the quality of the water and enhancing the
services offered.
Contract No. 21, Replacement and renewal of the artisan wells in Kom Hamada, Itav El Baroud,
Wadv El Natroun and El Delengat. The contract value did not match the required work as the studied
requirement differed [from] the actual during executing. The execution of this contract [did not] practical
value since the condition of the wells differed from the time of preparation to the time of implementation.
There was no increase in productivity, in the life span of the equipment, nor were there any repairs done
to the existing tanks.



- 26 -
Contract No. 22. Supporting the networks of small cities. The contract was executed properly
and the pipelines were well utilized.
Contract No. 25. Installine the unit of purification from Iron and Manganese in Kom Hamada.
It would be better if the supplied equipment is slower than the erected one as the cost of operation is too
high.
Contract No. 41, Construction of Maintenance Centers. These centers have been operated and
utilized.
Contract No. 42, Construction of chlorine chambers. It would have been better to construct these
chambers under Contract No. 3 which would be inclusive of construction, procurement, and installation.
This would have been less costly since the division of this contract caused a delay in executing Contract
No. 3 "Installing the Chlorine Chambers:, due to the withdrawal of the contractor, then awarding it to
the next contractor.
Contract No. 43. Construction of Wells and High Tanks. The execution of this contract was done
properly and had a positive role in solving the water problems in the related areas.
Contract No. 44. Construction of pumnming stations. high tanks and ground tanks. The execution
of the contract was done properly. However, the delay in executing Contract No. 4 "New Plants"
prevented full utilization of the pumping stations.
Contracts No. 45. 46. These constructions provided the company workers with a suitable
working site which was reflected by their high performance. The constructions also helped ease
administrative affairs.
4.    COMMENTS ON THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The study did not include the replacement and renewal of all the Governorates' rural networks,
e.g. Kom Hamada, Itay El Baroud, El Delengat, even though most networks in these area were built in
1948 and are old and only have small diameters (between 3-5 inches) which are no longer produced and
[are not sufficient to transmit] water [under] Contract 43.
Insufficiency of the foreign funding provided by the Bank which led to [obtaining new] French
Loan.
There was no planned training program for Beheira Water Company employees in operation,
maintenance, administration and design to meet future demands for expansion and construction of new
networks and wells.
The initial and field studies conducted to determine the conditions of the networks which would
be the basis for the contract and bidding documents, took an extended period of time until the start of the
actual execution of the contracts which resulted in an increase in the cost of implementation as well as
the unexpected lengthy time period of implementation (compared to both the estimated cost and the time
of execution).
The company was not involved with NOPWASD and the consultants in all the stages of the



- 27 -
Project preparation, studies, evaluation and monitoring the implementation to give them experience for
future projects. Also, there was no [way of using] dependency on other agencies to maintain complete
independence of the project (according to] the original goal.
The Bank took into consideration the financial requirements to implement the project and [extend]
the [closing date] of the loan more than once and for different periods until the final closure on
31/12/1993 which helped [meet] the goals of [completing works] despite the increased costs.
Follow-up continued during the implementation of the project by representatives and committees
of the Bank, at different time periods, through field visits, which helped solve problems that occurred
during execution of the project.
The Bank did not assist in advancing and promoting the company's administrative performance
to enable it to perform all the administrative tasks after the project is completed, especially since the
company was specifically formed recently with that objective in mind, for example, "preparing the job
description for every position, employment skeleton".
M:\EGT\PA051\PCR\BEH-PH



I



- 29 -
Attachment 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A: World Bank Statistical Data
Related IBRD Loans/1DA Credits
Credit Title                           Purpose                           Year of           Status                Comments
Approval
L.n. 1369-EGT           To assist in the financing of a water supply project  02/27/77          Closed       Satisfactorily complewtd iln
Alexandria Water        in the city of Alexandria.                                             07131/R5      1985 PI'AR No. 674r2 daled
Project                                                                                                      May 20. 1987).
Cr. S-20                To finance studies to review in general the physical  12/06/77          Closed
Engineering Tecnnical   requirements, funding needs and priority of                            06/30/80
Assistance              development for water supply in Provincial Egypt in
addition to recommendation on institutional and
organizational matters. The credit financed as well
the feasibility studies required for the preparation of
water supply projects in the Beheira and Kafr El
Sheik Govemnorates.
LIn. 2352-EGT           To study the physical and institutional needs for      10/1983          Closed
Water Supply and        improving water supply services in the governorates                    12/31/86
Sewerage Engineering    of Daqahliya and Damietta and for improving
Project (in Daqahliya,   sewerage and sanitation services in these two
Damietta and Beheira)    governorates and in the governorate of Beheira; and
io prepare detailed designs of identified projects and
assistance to implement proposals ror institutional
Development started under the Water Supply
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. S-
20) and the Beheira Water Supply Project (Cr. 1156-
EGT approved in June 1981).
Ln. 2993-EGT            To improve productivity and the quality of service    09/15/88          Closed      The project was cancelled in
Second Alexandria      through increased capacity utilization and the                          0110219()    January 1990. one year afler
Water Supply Project    introduction of preventive maintenance; (ii) to                                      Board approval. without the
encourage water conservation through appropriate                                    legal documents being signed.
pricing; and (iii) to strengthen sector institutions.                              'Tbe reasons given by the
Borrower ftr not proceeding
with the project are that moat
of the goods required by the
project were available on the
local market (though at higher
cost than under [CO), and was
concerned at its foreign
exchange risk in borrowing
from the Bank.
Sotirce: FCA/MENA Information Center



Attachment 2
- 30 -
Proect Timetable
tent                         llanned Date                  Revised Date                 Actual Date
Ideadfication                04/79                         04n9                         04179
Preparation                   12/79, 10/80                 12/79, 10/80                  12/79, 10/80
Pro-Appraiul                 061J0                         06/80                        06/80
Appraisl                     10/80                         10/80                        10/80
Credit Negotiations          03123-27181                   04/06-10/81                  04/06-10/1981
Board Presentation/Approval  06/02/81                      06/02/81                     06/02/81
Credit Signature             11/25/81                      11/25/81                      11/25/81
Credit Efiectivenea          04/30182                      04/30/82                     04/30/82
Credit Cloaing                12/31/86                     12/31/93                      12/31/93
12/31/91
06/30/88
12/31/87
Source: Projec Piles



Attachment 3
- 31 -
Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant      Subject                                        Compliance             Status
Credit Agreement - Arab Republic of EgyDt
CA 2.04       Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986.                              Extended to December 31, 1993.
CA 3.01 (a)   Borrower to ensure that the implementing       12/31/93               Met.
agency (NOPWASD) and the beneficiary (BWC)
meet the obligations of the Credit Agreement.
CA 3.01 (b)  (A) Borrower to conclude a subsidiary loan      None.                  Met.
agreement with BWC.
(B) BWC to repay the subsidiary loan to        12/31/93               Not met.
Borrower.
CA 3.03       Submission of a program by Govt. re: transfer  03/82                  Met.
of assets from Govt. of Beheira to BWC.
CA 3.04(a)   Implementation of a tariff system for BWC (by   07/82                  Met.
the Borrower).
Proiect Aereement - National Oreanization for Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage (NOPWASD) and Beheira Water Company
PA 2.03       Employment of engineering consultants by       12/81                  Met
NOPWASD (GOPW).
PA 2.04(a)    Submission of detailed training program by     12/81                  Met.
NOPWASD (GOPW).
PA 2.04(c)    NOPWASD (GOPW) to provide a detailed plan      12/82                  Met.
for operating the training center.
PA 2.06       Submission by NOPWASD (GOPW) of educ.          12/82                  Met.
prog. on health aspects associated with water
use.
PA 2.07       Preparation and submission by NOPWASD          12/82                  Met.
(GOPW) of national program for rehabilitation
of water supply facilities.
PA 2.09(b)    Submission of progress quarterly reports.      09/91                  Progress reports received through 09/93
PA 3.02(a)    BWC to employ management consultants.          12/81                  Contract with Center for Research &
Studies of the Ministry of Housing and
Utilities was signed in 08/88.
PA 3.02(c)    Employment of a training officer by BWC.       12/81                  Met
PA 4.04       Financial covenant re generation of revenues.  06/83                  Complied with through FY92. Tariff
increases in FY93 have not been
implemented.
PA 4.05(c)    Preparaton of statements re: BWC's methods     03/84                  Complied with through FY92 as a part of
for charging for water consumed at standpipes.                        new tariff system implemented since July
1985. No statements have been provided
in FY93.
PA 4.06       Submit proposals on extent of price chargeable  06/84                 Originally included in assignment of CRS
directly to consumer re: 4.05(c).                                     Management consultancy. Consultants did
not develop proposals current policy
maintains payment by local authorities.
Source: Project Files



-  32  -                                     Attachment 4
Total Supervision Completion Cost
(in staffweeks)
Task              SOP    FY84    FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91             FY92   FY93    FY94    TOTAL
ARI               BB                                 0.1      0                                                               0I
PCR               BB                                                                                               5.0        SD
SPN               BB      27.0    11.8    18.7    19.8    26.0        14.6    9.5       12.0    12.7      7.3      5.3      164.6
SUBTOTAL                  27.0    11.8    19.7    19.9    26.0    14.6    9.5           12.0    12.7      7.3     10.3      169.8
SUPERVISION
Source: MIS
Nnoles:
ARI = Annual Report of Portfolio Performance
The Resources spent on lending are not available on the MIS.



- 33 -
Attachment 5
Mission Data
MISSION TYPE              DATES OF MISSION              NUMBER OF PERSONS              DATE OF       PROBLEM
REPORT          TYPES
Preparation             06/18 - 06/25/80           2 (MacWilliam (SE) and Shehadch   07/18/80
(FA))
Appraisal               10/05 - 10/30/80           2 (MacWilliam (SE) and Shehadeh   11/11/80
(FA).)
Follow-Up (Appraisal)    02/10 - 02/16/81          1 (Shehadeh (FA))                 03/16/81
Supervision I          07/06 - 07/20/81            3 (Huang (SE), Shehadeh (FA),     08/03/81
MacWilliam (SE))
Supervision LI         09/11 - 09/30/81            1 (Huang (SE))                     10/23/81
Supervision III         01/16 - 01/26/82           1 (Huang (SE))                    02/10/82
Training               03/14 - 03/18/82            1 (Barker (TR))                   06/11/82
Supervision IV         09/10 - 09/20/82            2 (Huang (SE), Shehadeh (FA))     10/27/82
Supervision V           09/04 - 09/19/83           2 (Huang (SE), Shehadeh (FA))     09/30/83
Supervision VI          12/09 - 12/12/83           1 (Huang (SE))                     12/30/83
Supervision Vn         08/01 - 08/10/84            2 (Huang (SE), Zelaya (SE))       08/17/84
Supervision vm          12/01 - 12/13/84           2 (Zelaya (SE), Banerjee (FA))     12/20/84
Supervision IX          04/01 - 04/18/85           1 (Chittleburgh CMI))             05/07/85
Supervision X           09/30 - 11/22/85           1 (Zelaya (SE))                    12/09/85
Supervision XI          07/19 - 08/08/86           1 (Zelaya (SE))                   08/25/86       A9i1 Pond. 3
Supervision XII         12/14 - 12/19/86           1 (Zelaya (SE))                    12/23/86
Supervision XHI         11/12 - 11/24/87           1 (Zelaya (SE))                   01/06/88       A,iP.,.d: 3
0,.. 3
Supervision XIV and    05/21/88 - 06/09/88         2 (Shehadeh (FA), Henley (SE))    07/07/88
Restructuring
Supervision XV         08/19/88 - 08/24/88         1 (Henley (SE))                   09/12/88
Supervision XVI         11/19/88 - 12/18/88        2 (Shehadeh (FA), Henley (SE))    01/05/89
Supervision XVI         12/01/89 - 12/11/89        2 (Shehadeh (FA), Henley (SE))    01/08/90       T.&" p     3
Supervision XVIL       05/30 - 06/15/90            2 (Shehadeh (FA), Peltekian (ME))    07/20/90
Supervision XIX        04/07 - 04/12/91            1 (Zelaya (SE))                   04/24/91        .    ':
Supervision XX          06/02 - 06/20/91           2 (Shehadeh (FA), Zelaya (SE))    07/15/91       P       RftC: 3
Supervision XXI         11/29 - 12/12/91           2 (Shehadeh (FA), Zelaya (SE))    12/18/91       A-L of 3
Supervision XXII       08/06 - 08/16/92            1 (Zelaya (SE))                   08/31/92
Supervision XXHI       06/10 - 06/25/93            1 (Zelaya (SE))                   07/20/93      o0f 
P}.d D.wiop. c 3
Supervision XXIV        11/93                      1 (Zelaya (SE))                    12/13/93        o  s
(FINAL)                                                                                             r
SE=Sanitary Engineer FA=Financial Analyst TR=Training



- 34 -
Attachment 6
Credit Disbursements by Semester
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual
Semester          Disbursed         Cumulative        Percentage    Disbursed      Cumulative     Percentage
Ending
12180
06/81
12/81
06/82
12/82                   7.30                 7.30          12.9           2.66           2.66            5.0
06/83                   8.80                 16.10         28.4           0.40            3.06           5.4
12/83                   8.80                24.90         44.0            0.62           3.68            6.6
06/84                  11.15                 36.05         63.6           6.25            9.93          17.7
12/84                  11.20                47.25         83.5            2.69           12.62          22.5
06/85                   4.70                 51.95         91.8           2.25           14.87          26.6
12/85                   4.65                 56.60        100.0           3.26           18.13          32.4
06/86                   0                    56.60                        2.90           21.03          37.6
12/86                                                                     2.54          23.57           44.8
06/87                                                                      1.49          25.06          47.8
12/87                                                                     3.29          28.35           50.6
06/88                                                                     4.69           33.04          59.0
12/8S                                                                     1.87          34.91           62.3
06/89                                                                     5.38           40.29          71.9
12/89                                                                     1.26          41.55           74.2
06/90                                                                      1.64          43.19          77.1
12/90                                                                     1.05          44.24           79.0
06/91                                                                     0.47           44.71          79.8
12/91                                                                     0.48          45.19           80.7
06/92                                                                      1.14          46.33          82.7
12/92                                                                     2.98          49.31           88.1
06193                                                                     2.41           51.72          92.4
12/93                                                                     1.17          52.89           94.4
03/94                                                                     0.94           53.83          96.2
06/94                                                                     2.11           55.94         100.0
Source: Project Files and MIS Data



- 35 -                                       Attachment 7
Categorv Allocations and Final Disbursed Amounts (in SDRs)
Category             Original Allocation    Revised Allocation        Actual Disburseenents
At Appraisal
SDRs            USS Equivalent
(1) Civil Works under              13,340.000           8,000,000            2,490,517           3,438,847
Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project
(2) Goods under Parts              21,160,000         26,800,000            33,403,590          40,124,634
A, B, C and D of the
Project
(3) Civil Works under               1,630,000                  0                    0                   0
Part E, and training and
goods under Parts E and F
of the Project
(a) Civil Works                        0             300,000                    0                    0
(b) Goods                              0             400,000              309,956              402,157
(c) Training                           0             930,000               47,736               52,065
(4) Consultant's Services           1,970,000           5,920,000            7,653,037           9,436,345
(5) Project Preparation Advance      800,000             867,899              867,899              987,366
(6) Engineering Credit              1,300,000           1,327,265            1,327,265           1,499,372
(7) Unallocated                     5,900,000           1,554,836                   0                   0
TOTAL                              46,100,000         46,100,000            46,100,000          55,940,785



Table 1
-  36  -                                      Page 1 of 2
B.      Project Implementation Data
Project Completion Costs
Local    Foreien      Total      Local   Foreien      Total
Contract                             ( USS Million Equivalent)        (LE Million Equivalent)
la. Supply Pipes and Fittings     0.36      9.74        10.10      0.25     14.17      14.42
lb. Supply of Valves              --        0.12        0.12        - -     0.11        0.11
2. Network Rehabilitation         8.87       --         8.87       17.73     --         17.73
3. Supply & Installation of        --       2.82        2.82        -       2.92        2.92
Chlorination Equipment
4A. New Treatment Works at        7.62      4.51        12.13     25.50     12.11       37.61
Damanhur
4B & C. New Treatment Works at    20.51     11.66       32.17     67.20     31.96       99.16
Kafr El Dawar and Nuberiya'
4D. New Treatment Works at        6.28      4.25        10.53     21.00     11.20      32.20
Idfina
8a. Supply of Domestic Water      0.01      0.60        0.61       0.03     0.63        0.66
Meters
8b. Supply of Bulk Water Meters    --       0.09        0.09        --      0.05        0.05
9/9A. Installation of Pipelines for  2.40    --         2.40       7.95      --         7.95
Kafr El Dawar and Nubariya
10. Site Investigation            0.23       --         0.23       0.16      --         0.16
11. Rehabilitation of Abu Hommos    3.50    5.14        8.64       3.50     3.00        6.50
WTP and Small Works
12. Installation of Pipeline for  4.10      0.06        4.16       6.80     0.10        6.90
Damanhur and Shubra Khit
13. Installation of Pipeline for  0.98      0.40        1.38       1.64     0.67        2.31
Idfina
14. Installation of Pipelines for  0.64     0.10        0.74       1.28     0.19        1.47
Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar
15. Extension to Damanhur and     4.47      1.40        5.87       3.13     0.98        4.11
Kafr El Dawar Treatment Works
17. Network Rehabilitation in 3   4.93      1.10        6.03       3.80     0.84        4.64
Markazes
I/    Financed by the Government of France and the Government of Egypt.



Table I
-37                                          Page 2 of 2
Local    Forin        Total      Loal   Porewn        Total
Contract                              (USS Million Equivalent)        (LE Million Equivalent)
18. Network Rehabilitation in      6.67        1.40        8.07     5.14      1.13         6.27
Damanhur and Kafr El Dawar
21. Rehabilitation of Boreholes    1.61        -           1.61     1.13      -            1.13
22. Installation of Pipelines for  1.79        0.38        2.17     1.25      0.27         1.52
Small Works
25. Supply & Installation of Iron &  0.10      0.20        0.30     0.08      0.17         0.25
Mauganese Plant at Kom Hamada
40. Supply of Special Equipment    0.03        0.28        0.31     0.02      0.20         0.22
for Training Center
41. Construction of District Center  2.12      -           2.12     4.25      -            4.25
42A. Construction of Chlorination  1.03       --           1.03     0.93      -            0.93
Building
43. Construction of Boreholes and  6.65        0.26        6.91     5.62      0.22         5.84
Elevated Tanks
44. Constuction of Town Pumping    30.43       3.32       33.75    21.30      2.33        23.63
Stations and Reservoirs
45. Construction of Staff Housing  1.66       -            1.66     1.66     -             1.66
46. Consiuction of Headquarters,   2.70       -            2.70     5.39     -             5.39
Training Center and Staff Houses in
Damanhur
Land Acquisition                  14.50       =           14.50    10.15     =            10.15
Sub-Total                        134.19       47.83      182.02   216.89     83.25       300.14
Consultants                        5.00        7.80       12.80     5.90      9.20        15.10
Management Services                0.15        -           0.15     0.30      -            0.30
Training Services Health Program  -            0.10        0.10     -         0.08         0.08
PPF                                                        2.90 2             20 =         2.03
Total                            139.34       58.63      197.97   223.09     94.56       17.65



Table 2
-  38  -                                         Page 1 of 3
Damanhur Regional Training Center 1992-1993 Training Program2
Course                          Date            # of Trainees
Given
Introduction to WW Treatment                           9/8/92              12
Leak Detection                                         13/9/92             14
Introduction to WW Treatment                           11/10/92             6
Leak Detection                                         18/10/92            11
Electrical Maintenance                                 25/10/92            13
Pump Maintenance and Repair                            15/11/92            36
Electrical Motor M & R                                 6/12/93             29
Electrical Motor M & R                                 13/12/93            28
Introduction to Mechanical Maintenance                 20/12/93            36
Leak Detection                                         20/12/93            21
Maintenance Planning & Management                      10/1/93              8
Intro to Electrical Equipment Maintenance              10/1/93              6
Flowmeter Maintenance and Repair                       10/1/93             25
Introduction to Mechanical Maintenance                 17/1/93             10
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          17/1/93             41
Intro to Electrical Equipment Maintenance              24/1/93             15
Flowmeter Maintenance and Repair                       24/1/93             14
Pump Maintenance and Repair                            30/1/93             33
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          7/2/93              50
Flowmeter Maintenance and Repair                       14/2/93             37
Introduction to Water Treatment                        14/2/93              8
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          4/4/93              16
Introduction to Mechanical Maintenance                 4/4/93              18
Electrical Motor M & R                                 4/4/93              17
Pump Maintenance and Repair                            11/4/93              7
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          11/4/93             16
Introduction to Water Treatment                        11/4/93              7
Introduction to Mechanical Maintenance                 26/4/93             13
Electrical Motor M & R                                 2/5/93              13
Introduction to Electrical Equipment Maint.            9/5/93              19
Flowmeter Maintenance and Repair                       16/5/93             16
Compact Unit 0 & M                                     23/5/93             35
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          23/5/93             21
Utility Supervision                                    6/6/93              27
2/       USAID and Government financed program.



Table 2
39  -                                          Page 2 of 3
Cours                          Date            I of Trainee
Given
Chlorination                                           1316/93             16
Utility Supervision                                   13/6/93              27
Introduction to Network 0 & M                         13/6193              18
Principles of Management                              27t6/93              23
Compact Unit 0 & M                                    2716193              6
WW Collection Network 0 & M                           27/6/93              28
WW Treatment/Activated Sludge                         4/7/93               25
Pump Station O & M                                    117/93              10
Water Network Installation and Repair                  IU7/93              14
Introduction to Supervision                           18/7/93              5
Electrical Motor M & R                                1/8/93               14
Compact Unit 0 & M                                    27/6/93              39
OJT Laboratory (water) Course                         8/8/93               8
OJT Laboratory (wastewater) Course                    15/8193              8
Flowmeter Maintenance and Repair                      22/U93               10
Safety                                                22/8/93              4
Water Treatment Plan Mech Equip M & R                 5/9193               12
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          19/9/93             18
Introduction to Water Treatment                       1919/93              15
Safety                                                26/9/93              12
OJT Methods                                           26/9/93              16
Introduction to Utility Management                     10/10/93            12
Introduction to Network 0 & M                          17110/93            10
Watermeter Maintenance and Repair                      17/10/93            14
Water Treatment Plant M & R                           24/10/93             35
WW TreatmenUtPrimy and Trick. Fitness                 31/10/93             12
Introduction to Electrical Equipment MainL            31/10/93             9
Watermeter Maintenance and Repair                     31/10/93             23
Pump Station 0 & M                                    7/11/93              37
WW Collection Network 0 & M                           7/11/93              39
Introduction to Water Treatment                       7/11/93              23
Supply and Materials Handling Procedue                14/11/93             17
Maintenance Planning and Management                   14/11/93             14
Pump Station O & M                                    21/11193             44
Watermeter Maintenance and Rqair                      21/11/93             19
Compact Unit O & M                                    28/11193             18
Introduction to Network 0 & M                         2U 11/93             19



Table 2
-  40  -                                        Page 3 of 3
Course                          Date           # of Trainees
Given
Leak Detection                                        5/12/93              27
Introduction to Mechanical Maintenance                5/12/93              28
Water Treatment Plant Mechanical M & R                5/12/93              12
WW Sludge Treatment and Handling                      5/12/93              3
Certification Course                                  5/12/93              16
Office Automation and Computerized Supply Systems     12/12/93             14
Introduction to Utility Management                    12/12/93             15
Water Network Installation and Maintenance             12/12/93            13
WW Treatment-Primary and Trickling Filters            19/12/93             15
Compact Unit 0 & M                                     19/12/93            24
Introduction to Supervision                           19/12/93             23
Pump Station 0 & M                                    26/12/93             32
Compact Unit 0 & M                                    26/12/93             30
Pump Maintenance & Repair                             26/12/93             35
Pump Maintenance & Repair                             2/1/94               33
Introduction to Network 0 & M                         2/1/94               32
Pump Station 0 & M                                    2/1/94               29
Watermeter Maintenance & Repair                       9/1/94               50
Certification Course                                  9/1/94               21
Pump Station 0 & M                                    16/1/94              29
Intro. to Mechanical Maintenance                      16/1/94              32
Introduction to Network O & M                         16/1/94              21
Introduction to Supervision                           23/1/94              16
Water Network Installation & Maintenance              23/1/94              18
WW Sec. Treatment-Stabilization Ponds                 23/1/94              5
Certification                                         30/1/94              21
Pump Maintenance & Repair                             6/2/94               27
Water Treatment Plant Mechanical Equipment M & R      6/2/94               14
WW Pump/Lift Station 0 & M                            6/2/94               30
Pump Station 0 & M                                    20/3/94              20
Engines & Rolling Stock M & R                         20/3/94              13
Water Network Installation & Maintenance              27/3/94              56
Pump Station 0 & M                                    27/3/94              10
Introduction to Waaewater Treatment                   27/3/94              23
Pump/Lift Station Electrical Equipment M & R          27/3/94              18
Total                                                                     2156
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



Implementation Schedule
Project Comoonents                                      1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995
'Establishing BWC
Restructuring GOPW & GOSSD
Rehabilitation Works
Existing Distribution
Existing Treatment Plants                                           ...
Existing Rural Boreheads and Chlorination Systems
New Water Treatment Plants
at Nubariya
at Kafr El Dawar                                                                                               ..........
at Damanhur
at    Idfina                                                                        ....   ... ........... .....  .
Truck Distribution
New Connections and Standpipesi
Water Meter Purchase
Headquarters. District Centers and Staff House                      . =   =
Activities:  -  Bidding and Award Stage
s       Rebidding and Award Stage
I Implementation Stage                                                                                   'TI



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA  WATER  COMPANY(BWC)
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CRI1S6-EGT)
PRCOJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                                                                               :I
____,,________._____ .__.,__ _ _. _                                                             j                  _
H'
INCOME STATEMENTS
L E. ('000)                                                              |P
a------------------------------------------------------ectual-----------------------                                                     ---                       AR estimates ------------- t
YwendwngJunerl30,                             19e5       19        1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993            1t85      1Q86      1987       1988      1989      1990
Water Produced (Mnm3)                         71.37     81.82     82.20      84.60     87.48     9703    104.18    105.90    113.18            05.50    100.80    105.10    109.50    114.00    111.72        I .
10
Water Saes, Total (Mm3)                       37.10     44.20     45.96      48.34     56.85     65.17     61.39     64.9       74.26           87.1    70.60       73.50     70.60     79,80     63.10 t       3
(o idich mretered,  rnm3)                    31.88     27.60     2760      34.80      31.29     36.95     40.79     41.21     38.90            35.      37.40      38.90     40.50     42.30     44.00        1 -
Unaccontrd  (%)                                48%       40%       44%        43%       35%       33%       41%       S9%        34%            30%       30%        30%       30%       30%       30%
Av.watw arif (pt./M3)                          1.76      5.41      5.97       8.22     11.38     14.42     27.06     31.92      32.89           5.95      6.59      11.59     13.12     15.00      15.00
Av.tsifrI,meterdsilesr)                        2.05      3.98      5.32       7.37     12.50     15.06     21.78      19.61     26.70           6.79      10.00     13.00     15.00     15.00      15.00
- -- --   -  -  -- --   - -- --- - - -- LE 'Ooo -------------------------_  -__  ___  __  ~ - --- - -- -- -- -- --- - LE'ooo - - - - -__-_ ____  __ -            f  ---- 
Revenues                                                                                                                                                                                                      |r
Water Sales (metered)                          6152     1,098      1,467     2,564     3,911     5.564     8,885     8,082    10,387           2,416      3,740     5.057     0.090     6.345     6,6a0 
WatebSles (non-metered)                          0      1.295     1.279     1,407     2,557      3,835     7.727    12,587    14,042           1,575     2,324     3.460      3.900     5,o25     5,855
Otherflevenuer                                 290      2,486       476      1.795     1,130     6,162     2,028       823      2,921
connection charges                             373        721       691      2,242     3,457     3,474     5,259     3,091      5,144            344       51a       572        707       781       851
Government Subsidy                            1,211     2,200     1,741      1,427        0          0     5,176         0         0
Total Revenues                      2,532     7,800     5,654     9,435    11,055    19,035    29.075    24.563    32,494            4,335     6,580      9,089    10,757    12,751    13,326
ilan8et                                       1,732     2,076      2,241     3,073     3,614     4,142     4,718     5,164      6,456           1.595     1.909     2,145     2.387     2,630      2.804
MaterialsandPurchases                         1,049     1.891     1,981      3.250     4,053     5,168     7.335     7,372    10.886             996      1,114     1,226     1,350     1,458      1,639
Administrative and Other                        131       135        98        la         30        29     4,104       572       930             145       160        172       185       192       209
Maintenance                                    218        253        70       131       232        209       215       250       407             488       542       656        6oS       665       676
Total Expenses                      3,130     4,355     4,396     6,472      7,929     9,548    10,372    13.358    1t,679           3.204     3,725      4,199     4,587     4,975     5,328
Income Beoret Depreciation                (59-) 3,4S          1.258     2,903     3,126     9,487    12,703    11.205     13,815           1,131     2.855     4,890     6,170     7.776      7.998
Loee: Depreciation                            1,161     1,339      1,169     1,230      211      3,243     0,025     6,881      7,236           2.921    3,310      4,010     4,056     4.056     4.111
Provisions                                121      3,154       908     1,430      1,805      185    10.752      3,940     3,424
Incorn before Interst                   (1,880    (1,048)     (819)      297      1,110      ,1059    (4,074)     708     3,153           (1,790)    (455)      880      2,114     3,720     3,887
Less: Interest                                   0          0         0         0          0         0     3,433     3,468      3,715              0      1,118     2,226     2,t42     2,031      1,919
NIetncome,(Losses)                           (1.880)    (1,048)    (819)      297      1,110     6,059    (7,507)   (2.7a6)      (562)         (1,790)   (1,573)   (1,346)      (26)    1,689     1,968
................-----    -----               .      .............. _,, ..... .    . -       ----,,. ,,,,,,,,_,...................    2.. ----_ 
OperatingRetio                                334%      1S8%      165%       114%       90%       88%      139%       97%        90%            141%     107%        90%       80%       71%       71%
Revenues/Expenses&Deprecistion '               30%       63%       80%        88%      111%      147%       72%      103%       111%            71%       94%       111%      124%      141%      141%
Ifat ldRatun                                -35.3%    -103%      -8.5%       2.6%      8.0%      12.1%    -4.2%       0.7%      2.7%           -5.3%     -0.6%       1.0%      2.2%      4.0%      4.4%
* Revenues exclude Govt. subsidy: expaee tkifjde provisons for bad debts, (receivebes for non-metered sales) for FY1986 - 1993.
02-JLn1-94



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA WATER COMPANY(BWC)
BEHEIRA PROVINCLAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR1156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STATEMENTS OF SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
L E. ('000)
------------------------------------------------a--------adual-----------------------                                                     ---------------- SAR  estmates ------------
Yewr ndtngJune30,                                        1986      I987       1088      t989      1990      1991       1092      1993            1W85      1988      1987      1988       1989      19g
Sources of Funds
Net Operating Incom                                     (1,048)    (819)       297     1,110      8,059    (4.074)      708     3,153          (1,7a0)     (455)      880      2,114     3.720     3.887
Add: Depreciation                                        1,339     1,169     1,230       211      3,243     6,025    61,551      7,238          2.921      3,310     4,010     4,058     4.056     4,111
Total Interoa Sources                              291       350      1,527     1,321     9,302      1,951     7.259    10.391           1,131     2.855     4,890     6,170      7,776     7,908
Add. Increase (dec) In Provisions                                             (100)      368        60        GI        300       109
Govt. EquityContnbLtion a)                              9,834    15,010   (27,75.4)    2,145    35,739    14,888    10,406    26,787           12600      7,600         0         0          0         0
CustomerContribution                                       47        223       198       441       482        917      (527)     (255)
Borrowng
IDACredit b/                                            2,777      4.608   (10.577)   (2.449)   39,779    32.499          0     7,333          10,350     2.635         0         0          0         0
Other Borrowings                                            0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0                                                                            LA)
Total                                     2,777     4,608   (19.577)   (2,449)   39,779    32,499          0      7.333          10.350     2.635         0         0         0         0
Total Sources                                12,949    20.191    (45,706)    1,824    85,362    50,344    17,528    44,345          24,081     13,090     4,890     6,170     7,778     7.998
Application of Funds
Project Expenditure c/                                  11,202    20,280   (47,709)   (2,663)   74,565    28.603      7.553    21,792          21.493     8.803
Captalized Interest                                                              0         0         0          0         0         0            1.882     1.074
OtherInvestments                                            0         0      2,151     2,114      1,251    19,545     3,818    11,541               0       500       862      1,091     1,436     2 189
Total                                    11.202    204 280   (45,558)     (549)   75,816    48,148    11,360    33,333           23.375    10,377       862      1,0I1     1,436     2.189
Increase (decrease) in
WorkingCapdal                                  1,145     1.209     1,893      3,493    12,071     7,061    10,497    15,231             700      1,595     1,802     1,077     2.449      2,030
Debt Service
Interest                                                    0         0          0         0         0      3.4J3     3,468     3,715               0     1,118      2,226     2,142     2,031     1.919
Repayment                                                   0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0               0         0         0      1.860     1.860      1 80
Total                                        0          0         0         0          0     3.433     3,468      3,715              0      1,118     2,228     4,002     3,891     3.770
Total Applications                            12,347    21.489   (43,885)    2.944    87,887    58.642    25,334    52,279            24.081    13,090      4890      6,170     7,778     7.98
Debt Setvi  Coverage                                        0         0          0         0         0       057       2.09       2 80              0       2 50      2 20      1.50      2 00      2 10
a/ Negative contnbutions in FY1088 are the reeutt of canceling value of project iacild4es trom fied assets that were recorded eariler;
those wete rtincluded en FYI OO
b/ As ine()eaovw tor FY 1988 and 1989; negative amounts represnt adjustment of proect financed by IDA
cJ Decres in Fbd assete as per (a)and(b) above(FY 1988 and 1989)because of delating project assets from Balance Sheets
02-Jun-94



ARAB REPUBLIC Of EGYPT
BE HE IRA WATER COMPANY(BWC)
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CRt156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BALANCE SHEETS
L. E. ( 000)
-----------------------------------------------------  aduae --------------------------                                                  ---------------- SAR  estimates -------------
As dJune 30,                                  1985      198W      1287      iba9      1989      t990      1991      1992       1993           1985      1986      1987      1988     1t989       990
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Goas FuxedAssets                           i8,756    19.064    20,319    24,057    26,171   100.736   130,631   138,184   159,975          92.063   106,588   t28,636   130.503   130,503   132,698
Lees: Depmeciatmon                          8.093     9.431    10.631     11,20     11t,416    15,079    22.397    28,915    36,111        24,885    28,195    32,205    36,261    40.317    44,428
NetFixedAssets                     10,663     9,633     9,748    12851    14,755    85,657   108.234   109.269   123,864           67.178    78.393    96.431    94,242    90,186    88,270
Wek In Progress                             23,972    34,865    53,860     3,969      1,305     2.659    22,203    25.986    37,486         26.696    22.548      1,362      586     2,022     2,016
Total FixedAssets                  34,635    44.498    63,608    16,820    16,060    88.316   130,437   135,255   161.350           93.874   100,941    97,793    94,828    02,208    90,286
Current Assets
Cash                                          583       857      1,520     1,235     2.499     4.370     5,326     6,128     9,902            627       665      1,124     1,817     3.795     5,742        ,
tnventories                                   922       933      1,077     1,430     2,013     2,590     3,787     4,213     4,467            318       359       405       437       468       506
Receivable ress provisions)                   355       849      1,476     3.122     4,796    13.993    14,107    24,273    36,720            998     1,516     2,129      2,512     2.993    3,116
Other                                         284       650       425       404       376       802      5,596     4,696     3,455
TotalCurrentAssets                   2.144     3,289      4,498     6,191     9,684    21.755    28.816    39,313    54,544           1,943    2,540      3.658     4,766     7,256     9,304
TotalAssets                      36.779    47,787    68,106    23,011    25,744   110,071   I59,253   174,568   25,894          95,817   103,481   101,451    99,594    99,464    29,650
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equiy
Captal                                     10.942    10.942    10,942    11,321    21,153    21.153    56 892    71,778    82,184           28.400    28,400    28,400    28,400    28,400    28,400
Retained Earnings                           (5.77')   (6.8a9)    (7.639)   (7.342)   (6,232)    (173)   (7.680)  (10.440)  (11.002)         (9,473)  (11,046)  (12,392)  (12,420)  (t0.731)   (t,763)
Government Conrnbutions                    10,978    20,810    35.820      7,667        0    35,739    14,886    10,406    26,767          40,500    45.100    48,t00    48,100    A8.I00    48,100
Reserves                                    2,030     2.077      2,300     2.792     3.344     3,508     4,425     3,898     3,643
Provisions                                    534       534       534       t40       396       457       546       930      1045
TotalEquity                      18,711    27.544    41,957    14,598    18,661    60,684    69.069    76,578   102,637          59,427    65.454    64,108    64,080    65,769    67,737
Lang -term Borrovrng
DA Credit                                  14,642    17,419    22.027      2,450        0    39,/7/     72.278    72,278    79,611         34.4A5    37,100    37,I00    35,240    33,380    31.520
OtherLT loans                                   0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Toal LT Loans                     14,642    17,419    22,o27      2,450        0    39,779    72,278    72.278    79,611          34,465    37,100    37,100    35,240    33.380    31.520
Curent Liabilities
Accounts Payable                            3,426     2,824      4,122     5,963     7,083     9.608    17,906    25,712    33,646           1,925      927       243       274       315       393
TotalEquity&Liab.                   36,779    47.787    68,106    23.011    25,744   110,071   159,253   174,568   215,894          95,8t7   103,481   101,451    99,594    99,464    99,650
CurrentRatio                                  0.83       1 1a      1.09      104       1.37      226       1.61      1.53      1.62            1Ot       2.74     15.05     17.39     2303      2383
Debt-Equity Rebio                             0.44      0.39       0.34      0.14      0 00      0.40      0.51      0 49      0.44            0.37      0.36      0.37      0 35      0 34      0.32
02 -Jun -94



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA WATER COMPANY(BWC)
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR1156-EGT)
PROJECT COMPLEllON REPORT
SELECTED OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PARAMETERS FYI 985-93
Year endng June 30                             1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
________________________.--__--- -- -- -- ----- act ual - -- ------------------ ----------- ----------- -             -~~~~~-        - -- ------
WaterProduced   (Mm3)                         71.37     81.82      82.20     84.80     87.48     97.03    104.18    105.90    113.18
Water Sales, total (Mm3)                      37.10      44.20     45.96     48.34     56.86     65.17      61.39     64.69     74.28
(of Which Metered, Mm3)                      31.88     27.60     27.60      34.80     31.29     39.70     40.79      41.21     38.90
Unaccounted for Water (%)                      48%       46%        44%       43%       35%       33%        41%       39%       34%
No. of Connections. Year End                152.735   171.643   176,722   186,040   197,438   207.208   209,028   222,361   224.313
Average Water Tariff (pt./M3)                  1.76       5.41      5.97      8.22     11.38      14.42     27.06     31.92     32.89
(Annual Increase %)                                    208%        10%       38%       38%       27%        88%       18%        3%
Average tariff, Meterd Sales(pt./M3)           2.05      3.98       5.32      7.37     12.50      15.06     21.78     19.61     26.70
(Annual Increase %)                                     95%       34%        39%       70%       20%       45%      -10%        36%
Operabing Ratio                               334%      158%       165%      114%       90%       68%       139%       97%       90%
Revenues/Expenses&Depredation                  30%       63%        60%       86%      111%      147%        72%      103%      111%
Current Rato (bimes)                           0.63       1.16      1.09      1.04      1.37      2.26       1.61      1.53      1.62
Receivables (Month/Revenue)                     6.5        4.3       6.5       9.4       8.9       17.9      10.2      14.1      18.0
Revenue/ Connecion (LE)                                 38.13    13605    240.61      303.30    355.58   2,889.56    231.83   2,635.25
(Annual Increase %)                                              257%        77%       26%       17%       713%     -92%      1037%
*Revenues exclude Govt subsidy; expenses include provisions for bad debts,
(receivables for non-metered sales) in FY86-89
02-Jun-94



- 46 -
Annex 5
Analysis of Accounts Receivable
(Actual - LE '000)
Year Ending June 30,             1988     1989    1990    1991       1992     1993
REVENUES
Households                                2,170    3,143    4,366
Services                                    36       73      211
Industrial (investment)                    120      361      496
Total Private Consumption           2,326    3,577    5,073    7,841    7,019    8,481
Government Agencies                        238      334      397      796      922    2,032
Other                                        0        0       93      249      141       170
Total Metered Sales                 2,564    3,911    5,563    8,886    8,082   10,683
Non-Metered Sales (Standpipes)            1,407    2,557    3,836    7,726   12,567    13,746
Total Revenues from water             3,971    6,468    9,399   16,612   20,649   24,429
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Private (Households, etc.)                2,890    3,766    6,761   10,981   14,685   16,381
Government Agencies                        220      394      547    1,039    1,601    3,314
Total                               3,110    4,160    7,308   12,020   16,286   19,695
Local Councils (Standpipes)               5,464    7,472    7,932   12,592   21,955    33,996
Total Receivable                    8,574   11,632   15,240   24,612   38,241    53,691
Provisions for Doubtful Debts             5,469    6,864    1,268   10,558   14,000    17,000
Net Receivable                      3,105    4,768   13,972   14,054   24,241    36,691
RATIOS
Provisions as Percentage of:
Receivable (Total)                       64%      59%      8%      43%      37%       32%
Receivable from Local Councils          100%     92%      16%      84%      64%       50%
Month/Revenue, Private                     14.9    12.6    16.0    16.8    25.1         23.2
Month/Revenue, Government                  11.1     14.2    16.5    15.6    20.8        19.6
Month/Revenue from metered sales           14.6    12.8    15.8    16.2    24.1         22.1
Month/Revenue, Local Councils
(Gross, Without Provisions)             25.6    22.9    17.1       19.5      21      29.7
(Net, After Provisions)                 (0.0)     2.9    20.8       3.2      7.6     14.8
Month/Revenue, Total
(Gross, Without Provisions)             25.9    21.6    19.5    17.8    22.2         26.3
(Net, After Provisions)                  9.4      8.8    17-8      10.2    14.0      18.0
Source: BWC Financial Department (lune 1991)



- 47 -
Annex 6
Tariff Structure
CONSUMER                               CONSUMTIION                                   TAREFF
Domestic                                            < = 20 M3/month                LE 0.200/M3
> 20 MI/month                LE 0.350/M3
Government and Commercial                                                          LE 0.450/M3
Industrial                                                                         LE 0.750/M3
Meter Maintenance Services                                                         LE 5.000/month



Population Served
Urban                                         Rural                                  Total of Governorate
Population      Served by     Served by     Population      Served by       Served by     Population      Served by      Served by
Year                          House   Standpipes &                        House      Standpipes &                       House   Standpipes &
Connections   other Sources                 Connections    Other Sources                  Connections   Other Sources
1982        692,460                                   2,251,003                                      2,943,463
1983        710,215                                    2,308,722                                     3,018,937
1984        728,426                                    2,367,920                                     3,096,346
1985        747,104                                   2,428,635                                      3,175,739
1986        766,260                                   2,490,908                                      3,257,168
1987        785,417                                   2,553,180                                      3,338,597
1988        805,052                                    2,617,010                                     3,422,062      1,433,352      1,988,710            1
(42%)         (58%)
1989        825,178                                    2,682,435                                     3,507,613      1,579,504      1,928,109           OD
(45%)         (55%)
1990        845,808                                   2,749,496                                      3,595,304      1,657,604      1,937,640
(46%)         (34%)
1991        866,953                                    2,818,233                                     3,685,186      1,703,560      1,981,626
(46%)         (34%)
1992        888,627                                    2,888,689                                     3,777,316      1,758,352      2,018,964
(46%)         (54%)
1993        910,842         804,296       106,546      2,960,907        939,272        2,021,635     3,871,749       1,793,568     2,128,181
(88%)         (12%)                         (32%)           (68%)                         (46%)          (54%)



Number of Permanent Emplovees
Years       Job        Sector    General    Managers    Engineers    Accountants          Higher           Lower         Chemist    Chemist   Technical   Skilled    Unskilled    Total
Description    Chief   Managers                                                 Ranking          Ranking                  Assistant                Labor      Labor
Administration    Administration
1         1982                     1           3            8             2               2                60            2                      47         210        129        464
2         1983                     1           5             8             2               3               110            4          -           51        230        150        564
3         1984                     1           10            9             1              4                116           4           1           84        241        181        652
4         1985                     4           13           13             5               7               110            3          1           81        243        185        665
5         1986                     4           12           21             8              11               156            4          2          100        308        201        827   l
6         1987                     3           12           23             8              11               174            4           2         133        383        243        996
7         1988                     4           20           22            11               9               215            3          2          136        445        239        1106
8         1989         4           8           17           22            15              12               242            4          4          138        479        273        1218
9         1990         4           8           23           20            19              15               282            5          4          137        505        268        1290
10        1991          4          9           27            17           26               14              284            5          4           141       493        270        1294
11        1992          4          9           28           25            40              16               294            5          4           148       500        287        1360
12        1993          3          9           34           24            69              21               342           10          6           166       523        296        1503
13        1994          3          9           33           29            66              22               348           10          6           168       516        294        1504
00



- 50 -                                                            Annex 9
Total Length of Network and Number of Artesian Wells
DISTRICT                        LENGTH (m)                NUMBER OF ARTESIAN
WELILS
Damanhur                          536,297                                9
Abu Hommos                        744,397
Kafr El Dawar                     407,782
Shubra Khit                       219,192                                6
Mahlmoudiya                        195,491
Rahmaniya                          157,216
Roseta                            323,145
Dilingat                          247,396                               12
Kom Hamada                        241,022                               40
Itai El Barud                      90,444                               27
Wadi Natrun                        14,374                                8
Khosh Eisa                                                               5
TOTAL                            3,176,756                              107



Total Water Production per Ouarter and Year
(in thousand cubic meters)
Yew8 1983                    1964         1195           1986           _967           988           2969           3990            199              92             1993
Mach          13,952,363     15,477,897    16,899,214    20,056,144    20,194,183     20.419,090    20,640,186     24,285,443      26,165,100      26.274,277      28,358,386
hJe           13.215163      15,476.688    16,904,628    20.368,426    21.903,207     21,493,875    21,128.634     24,230.353      25,922.677      26,676.317      26,232,141
Se_PMber      15,476,689     17,465,824    20.611,8M8    20,527.782    21.808,970     20,682,400    24,267,998     26,275,119      26,242,974      28,396,272       28,754,168
Dember    135,475,488        18,114,066    20,932,019    20,570,206    21,117,046     21,066,423    24.247.796     25,812.657      26.707.619      28,194,252      28,631,974
TOTAL        58.119.703    66,534,475    77,347,749     1.522,5.56    85,024,006      3.,61,768    90,284.614     100.603,572     105,038,370    109,541,111      113.976,669
l                                :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-  52  -
Annex 11
Number and Capacity of Water Treatment Plants
A. Rehabilitation and Uperaded
LOCATION                    DESIGN CAPAClTY (m'/sec.)
Damanhur    No. 1                              0.300
No. 2                            0.100
Abu Hommos                                     0.720
Kafr El Dawar No. 1                            0.400
No. 2                            0.400
Shubra Khit                                    0.400
Buseili                                        0.050
[dfina                                         0.020
Mahznudiya                                     0.045
Sub Total                        2.075
B.  New Water Treatment Plants
Damanhur                                       0.600
Kafr El Dawar                                  0.500
Idfina                                         0.500
Nubariya                                       0.400
Sub Total                        2.000
C. Compact Water Treatment Units
31 units each producing                        0.023
Sub Total                        0.717
GRAND TOTAL                      4.792



- 53 -                                           Annex 12
Projected Service Population' and Water Demand2
1990                         1995                         2000
Service Population          Population     Demand          Population    Demand         Population    Demand
l_______________________  (thousands)    (MCM/yr)          (thouunds)   (MCM/yr)         (thousands)   (MCM/yr)
Urban                        969.0          35.4          1116.6         40.8          1285.9         46.9
Rural                        2453.9         71.7          2715.7         79.3          3004.7          87.7
Total                        3422.9        107.1          3832.3        120.1          4290.6         134.6
I/  Projected population in thousands based on feaibility study prepaed by Binnic Taylor, EgypL
Z/ In MCWVyr based on an average per capita consumption of 100 lcd for urban and 80 lcd for rural population.



Water Ouality Data
Damranhur Water Treatment Plant
Type or             pH                T. S.              T. Hf.             T. Alk              Iron              Colour            Turbidity           Residual           BactrioloSy          Alum
Analysis                                                                                                                                                  c12                  c/o              Added
Mouth         Raw      Treat    Raw       Treat    Raw       Tret      RPaw     Treat    Raw       Treat    Raw       Treat      Raw      Treat     Raw      Treat      Raw        Treat       Gm/m3
Jan. 1992       7.8      7.3      424      385       189       187       172       157     0.2       0.05      L5       -vc        22        L5       -vc       1.8      100%        0%           30
Feb. 1992      7.85      7.35     390      360       185       175       156       139     0.25      0.05      L!       -vc        24        L5       -vc        2       100%        0%            32
Mar. 1992      7.85      7.35     340       320      145       142       149       132      0.2      0.05      L        -vc        28       LU        -vc       1.9     1I0%         0%            38
Apr. 1992       7.9      7.4      370      325       166       151       155       132     0.3       0.05     LU        -vc        28       LU        -Yc       1.8      100%        0%            38
May 1992        7.9      7.35     372      348       139       132       135       122      0.2      0.05      L5       -vc        28       LU        -vc       1.9     10%         0%            38
Jun. 1992       7.9      7.35     368      345       162       159       166       147     0.2       0.05      L5       -vc        28        L5       -vc      2.2       190%        0%           38
Jul. 1992      7.85     7.35      328      308       140      130        151       133     0.3       0.05     L5        -vc        26      LU        -vc        2        100%        0%           36
Aug. 1992       7.9      7.35     325      312       135       133        145      135      0.3      0.05      U5       -vc        26        L5       -vc       2.2      100%        0%            36
Sqxt. 1992       8       7.4      363       328       160      145        163      143      0.25     0.09      L5       -vc        26        LS       -vc       1.8      100%        0%            36
Oct. 1992       7.9      7.35     368      345       162       159       166       147      0.2      0.05      L5       -vc        26       LU        -vc        2       100%        0%            36
Nov. 1992      7.95       7.4     375       352       169      160        167      153      0.25     0.1       L5        -vc        28      LU        -vc        2        10%        0%           38
U,
Dec. 1992       7.8      7.35     410      382       185      10        185       162      0.15     0.05      L5       -vc        26       LU        -vc       1.8       10W%       0%            36
Jan. 1993      7.86      7.34     426      384       188       177       184       160     0.1       0.05      L5       -vc        26        L5       -vc       1.9      190%        0%           36
Feb. 1993       7.9      7.35     381      352       160       140       165       147     0.2       0.05      L5       -Ke        22        L        -K        1.9      IOD%        0%            32
Mar. 1993       7.9      7.35     358       337      151       143       160     143        0.2      0.05      L5       -vc        26        L5       -vc        2        10D%       0%            36
Apr. 1993       7.9      7.35     330      312       137       134       143       131      0.15     0.05     LU        -ve        26       LU        -vc        2       10%   I   0%              36
May 1993        7.9      7.35     337      310       139       135       151       128     0.15      0.05      L5       -vc        26       LU        -vc       1.8      100%        0%            36
Jaun 1993      7.95      7.35     327      305       137       131       143       125     0.25      0.05      L5       -vc        26        L5       -vc       1.9      100%        0%            36
Jul. 1993       8        7.4      323      302       128      126        143       125     0.25      0.05     U         -vc        25      LU         -vc      2.2    =oo%           0%           35
Aug. 1993        8       7.4      333       3Ct       138      131       147       127      0.2      0.05      L5       -vc        25        U        -vc        2        IOD%        0%           34
Sep. 1993        8       7.4      347       332      145       138       155       141      0.15     0.25      L5       -vc        25       LU        -vc        2        100%       0%            34
Oct.1993       7.95      7.4      375      352       1 69      16        167       153     0.25      0.1       L5       -vc        26        L        -.vc      1.8     1I0%         0%            36
Nov. 1993      8.05      7.35     365       339       153      14        172       151      0.45     -vc       L5        -vc       26        L5        -vc      14       10%         0%           36
Dec. 1993       7.8      7.35     410       382       1-5      180   11 5          162      0.15     0.05      L5       -vc        28        L5        vc        2        190%       0%            38                         aQ   >
For all SanitsI Mm iu -vc   very clear                                                                                                                                                                                            o >
* L = less than 5 ftr colour
Li - lets gan 5 for Turbidity



Water Oualitv Data
Shobra Khit Water Treatmnent Plant
T3p  f                p7H                    T. S.                  T. H.                   T. Alk                  1mu                     C eaw                    Thb&,y                   R.A&.                   8actnloy                AlM   Addd
1mo           a-           T.         I"         TraM        Raw         Tiam         Rsw         Trf        Ra         TTeK        Rs.         Tam            Raw          Tra-T        RaW        Tr,.          Raw          Trac            G-/113
J_ 1992         7.t9        7.35       316         3DO         180         170     2t    O      160           0.2                     L5          -v              47           1c .2                    2          1O0D           0%               32
Fcb.1992         .11        7.a         410   39     0         138         132          210         160       0.2                     LS          -               45                       1.2          2          1009          0%                30
.1992             8          7.4        30         290         144         134           154         124      0.1       -     L       L          -                40                        1 .2       1.8         100%           09               25
AV.1892          *.05        7.47       242        230         134         126           144        137       0.1        -             L5         c              42           9c 1.3                  1.9         101        _  0%                26
m     1992       8.2         7.6        210         W          130         132          190         120       0.3        -c           LS          -*              40           -c          1.2         1.          180%          0%                25
Am_191           8. LI       7,7        253        230         144         136          140         120       0.2    *    cc          LS            5             40           c            . 5         2          1tO1          0%                25
Id. 119           a          7.        2n0         265         156         148          144         n24       0.4          c          LS          -cc             42          -c           1.5          2          10D%          0%                26
AN& I"2          7.83        7.48       235        230         I28         114          1(0         144       0.3        -cc        LS           -                40           -            1.3        1.9         10o%          0%                25
S|L 298          7.95        7.56       33D       3230          32         235           14         l3D        04                     Li           -c             47                        1.2    _    8          101i           0%               32
OCLI LI         7.91         7.36       33           0   30         219    140          212         170       0.4                     LS          -      e        43           _      .    1.2         1.          280%          0%                2l
"M. l98          8.83        7.3        410        4DD         2J0         192          236          M        0.4        sc            5          -C              4t           -            IJ         1.9         100%           0%               33
D      IK2       7.9         7.6        3MD        360         27c         14           210         IND       0.2        -            L5           ,              49                       1.5          2          100%     0%                     34
| ML IM         7.n         7.35       4M          480         240         132          222          84       0.2        .c           LS          *w              49          .            1.5          2          28D1         0                 34                                            @
FM1993          7.8         7.3        48          454         402         154          224        126        0.2                     LS                          47                       1.3         1.9    I     0t%          0%                32
MuaI993           8          7.6        3o         37M         D2          1230          16         170       0.2 I        c          LS    ~      c              45        -1 2                       L8          101%           01               30
Ape. 193         7.80        7.48       24D        M           116         110          130         l20       0.4        -            L5          c               43           .i          1.5          2          100%          0%                28
|11   3           A         7.5J        M          233         146         2SD          144         124       0.4        -            Li          -w              42            c          I.5          2          10%           0%                26
ii n1993          8         7.42 ta                342         24          120                      170       0.4                     LS                          48                       1.4          2          100%          0%                33
M.193             I          7.6       3           29D         116         110          138         124       0.4                     Li         -e              40        -               I5          2          200%           0%                25
Au. 193          1 .         7.7        3o0        3M0   16      0         15 3         180         170       0.2                     LS                          40           1c IS                    2          101%           0%               25
Sq.299           7.9         7.6        4D         380         190         170          190         164       0.2           -         L5          -c              40                        14        129          101%           0%               25
Ot 1993          7.9         7.5        3D         326        1[8          222          i5t         148       0.3                     L5i                         38          .vc          1.2         108         I0%           01                24
M.193 l          8.19        7.A6       43         440         2S0         146          210         176       0.1           U          3 L                        40           w            1.4         2          100%          0%                25
D.LI3           7.I 6        7.3        340        320         150         148          154         230       0.3        0.02         U LS                        40          _            1.5          2       I180             0S                25                               (JQ
Lk-  On5r  -  w
*LI - Im                  _ 5KweAuM



Water Ouality Data
Kafr El Dawar Water Treatment Plant
Typ of                pH                    T. S.                T. H.                  T. Alt                                      Cl m                   TR,Mdty                     Bd2                              ryd                    AIh  Ad
Amlyma                                                                                                                                                                                    12                          c/o
m|             K. Ta _       -a      Raw       Tma         Ra-       T-a-         Raw         Tea        Raw       Tea         Rw        1,at         Ka.         Tea           Kaw          Trt             R_             Tr                Gm/m3
| J     i992    7.85        7.77       443       4D          4D        174          14S         132                 .vc         6         .-c           32          LIS           -             I..           100%             0%                 2S
Febk1992          8         7.61       640       591         256      25D           148         132       0.08      0.06        5         .rc           32          LIS           -             1.6           100%             0%                2Z
Mar. 1992        7.S4        7.69      405       3S9         170       162           156        134        0.06     0.04         7        *rc           36           L15           .1. .0                     1001             0%                  30
|   Aer.1992     5.2         7.t       482       473         186       1IS          184         162       0.04      0.02        7         -yr           40          LIS           .c            1.8           100%             0%                 32
May 1992        7.42        7.34       39S       364        18        178          170         152       0.2       0.1         5         .vc           40          LIS           .c            1.4           400%             0                  34
|      I_M199   7.97        7.33       48        394         22S       210          144         126       0.2       0.02        5         wc            40          L15             c           1.4           100%             01                 34
di.1992         82          7.4       418       398        2D4       203           160        144        .r        -y          L5                      40          L15           .r            4.8           IOD      0%                        34
Aa. 1992         7.97        7.-7      46S       438         260       252           162        152         _        .rc         6          -           32           L15           _        _    1.4          1OD%             0%                  2S
SayL IO2         7.S4        7.7       560        512        33S       330           182         164       84        0.06        L5         c           36           L15           1c 4.6                      1001            0%                  30
06. 1991         7.8        7.74       S60       512         268       260          166         156       0.1       0.04        6          e            36          L15           wc            1.2           I001             0%                 30
N  e. 1992       7.02        7.68      448       426         33D       194           196        178        0.4      .r           7         yr           36           L15                         1.4          100%             0%                  30
De. 1992          I         7.65       460       430         22D       214          1D9         172       0.2       0.04        L5        -y            3S          LIS            .1e 4.2                    100I             01                 32
|a 1993        7.64        7.34       431       4D4    I     9        492          189         InI    0.3          0.06        5    '     r            38          LIS                         1.8           IO4           0%                  32
Feb. 1993       7.12        7.4S       436       4D4         174       170          168         I50       0.36      0.12        6         .rc           40         LUS rc                      1.6           4001            01                  34
Mr. 1993         7.8          7        442       418         164       160          180         164       0.5       0.2         7         .e            38          LIS           .vc           1.0           100%             0%                 32
Apr. 1993       7.83         7.7       440       416         2         4 196        48          46        0.15      0.15        7         we            36          LIS                          2            100S             01                 30
may 1993        7.91        7.52       376       340         168       160          152         130       0.2       0.06        6         .r            38          L15           .. 4.6                      400%            0%                  32
|    I_  4993    7.7         7.4       342       330         142       138          IS0         142       0.2       0.4         L5        *c            26          LIS           wc            4.8           400%            0%                  24
M4. 1993        7.55         7         336       324         156      134           130         13D       0.2       0.08        7          c            26          L5            .             1.8           100%            0%                  24
AS. 1993         7.42       7.34       4C8       380          a8s      178          170         152       0.2       0.1         8         wc            38          L1S                         1.8           4001             0%                 32
s|54.1993        8.2         7.4       418       396         170       164           198        182        0.3       0.06       7         .3r           3           L15            .vc          1.6           100%             0%                  32
Oct. 1993         8          7.6       444       428        2Z4        196          190         182       0.3       0.04        L5          _           38          L15                         1.-           1001            0%                  32
Nov,4993         7.9        7.65       432       414         186       178          196         186       0.2       0.06        L         .5            3t          L15           .rc            2            100%             0%                 32                                         1 r
Dec9993          7.73       7.23       438       415         271      205           19D         160       0.3       0.08        L5                      38          LIS                         1.8              1            01                  32 
F' r allS aepl Mm is -a     = weTy dc4
'L-  Ic- a 6k a ce-     Xd
*Li  =   leta 5 fh Twbtit3



Water Ouality Data
Abu Hommos Water Treatmnent Plant
Type of                pH                     T. S.                T. H.               T. Alk                  lav                   Colour                   Turbidity                   Rrsidual                     B.cutology              Alun Ad4kd
iA4Wyxis    1                                                                                                                                                                                 12                          UI
M               Rvw         Thit       Raw       Tr-a        R        Tw Tn:u     R.w       TreS       R..         Trcu       Raw         T-aa         Ra-          Tro            Raw          Ttv              Rrw             Tr.a,           Gn.n,3
J.,,4992          7.77        7.75       320       315        210       207         lag        168      0.12        -v          5          -ac           15                           vc           1.5             100%             0%               25
Fb.41992          7.8         7.92       397      370         196       193         175        160      0.075       -c          5                        1c 44         0.1            6c 46                       4070              0%               24
Mu. 1992          7.75         7.3       348       330         192      144         16S        144       0.06       0.03        6           -vc          15            0.9            vc            .4             100X             0%               25
Apr. 1992         7.75        7.44       401       455         194       92         1790       480       .27        -vc                    -vc           14            0.8             c           I 5             400             0%               24
May 4992          7.87        7.39       352       337        162       160         162        153       0.25       -v          7                        isc 15        0.0           --c           1.S            100%             0                25
JUiL 1992         7.75        7.30       276      260         140       144         143        135      0.25        -vc         6          -v            15            0.8             c            2             ]0O%              03               25
)ulm 4992         7.74        7.35      404       391         144       145         154        192      0.025       .vc        5           -c            14            0.7           vc            2.2             O0%             0%               24
A.. 1992          7.79         7.38      337       320         162      158          154       420       0.05        vc         7           -.           14            0.6             vc           I8             40%              0X               24
Sql 1992          7.71         7.3       370       349         164       450        16S        157       0.1        .vc         8           .c            15            4             -vc           2              1009             0%               25
oW. 4s9           7.67         73        3S5       357        402       178         169        160      0.025        vc         6                        1e 42         0 5             c           1.7             100%            0                23
No1M992           7.62         7.32      420       306         195      190        I48         179       0.075       .c         6                         1c 44        0.0            -             1.6            407%             0%               24                                     U1
Dc. 1992          7.73         7.4       304       304        200       190         402        171       0.25       -c          5           vc           14            0.08            c           1.5             100%             0%               24
Juc IM993         7.75        7.36       280      275         171       173         162        451      0.15          c         5          -c            43            0 8             c               4           100%             0%               25
Fb. IM993         7.75        7.36       254      253         150       147         160        144       0.05       -c          5                        1c 44         0.7            vc            .7             100%             0%               24
Mu. 1993          7.76         7.38      320       302         190      406         197        483       0.07         c         5           .vc1 5                     0.9            vc            15             I00%             0%               25
Apr. 1993          7.7         7,4       322       307         484      4]          175        463       0.05       -v.         6           -vc          14            0.6            1c .6                        O0O%             0%               24
May 1993          7.87        7.38       352       337        162       160         162        153       0.25       -vc         5           vc          145            0.8            -v           8.             100%              0%               25
4 c4993           7.67        7.35       367      332         149       145         154        444      0.1          -          5          .c            15            0.8             c           1.8            100%             0%                25
Jul. 1993        7.74         7.36      404       392         198       143         154       142       0.025       -v         7           -1c 44                      0.6            vc1.48                      I0%              0%               24
Aug. 1993         7.78        7.36       350       338        4I8       157         165        151       0.05        -c         6           -1 44                      0.6             c            2              I0%              0%               24
Sq. 1993           7.7         7.4       371       356         180      176         175        166       vc          v                       3 v                                      vc            2              4020             0%               25
Oc. 1993          7.67        7.36       403      371         175       171         185        169      0.05        -vc         5          -1c 10                      0.4           -c             2             100%              0%               22
Nva.1993          7.75         7.4       447       436        MO        194         196        I77       0.2         -c         5                        1.s  42       0.6            vc           1.7             100%             0%               23
D.c.1993          7.76         7.4       337       323        214       2           492        470       0.425       v          6          -             44            0.7            -c           1.6             10D%             0%               24                              CD
Fur All Saq4na0 Mm is -vc - vwry db r 
* L - k    dun 53fo culN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0     >U
* LI u6kw4. 5 I. TdMty



Chart 1
- 58 -
Organizational Structure of the Beheira Water Company
Chairman
Vice-Chairman                  Vice-Chairman                  Vice-Chairman                   Vice-Chairman
Administration & Personnel   Finance & Commercial Affairs             Operations      J          Planning & Projects
General Manager                General Manager                General Manager                 General Manager
Administration                    Finance                      North District                    Projects
General Manager                General Manager                General Manager                 General Manager
Personnel                  Stores & Purchases                West District               Planning & Research
I General Manager                 General Manager
Commercial                    South District
General Manager |
East District



3O~~~~O            301S'                                                                              GREECE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITURKEY
|                       |                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ lUYEY
30  NI         30'30'                                                Arroolf -op
0.                                                          (,C
ARAB
ULIYA         REPUBLIC
S*              . '0                                                 OF EGYPT
GI     A     
-                  g      ~~~~~~~IDI*t4A315           .
*:  >tIDFIN A           31-15  ;           CHAD    SUDAN
/                                -'g ea ss               ,       r      /                                 30-45'  M .          1
i t_  /                  d > ._                       t~~~~-                                              d.onom,noT,oo ond <rnY
ALEXANDRIA                          /              *'--k           /                                                                                    o o  i        h
A                                                         (11  --* p *P <  ;1' SUWA                      y, , P d
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Th.. Wodfd &,nk G-oo.
t 7 >               ' ~~~~<   \                     /          (                                MANMUDIY;2~ 0oy t br
_, - t~~J\\                                  AR                      -i                                                                        bo.ondo..eo.n
/          ~V -                      7 -  ,                            s X\\4! * o
_-\~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~\                                                   DMA4Us \t 1-1                                    \)\k  UII.AK-HIT5
Za.-pf-c. o-  t  031 R0
KAFt~ ~~~ ELr C)                                      L         =        f                
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'  'DILINGAT             \S *HIT
\                                                         ,   - ---            *' B E H E I ~~~~~~~R>X   ,/
-,                                                                                                IC, U~~~~~~HOH S
Mod,Ioteraneon                         ,-/          7          4  g5'                                              ;             ).                     ;.
Sco e a                       -jl  (~    .L: ' '                                                                                              I -)A ----
ALEXANDRS                                  KAFITEL SEI\KH                                 ARAB  REPUBLIC  OF  EGYPT                                          i)
, , 9 WS < ~~BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT Ot
EXISTG         
O2DXo'n. o~~d obo.e ,o IH. 
j  V  \    PPOJECT  \   W   -r    \\                    ~~~~~~~~~~NEW PIPELINES          --      PIPELINES 
(R  \  \    AREA    fW  \   .  \                           flrd200mm ctndeg.ono .yIeroe I 6   Uh TgREATMENT PLANTS                      L
S\6,--%S    rOEN    h                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREACOF REHASELITATED NETWORK  *    ELEVATED RESERVOIRS              A
, \\   w   CO  /\   0z>1   )                           I~~~~~~~~REATMENT PLANTS           0    ROREHOLES / WELLS (RURAI SUSIE ME       X
\30 \ I45                                                                                               3-DA UPGCADED  * 80REHOLES  / WELLS IREGIONAL I MUNICIPALIT-
KAF EL9X B  EEKH HAE I R  A        D    NEW GROUND  RESERVOPRS                   LMIT OP AREA SERVES RY AWGA 
BEHEIRA  NEW PUMPING STATIONS                         CANALS               0E
JCENTET AND STATE lOUSING               INTERAITIONAL RGU. DARIES
ROJECTe.me        S-v         a  )S1                 *    NEW DISTRICT CENTERS                        I3
IT V1lIErnI'  KhsoIVbo  >                                                                                                                                l
AREA.i0200~                                                                         TX b-          T 20 KILOMETERS
TREATMEN \  \N -  0SMILES                                                       0 W_ U Y
IF -                                              NEW  GROUND  RESERVOIR 3  L0 OD 10             ARE5  S     By  AW 5A









1c ~- 1- .- -- t-          xi -l -,                  1 3.1  _~! -,
11YFi-e:  PCI.N



