Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILEcOpy                           Report No.P-3067-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 12, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit           ;  Egyptian Pound (LE) - 100 Piasters (Pt)
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)  : US 41.43
1 US Dollar ($)         :  LE 0.70
1 SDR                   : US $1.228522
Fiscal Year
(Arab Republic of Egypt and BWC)
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
AWGA   : Alexandria Water General Authority
BWC    : Beheira Water Company
GOPW   : General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD  : General Organization for Sewerage
and Sanitary Drainage
NWSA   : National Water and Sewerage Authority
ODA    : Overseas Development Agency
PIU    : Project Implementation Unit
USAID  : United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT S7UMMARY
Borrower:                  Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiary:               Beheira Water Company (BWC),
General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) in
the Ministry of Housing, Reconstruction and Land
Reclamation
Amount:                    SDRs 46.1 million (about $56.6 million equivalent)
including SDRs 1.3 million (about $1.6 million
equivalent) to refinance a water supply
engineering credit (S-20-EGT).
Terms:                     Standard
On-lending Terms;          SDRs 43.2 million (about $53 million equivalent)
of the credit would be onlent to BWC at an
interest rate of 6 percent for 20 years plus six
years of grace. The remainder would be retained
by the Government for national training and    -
health education components and used to refinance
a water supply engineering credit.
Project Description:       The project supports the Government's policy to
decentralize responsibility for basic services to
the governorates and would introduce improved
cost recovery and financial policies in the
sector. It would provide physical facilities and
technical assistance to a newly established
agency in the Beheira Governorate (BWC). It
would rehabilitate and expand facilities in
Beheira to meet suppressed demand for safe,
reliable drinking water and provide for the
requirements of future population growth. The
project consists of the following components to
assist BWC: (i) extension of two existing plants
and construction of four new water treatment
plants; (ii) installation of trunk water mains as
well as additional storage and pumping
facilities; (iii) rehabilitation of existing
treatment plants at 9 locations and 106 boreholes
and wells including the installation of new
chlorination equipment; (iv) leak detection and
repair of selected sections of the existing
distribution system with serial extensions as
required; (v) rehabilitation of about 4000 public
standpipes with provision of proper drainage
facilities to reduce current pollution risks;
(vi) provision of headquarters and five district
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



center buildings, staff housing, vehicles and
equipment; and (vii) procurement and installation
of meters for all house and standpipe
connections.  The project  o70uld also assist the
establishment of a national water supply training
center with staff and student accommodation as
well as funds for the purchase of equipment and
vehicles, and a small program to assist health
authorities develop health measures complementary
with project objectives. Finally, consultants
services for management, engineering and training
are included in the project to assist BWC during
its formative period and to help establish the
national training center. While the project is
technically straightforward, it aims at
fundamental institutional reform and, hence,
faces more than ordinary managerial risks. It
has been, however, throroughly prepared, and the
technical assistance provided under the project
should help minimize the risks.
Estimated Project                                       US$ Million
Costs:                                       Local        Foreign       Total
Rehabilitation, distribution        1.66          3.13         4.79
Rehabilitation, source works        3.12          3.95         7.07
Meter replacement rehabilitation
wells and standpipes              3.28          2.80         6.08
Water treatment plants             13.52          8.44        21.96
Borehole, pumps and storage         0.77          0.83         1.60
Iron, manganese removal plant
and storage                       0.19          0.23         0.42
Trunk mains and distribution        7.94          9.73        17.67
System storage                      1.62          1.34         2.96
H.Q. buildings, offices and
Housing                           0.83          1.45         2.28
Chlorination equipment              0.36          0.57         0.93
Electrical connections              0.91          0.30         1.21
Telecommunications                  0.05          0.27         0.32
Training center & equipment         0.89          0.50         1.39
Land Acquisition                    5.00           -           5.00
BASE COST - SUBTOTAL         40.14         33.54        73.68
Physical contingencies              5.27          5.03        10.30
Consultant engineering and
management services               3.04          3.46         6.50
Training services and health         -            1.00         1.00
SUBTOTAL                     48.45         43.03        91.48
Price contingencies                13.33         11.97        25.30
Refinancing of Cr. S-20-EGT          -            1.60         1.60
TOTAL           61.78         56.60       118.38



Financing Plan;                                        US$ Millions
Local        Foreign      Total
IDA                                  0.00         56.60        56.60
Government                          61.78          0.00        61.78
Total                               61.78         56.60       118.38
Estimated Disbursements;  IDA FY    81         82     83      84        85       86
Annual                      2.5 1/ 3.7    11.5    20.0    15.1    3.8
Cumulative                  2.5 1/ 6.2    17.7    37.7    52.8   56.6
Rate of Return; A rate of return was not calculated because the tariffs,
which are the minimum measure of the project benefits, have yet to
be established as part of the project and hence willingness to pay
is yet to be tested.
Staff Appraisal Report; No. 3290a-EGT, dated May 7, 1981.
1/ Includes $1.6 million refinancing of Cr. S-20-EGT.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDRs 46.1 million
(about US$56.6 million equivalent) including SDRs 1.3 million (about
$1.6 million equivalent) to refinance a water supply engineering credit
(S-20-EGT) approved on December 8, 1977, to help finance the foreign
exchange cost of a provincial water supply project. The development credit
would have standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMYI/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM8O-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.       Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open Door"
policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not
a radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in the face
of changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy
there was progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of
rapid economic growth and greater prosperity.
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the government took a number
of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the gradual
devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LE), and the concurrent liberalization
of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel market
rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been devalued by 44 percent from
US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE at present. Exchange restrictions were eased,
specific import allocations were replaced by general import quotas, and
more foreign exchange was made available to both the public and private
1/ This section is the same as for the HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project
(P-3059-EGT), the documents for which were distributed to the Board on
May 6, 1981.



-2-
sector.  A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977) offered attractive
incentives to foreign firms.  'rade agreements, especially with the FEC,
opened new markets for export products; at the same time, bilateral trade
vith CONFCCN'N countries w;as much reduced.
5.        In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same
time petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at rapid
rates and workers' remittances as w7ell as tourism became significant
sources of foreign exchange.  Nevertheless, Egypt w'as facing serious
balance of paynients problems. The base from vwhich toreign exchange
revenues w7ere groV7ing was too small to meet the increase in imports
triggered by the liberalization program and the government's commitment to
providing ample supplies ot basic consumer goods at stable prices.
however, large capital inflows, primarily from the oil-rich Arab Gulf
states, sustained the "Open Door" policy during the 197>-77 perioa.  These
loans and grants also complemented the public sector's fiscal resources and
allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and public sector
investment.
6.       by the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to shovw clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid growth in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last
tvwo years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum
exports and -workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980.
On capital account, the cessation of Arab aid folloV7ing the Camp David
agreements was largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance,
and an increase in direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in
the oil sector.
7.       The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new, decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the budget considerably. Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, to 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed
investment increased from about 25 percent of CDP in the 1975-1977 period
to almost 28 percent over the last tvwo years w7ith the share of national
savings in total investment rising frorm 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in
1979; real CDP growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.       While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of
development is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing
openness and accompanying structural changes have made economic management
more difficult and changed the environment in which economic policies
operate. Inflation has emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to
1975, Egypt w7as essentially a fixed price economy and resource allocation
and investment decisions were centrally determined. Moreover,
international and domestic inflation was  olo7, so that while relative prices
may have been out of line with world prices, price inflexibility did not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has since changed
radically. The opening of the economy coincided wTith an acceleration in



- 3 -
world inflation.  At the saile tine, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several key sectors. Effective
demand, especially for consuiner goods, also rose sharply following the
income gains that resulted from the growth of tourisr, remittances and
other receipts.  All these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on
domestic prices. In a country unaccuston;ed to inflation and flexible
prices, and where there are no easily functioning mecnanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustrents appeared large and unjust.  Some small adjustments were made
and, in the iuincontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact
surge upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be
achieved. As a result the gap between w7orld prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods has continuously increased, leading to large
implicit and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted
system of relative prices and incentives.
kecent Economic Developments
9.       Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleun, sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy.  In May 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June.  As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981 (July 1980
- June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates to
describe the most recent developments.
1C.     Overall C-DP growith averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81
prices over the last four years.l/  The very high rate of growth reflects
the emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture
stands out by its lovT growTth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although
it should be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to
the 1965-75 period wThen growth averaged 1.5 percent.  The combination of
continued growth in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices
has resulted in considerable changes in the structure of CDP. The share of
petroleunm in value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19
percent in FY81.
11.      Procuction of crude petroleum is at present averaging close to
650,000 barrels a day (32 million tons a year).  There is general agreement
in Egypt and among foreign observers that the proven reserves attached to
Egypt's large established petroleum, fields could not sustain production at
present rates beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last tw7o
years Egypt has added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven
reserves largely through a continuous stream of small discoveries.
Investment in exploration by foreign oil companies has increased
1/ In 1975 prices real growith w70uld decline to 8.5 percent, the difference
being due to the changed petroleum prices.



-4-
dramatically since the oil price increase of mid-1979 and is expected to
average at least $600 million annually for the next few years. Civen the
performance achieved over the last two years and the massive investment
program, it is only reasonable to assume that new discoveries will continue
to occur. The magnitude of these discoveries remains, of course, highly
uncertain.
12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent
in FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of
existing gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully
release additional quantities of petroleum for export. However, the level
of the exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by over 11 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to GDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977. The marked
improvement in the balance of payments since 1979 has allowed for some
buildup in foreign exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at
end-1980 (about one and a half months of imports). Despite the apparent
strength of the balance of payments, certain structural features are worth
noting: (i) Agricultural and manufactured exports constitute only a very
small fraction (10 percent) of Egypt's foreign exchange receipts.
Petroleum ($3.1 billion in FY81), Workers' Remittances ($3 billion), the
Suez Canal ($0.9 billion) and foreign capital inflows ($2.9 billion)
dominate the accounts. (ii) Food imports, at $2.6 billion, are almost
equal to petroleum earnings. Moreover, with severely limited arable land
and a growing population, Egypt's dependence on imported food is likely to
grow. (iii) The share of imported capital goods in overall investment is
high. Along with import requirements of industrial raw materials, this
implies a continued high import dependence in the medium term.
14.      The liberalization of Egypt's trade and payments system has
contributed significantly to the balance of payments performance. However,
by enhancing capital mobility (through the creation of the so called "free"
foreign exchange market 1/) financial liberalization has made it more
1/  The official exchange rate applies to transactions taking place within
the framework of the government's foreign exchange budget and has been
fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0 since January 1979. However, the free market
exchange rate has fluctuated between LE 0.75 and LE 0.85 per $1.0 over
the last two years.



difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies entirely divorced
from external circumstances. Attempts to keep domestic interest rates much
below world levels will lead to private capital outflows and an upward
pressure on the "free" market exchange rate. Policies to mobilize private
savings through the development of a domestic capital market must,
therefore, be complemented by an interest rate policy that acknowledges the
growing sensitivity of capital movements to the relative structure of
incentives.
15.      Most "competitive" imports and exports were shifted to the
parallel market rate of LE 0.70 per dollar at the end of 1977. The rate
applying to these transactions has thus remained constant since 1977.
Since inflation in the domestic Egyptian economy has been somewhat more
rapid than inflation affecting the real value of the dollar, the purchasing
power parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowly but steadily
appreciated wlith respect to the dollar over the last 3 to 4 years. Egypt
faces the typical problem of real appreciation characterizing many natural
resource and oil exporting economies. While oil and service receipts have
shown spectacular growth, non-oil merchandise exports have declined in
volume since the mid-1970's. Part of this decline may be due to the
necessity of replacing Egypt's traditional Eastern European markets with
outlets in the convertible currency areas. But the transition should by
now have been achieved and increasingly the problem may be due to an
erosion of Egypt's competitive cost position and a shift of incentives
against exports. The trend towards real appreciation has also reduced the
profitability of import competing activities. The situation is
complicated, however, by the subsidies provided to domestic producers
through low energy prices and other subsidized inputs. These subsidies
allowl competitive production of some exports and import substitutes inspite
of the appreciating real exchange rate. The medium and long-term prospects
for the volume and composition of merchandise trade, therefore, are
intimately tied to developments in price and exchange rate policies.
16.      While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a continuous improvement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of ClDP. The
1980 budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included
several proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures.
The most important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in
electricity tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a
reduction in consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were
dropped when a new Government took office in May 1980.  A different set of
measures were announced and a new budget presented to the People's Assembly
in response to growing signs of social tension and based on the additional
revenues provided by the petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to
public sector employees, the prices of several commodities were reduced and
the government embarked on a large scale import program. The declared



- 6 -
objectlve of the neat budget and the accompanying measures was to break
inflationary expectations, raise incomes of cisadvantaged groups and
reaffirm the government's commitment to ample supplies of basic commodities
at stable prices.
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit vwill
decline substantially as a percentage of GDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the
current budget will actually be in surplus. This improved situation is due
to the additional resources provided by the petroleum. sector and the Suez
Canal. Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than tripled
since 1978 (9.1 percent of (-UP in FY81), more than offsetting the
deteriorating trend in Central Government savings. This massive increase
in public revenues has reduced the need for domestic bark financing fromr
more than 9 percent of CDP in 1979 tc less than 5 percent in FY8I, the
lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last fevw years. This has not
so far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of
the banking system has been more than compensated by much more rapid growth
in net foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments.
Since a large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the
government, domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the
expansionary monetary effect of public sector operations. During the
present phase of foreign asset accumulation, monetary control recuires
special sterilization policies so that the fiscal improvement can reduce
the urderlying inflationary pressure which constitutes such a crucial
source of concern for Egyptian policymakers and which is an obstacle to
many of the required reforms in the areas of pricing and institutional
change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a
key geographical location.  Future economic growth may come less easily,
however, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute.
domestic for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign
contributions decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are novw strained in a
number of sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new,
capacities has been slovwed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate
fiscal resources and weakness in national coordination and sector
programming. Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial
incentives for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic
activity together w7ith labor emigration have led to shortages in critical



professional and techlnical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still
reflect a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recert years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only weak lirkages tc agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for
about 22 percent of C-DP but only one percent of total employment. While
tourism an6 remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number
of people, they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and
technological development.  'Moreover, the long-term real growth potential
for receipts from petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The
challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of charneling a good part of the
surpluses and revenues irom these "natural resource" based sectors, into
productive investment in agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in
order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining grovrth and employment
expansion in the domestic economy.  There is tremendous scope for improving
the efficiency and dynamism of domestic institutions and production
processes, particularly at a time when overall resource constraints have
been eased and the absence of short-term crises provides a valuable
opportunity to address the difficult problems of long-term strujctural and
technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show7 that
population has continued to grovw at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent,
adding almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. Althougl the
government has initiated a more aggressive population program, it will take
considerable time and further measures to achieve measurable results in
fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence cf
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, n-ajor efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of government administration through organization and
procedural moditications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii)
increase real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of
domestic resources and fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of



-8-
prices as meaningful indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a
long-term export promotion policy including appropriate management of
incentives and real effective exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and
balanced program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; and
finally (vi) intensify efforts to develop a coherent and effective
population policy. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative Group for
Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of June 30, 1980, was estimated at about $12.6 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about 7.9 billion or about 63 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6 percent
of the total disbursed debt. Debt service payments on medium- and
long-term debt have fluctuated around 20 percent of export earnings during
the last few years.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in the overall
resource situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a
longer term perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is
still a relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to
55 million by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if
Egypt is to meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need
for continued large foreign capital inflows in the medium-term.
26.      If Egypt can successfully develop its export and import competing
sectors, and given the significant amounts of concessional aid flows, it
should be able to meet some of its foreign exchange requirements through
borrowing on commercial terms. In the medium- and long-term, debt
servicing as a percentage of exports is expected to remain at around
18 percent during the next five years. In the longer-term, the debt
service ratio will depend on domestic policies and on developments in the
oil sector.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT I/
27.      The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fifty-seventh
lending operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $2129.2 million. 2/ Through these operations, the Bank Group has
assisted in the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy,
water supply, population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism,
urban and education sectors. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and
IDA credits as of March 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors. Its strategy involves entry into a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relacively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which
can tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional
capability to articulate and implement future policies and investment
programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has
been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the
Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and
implement the programs.
29.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Fish Farming Development Project
(P2958-EGT) which was approved by the Board on March 17, 1981.
2/  This includes $64 million for the HADISOLB Rehabilitation Project
(P-3059-EGT) distributed to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1981.



- 10 -
projects). The more fundaniental effort has been directed at irtroducing
policy and structural improvements.  Towards this end, the Bank has
financea six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Lank Las also carried out a study on small-scale industries. Finally,
the bank is assisting the government in a comprehensive study of the
construction/contracting industry, which is one of the major bottlenecks
facing Egyptian industry today.
30.      The illustrative sketch Frovided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy.  It is a role that is in harmony not only vith the
Egyptian Government 's wishes but is w7elcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, population and nutrition, trans-
portation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage), development
finance and industry.
31.      Bank Croup disbursements in FY81 represented about 10 percent of
total disbursements on grants and mediumr- and long-term loans.  The Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disFursed were about
3.2 percent and 2.4 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1980. For the
future, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.8 and
3.5 percent respectively in FY85. It is estimated that in 1981, debt
service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.4 percent
and 0C.2 percent, respectively, of service payTrents due on Egypt's external
debt.
32.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Fgypt nowT total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex,
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1979); a fish farming
project (1979); a building material project (1980); and a tourism project
(1980). IFC is discussing several other private sector and joint venture
projects.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
33.      The predominant source of water for Egypt is the Nile River, which
provides an assured supply of 55 billion m3 of water each year.  With an
expanding population, a growing industrial base and increasing demands for



- 11 -
agriculture, there are competing claims on its use. A UNDP financed Water
Master Plan study, for which the bank is executing agency, is now underway
and the first phase has been completed. The Master Plan is being prepared
w7ithin the context of Egypt's long-term perspective for social and economic
development over the next 25 years, but will also give recommendations on
short-term policy and investment issues.  As far as potable water is
concerned, however, the major issue is not likely to be the shortage of
water for potable use since this represents only a small fraction (5 to 6
percent) of Egypt's available water resources. Rather the areas of concern
are associated with water cuality and the distribution of adequate
quantities to consumers.
34.      Potable water is drawin fron two sources:  either groundwater or
directly from the Nile and irrigation canals.   South of Cairo, ground
water is usually of good quality although sometimes containing iron and
manganese salts. To the north of Cairo and in the Fayoum Depression,
ground water may be brackish and require filtration and blending with
sweeter surface water. Ground water in the coastal areas of the Delta is
generally not suitable for human consumption because of salt intrusion, and
communities depend entirely on surface water.
Institutional Arrangements
35.      Responsibility in Egypt for providing a public water service is
presently divided among a number of authorities. In Cairo and Alexandria,
separate authorities which conmenced operations as private utility
companies in the last century are now responsible to the local Governor.
The Canal Zone cities of Port Said, Ismailia and Suez are served by the
Suez Canal Authority. Outside of these areas, vater supply and production
are the responsibility of: the C-eneral Organization for Potable Water
(COPW) which serves numerous towns, villages and rural communities, mainly
in the Delta; municipal authorities, for the larger provincial towns; and
Governorate authorities, for the remaining smaller communities. The
municipalities and governorate authorities rely on the GOPW for design and
construction assistance but then operate the systems independently.
36.      Responsibility for the provision of sewerage services throughout
most of Egypt lies with the General Organization for Sewerage and Sanitary
Drainage (GOSSD).  The COSSD designs, constructs and maintains sewerage and
drainage facilities in all Egyptian towns, except the Alexandria system
which is a separate local entity and the Cairo sewerage system which is
currently being established. Its technical services are made available to
the governorates which operate and maintain provincial sewyerage and
drainage systems. In addition to Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone
cities, 10 cities in Lower Egypt and four cities in Upper Egypt have
sewTerage systems.  Drainage systems without treatment facilities exist in a
further 12 Delta towns.  Authorities in the water supply and sewerage
sector are generally overseen by the FMinistry of Housing, Reconstruction
and Land Reclamation.



- 12 -
Sector Constraints and Policies
37.      The sector has benefitted from a number of studies financed by
several donor agencies including the Bank, from wlhich the following picture
emerges. It is estimated that betwTeen 10 and 20 percent of the urban
population and more than 50 percent of the rural population are not
adequately served vwith safe water.  For sewerage, only 40 percent of the
urban population is served by public services. This situation has
adversely affected health and has contributed to Egypt's high infant
mortality rate. Operations in the sector, particularly outside the larger
authorities serving the major cities, are handicapped by systems which are
often old, overloaded, underdesigned and poorly maintained. Operational
deficiencies are caused by a dearth of sufficiently skilled staff. Losses
through leakage are estimated at up to 50 percent of total water provided
in some systems. Coordination in the sector is difficult to achieve as
responsibility for operations and policy is fragmented among several
government agencies and betwTeen the central and local authorities.
Excessive central government involvement has stifled local accountability
and initiative without providing for clear policy directions or national
standards or for planning and implementing priority investment programs.
In particular, GOPW and GOSSD, as presently structured, have found it
difficult to fulfill their functions effectively because they are
constrained by government controls and regulations and are not themselves
performance oriented. Finally the sector has suffered from inadequate
levels of investment and cost recovery. water tariffs are lowv and no cost
recovery is made for sevwerage. It is estimated that for provincial water
supplies, revenues cover no more than one third of expenditures. To
improve the situation, reorganization is required, staff needs to be
trained, operating procedures changed and investments substantially
increased.
38.      The Government is fully aware of the above shortcomings and is
moving to decentralize operations in the sector as well as provide
substantial funds for its activities. Of the estimated LE1.7 billion ($2.5
billion at 1979 prices) which will be needed by the year 2000 to improve
public water supply facilities in the provinces, the (-overnment has
budgeted LE500 million for the 1980-90 water decade, in the expectation
that matching funds could be provided by outside agencies.  Associated with
wiater supply improvements, it is estiniated that waste water disposal in
urban provincial Egypt in the year 2000 Vwill cost about LE 1 billion ($1.4
billion) at 1979 prices.   The Government has been able to attract a
substantial amount of external financing for the expansion of water and
sewerage facilities in the major cities: the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), for water supply and sewerage in
Alexandria and the Canal Cities; USAID and the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Association (ODA), for Cairo sewTerage; and the Bank, for the
Alexandria Water General Authority (AWGA) under Loan 1369-EGT (para. 40).
39.      In contrast, the needs of the secondary cities and rural areas had
received little attention until studies financed by the Water Supply



- 13 -
Engineering Credit (S-20) were carried out in cooperation with, and under
the direction of, the GOPW. The studies' principal objectives were (i) to
study provincial water supply priorities outside the major cities; (ii) to
review the existing organizational arrangements and recommend
improvements; and (iii) prepare a water supply project suitable for
external financial assistance in the Delta. The recommendation to form
separate provincial water supply entities with full responsibility for
delivery of service, which emerged, is in line with Government policies
aimed at eftective local control.  The powers of the governors are now
being specified more clearly, through supplementary legislation, to meet
this objective. The Government's decision to establish the Beheira Water
Company (BWC) as the beneficiary of the proposed credit to operate wyater
supply facilities in the governorate under public company law 60/1971 is a
landmark for the sector and will provide a learning experience which can be
applicable throughout provincial Egypt in furtherance of the Government's
decentralization objectives. At the same time, the Government has been
moving to decentralize the sewTerage sub-sector: an autonomous waste water
authority for Alexandria has been created separate from the GOSSD and
similar arrangements are being made for Cairo.  It is now the C-overnment's
intention to merge the C-OPW and the GOSSD and create a National Water and
Sewerage Authority (NWSA), vThile responsibility for the day-to-day
operations in the sector would be handed over to the governorates during a
transitional period.  The NWSA would monitor broad policies, set technical
standards in the potable and wastewater fields, provide technical
assistance to and plan and build major projects in individual governorates,
and promote inter-governorate cooperation for effective use of resources
and manpower. A draft Presidential decree to this effect is currently
under review in Egypt.
Bank Lending in the Sector
40.      The proposed credit would be the third Bank/IDA lending operation
in the water supply sector in Egypt. In February 1977, the Executive
Directors approved a 356 million loan (Loan 1369-EGT) for a project
designed to provide additional water treatment capacity and related
facilities for the AWCA. All contracts have been awarded, and progress is
generally satisfactory. The second lending operation was the Water
Engineering Credit (S-20) approved in December 1977 (para. 39). The
studies financed by this credit were completed in February 1980, and the
credit was closed in June 1980. As far as future Bank lending in the
sector is concerned, the studies also identified other high priority
capital works programs as well as a ten year emergency investment program
to repair service works and distribution in the other Governorates. It was
agreed that by December 31, 1982, the Government would prepare a detailed
program of urgent rehabilitation works for review with the Association
(Project Agreement, Section 2.07).
Water Supply in the Project Area
41.       The Governorate of Beheira is located in the northwest corner of



- 14 -
the Delta (attached map). Its population is currently estimated at about
2.75 million and is expected to rise to 3.5 million by 1990.
Approximately three quarters live in the rural areas and are engaged
primarily in agriculture. The remaining population is located in 13 urban
centers, the largest of which is the capital city of Damanhur.  Over two
million of the inhabitants receive public water supplies from the operating
authorities, 25 percent through individual connections and the remainder,
mostly in rural areas, from nearly 5000 public standpipes. The level of
service, however, is generally inadequate; the quality of water delivered
is considered poor by normal public utility criteria and may in some
instances represent a health risk. Standards may be expected to decline
further unless remedial measures are taken. The main source of drinking
water is by surface abstractions from the canals and the Rosetta branch of
the Nile, but over a third is obtained from groundwater in those areas
where water quality is suitable.
42.       The COPW provides over 65 percent of total supply in Beheira with
the remainder being produced from municipal treatment plants, boreholes run
by thie governorate and by imports from the two neighbouring governorates.
The total production of water from public services is about 200,000 m3/day
although up to 50 percent is lost or otherwise not accounted for. To meet
the current estimated average daily demand, 270,000 m3/day of production is
required. Production shortages, excessive leaks and unbalanced pumping
capacity are factors which have created problems in keeping the systems
fully pressurized. When delivery fails in rural areas, consumers are
forced to use polluted canals and shallow wells. Some parts of the rural
distribution system are completely without water.
The Beneficiary
43.       The project facilities would be operated by the Beheira Water
Company (BWC), a Governorate joint stock company formed (by Governor's
Decree Number 198 of March 28, 1981) under the provisions of public sector
company law 60/1971, as amended. The company, the first public utility to
be formed under this legal framework, was just recently established within
the context of project preparation as a first major step in the
Government's decentralization effort. The law allows BWC, as a public
company, to set up its own personnel and internal regulations which is an
improvement over the present situation in the sector where there have been
serious constraints. The assets of BWC include all of the public water
operators in the governorate including COPW's regional facilities, eight
municipal wTater departments, and about 50 rural borehole schemes operated
by Housing Departments in the area. BWC is under the authority of the
Governor as Chairman of its General Assembly, which reviews and approves
major decisions covering policy, annual budgets, accounts and borrowings.
The company's Board is responsible for the definition of internal
regulations with regard to company organization, management, staffing,
accounting and financial systems to ensure that sound management meets the
company's objectives. The Chairman of the Board, who is the Company's
chief executive, has been appointed and is satisfactory to the Bank. The



- 15 -
company's takeover of full operational responsibility for existing
facilities and such staff as are to be transferred will be carried out
through a phased program for which consultant assistance is provided in the
project. It is estimated that this transfer will take place by June 30,
1983. A satisfactory program and timetable for it will be submitted to IDA
by the BWC not later than March 31, 1982 (Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
PART IV - ThE PROJECT
Project History
44.      The project originated from studies financed by the Water Supply
Engineering Credit (para. 39) and was initially identified by a Bank
mission which visited Egypt in April 1979.   The project was prepared by
the GOPW, wTith the assistance of consultants financed under the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), and appraised in October 1980. Negotiations
were held in Washington from April 6-13, 1981. The Egyptian delegation was
led by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy. A staff
appraisal report entitled "The Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply
Project"(No.3290a-EGT), dated May 7, 1981, is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
45.      The main aim of the project is to pioneer the Government's new
policy to decentralize responsibility for water supply services to the
governorates including the introduction of cost recovery provisions so that
the sector can be financially viable. It has two other major objectives:
(i) to assist in the provision of nationwide training for the sector, which
is required if decentralization is to succeed; and (ii) to rehabilitate and
expand the existing facilities in Beheira to fulfill suppressed demand for
safe, reliable drinking water and provide for the requirements of future
population growth. Specifically, the project will double existing
production capacity and increase supply (water available for consumption)
from a current 99,000 m3/day to 294,000 m3/day by 1990 in order to serve an
additional 800,000 inhabitants. The lessons learned from the establishment
of the new company, as well as improvements in operational and management
techniques, are expected to be replicable throughout the sector.
46.      The project consists of the following components to assist the BWC:
(i) extension of two existing plants and construction of four new water
treatment plants; (ii) installation of 250 km. trunk water mains as well
as additional storage and pumping facilities; (iii) rehabilitation of
existing treatment plants at nine locations and 106 boreholes and wells
including the installation of new chlorination equipment; (iv) leak
detection and repair of selected sections of the existing distribution
system with serial extensions as required; (v) rehabilitation of about
4000 public standpipes with provision of proper drainage facilities to
reduce current pollution risks; (vi) provision of headquarters and five



- 16 -
district center buildings, staff housing, vehicles and equipment; and (vii)
procurement and installation of meters for all house and standpipe
connections. The project also includes: provision of a national water
supply training center with staff and student accommodation as well as
funds for the purchase of equipment and vehicles, and a small program to
assist health authorities develop health measures complementary with
project objectives to encourage consumers to make proper use of water and
follow good sanitation procedures. The Government has agreed that it will
develop such a health education program in consultation with local health
authorities and submit it to IDA for review not later than December 31,
1982 and implement the program promptly (Project Agreement, Section 2.06).
Finally, consultants services for management, engineering and training are
included in the project to assist the BWC during its formative period and
to help establish the national training center.
Training
47.      A study of training requirements carried out during project
preparation identified manpower levels for the sector. It proposed greatly
enlarged training activities to improve the standard and efficiency of
existing operations in the sector and specifically to meet the manpower
requirements of BWC. Initially this will be done by making temporary use
of available facilities and concentrating on practical on-the-job training
with the assistance of outside technical assistance, to be replaced by
local staff as soon as they themselves are trained. A preliminary training
program for the next three years has already been developed. The project
includes physical facilities and technical assistance for the establishment
of a national water training center in Damanhur, which is expected to
provide the main source of trained staff for BWC and the sector as a
whole. While it is being set up, in-house and on-the-job training will be
provided to BWC through management consultancy assistance, and this process
has already started with consultants engaged with funding from the PPF.
The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1981 it will submit for
IDA's review, a detailed training program, which vwill be implemented in
accordance with a schedule to be agreed upon; and that by December 31, 1982
it will submit for IDA's review a detailed plan of action for the operation
of the Damanhur National Training Center (Project Agreement, Section
2.04). Because of the importance of training to BWC, it has agreed that it
will appoint a training officer, not later than December 31, 1981 to
coordinate training activities (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(c)).
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.      The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties, is
estimated at $118.38 million, of which $56.6 million, or 48 percent, are
foreign exchange costs. A detailed cost breakdovin is provided in the
summary. The overall cost estimates, which were prepared by the
consultants and GOPW and updated during appraisal with construction costs
and equipment prices for similar work being undertaken by the AWGA under
Loan 1369, are considered reasonable. They include appropriate physical
and price escalation contingencies of 15 and 34 percent on the total base
cost estimate. A total of 1360 manmonths (80 percent could be supplied by



- 17 -
Egyptians) have been included in the project for consultancy services and
average $4800 per manmonth, which includes salaries, local costs and
overheads. The credit also includes $981,800 to refinance the amount made
available under the PPF and $1.6 million to refinance the water supply
engineering credit (Cr. S-20-EGT).
49.      The proposed credit of SDRs 46.1 million (about *56.6 million
equivalent) would cover the entire foreign exchange cost and 48 percent of
the total project cost. The credit would be made to the Government, and
$53 million (including contingencies) would be onlent to BWC under a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA; in recognition of the fact
that the beneficiary is a new company, the first of its kind to be
established as part of a wider decentralization scheme, and that the
project would largely benefit the rural and urban poor and have significant
health benefits, an onlending rate of 6 percent is considered appropriate,
and BWC would repay this loan to the Government in 20 years plus a grace
period of six years (Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). Execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of effectiveness (Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01). The Government has agreed that it will provide
the local cost requirements of the project to BWC in the form of equity,
and in addition it will provide, or cause to be provided, the funds for
BWC's cash flow requirements for proper operations, to the extent not
covered from its own sources (Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). The
remaining $2.0 million is reserved for the national training center,
including equipment and services, and the health component (Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01(b)); and $1.6 million would be used to refinance
the water supply engineering credit.
Project Implementation
50.      Because BWC is still in the process of formation, the project
would be implemented by a project implementation unit (PIU), already
functioning within GOPW with the assistance of consultants financed under
the PPF. The consultants have completed preliminary work on the
organization charts for BWC, functional and job descriptions, alternative
salary and incentive structures, and an outline of management, planning,
reporting and accounting systems, as well as training and manpower
requirements. These will be reviewed and finalized during actual
implementation, and the provision of continued technical assistance to the
GOPW to implement the project and to BWC to assist in organization and
management has been included in the project. The management assistance
includes: definition of the composition of the operational divisions;
finalization of job descriptions, manpower plans and training/recruitment
programs; development of accounting, budgeting, billing, financial and
management reporting systems and procedures; assisting in the assets
transfer to BWC; assisting BWC in developing its tariff proposals as well
as in the implementation of the above through a detailed phased program.
The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1981 it will appoint
suitably qualified engineering and management consultants in consultation
with BWC, where required, on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA (Project Agreement, Sections 2.03, 3.02(a)).   At the conclusion of
the management consultants' work, BWC has agreed to submit its



- 18 -
recommendations to the Government and IDA for review and adopt such
structures and financial and administrative procedures as are satisfactory
to them (Project Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
51.      The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1985.  With
design work and preparation of bid documents nearing completion, it is
expected the bidding wzill take place in mid-1981, with the first contract
awards to immediately follow credit effectiveness. The process of
acquiring the land on which new plants are to be constructed has been
largely completed; that needed for the national training center is still to
be purchased, but no difficulties are foreseen in this regard. The project
w,ill be monitored by performance and progress indicators satisfactory to
the Association (Project Agreement, Section 2.09(b)). As for the
availability of water, the existing abstraction rights will continue to
apply for all sources of drinking water, and no difficulties are
anticipated in obtaining the additional supplies from the sources presently
in use.
Procurement
52.      All equipment supply and the rehabilitation of the distribution
systems and the treatment plants would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance wyith the Association's
Guidelines for procurement, and contracts would be suitably grouped. A
margin of preference of 15 percent, or customs duties, whichever is less,
would be allovwed domestic manufacturers. General civil and building work
would be executed by Egyptian contractors under the project, as they are
highly competitive, particularly with regard to pipelaying and construction
of water treatment plants. In addition, asbestos cement pipes up to 600 mm
in diameter are manufactured and widely used in Egypt but may not be
competitive above certain sizes. The major rehabilitation works are to be
executed by supply and build contracts, internationally bid, among
experienced contractors vTho wTould be pre-qualified. It is proposed that
pipelaying contracts for pipes of smaller diameter will be executed by
combined supply and lay contracts; above 400 mm the civil wTorks contracts
would be for laying only. In the interests of efficiency and economy, a
selected number of contracts may be awarded after inviting quotations from
at least three reliable contractors or suppliers or carried out by the
BWC's wiork force through force accounts; the individual value of such
contracts wiould not exceed $200,00O and be restricted to $1,000,000 in the
aggregate (Project Agreement, Schedule 1, Section C).
Disbursements
53.      The proposed credit would be disbursed over approximately four and
a half years (excluding ongoing disbursements under the PPF) as follows:
(i) 25 percent of total expenditures of civil works for treatment plants,
pipelines, buildings, etc; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of
equipment and materials imported directly, 100 percent of local expenditure
ex-factory and 80 percent of expenditures for imported goods procured
locally; (iii) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures
for expatriate or local consultants services for project implementation;



- 19 -
and (iv) 100 percent of foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for
the training and health components and 25 percent for the civil works for
the training center. Disbursements to refinance the engineering credit
(Cr. S-20-FGT) would be against 100 percent of foreign expenditures.
Financial Position and Tariffs
54.      Based on a review of their performance during the past five years,
the existing entities' income from operations in Beheira has been about one
third of operating expenses and from 15 to 20 percent of total operating
costs when depreciation is included. System management and pricing policy
are the two major causes of these deficits. Unaccounted for water and the
policy of providing free standpipe supplies, which represent about half of
total consumption, have meant that the volume of water available for sale
is reduced to a small fraction of total production. Thus of the 200,000
m3/day produced, only 99,000 m3/day can be accounted for, of which 46,000
m3/day is delivered free at standpipes. The situation is aggravated by the
almost complete lack of effective billing and of reliable metering for
private connections (up to 70% of the meters are inoperative) while
connections at standpipes are unmetered. Moreover, the pricing policy
applied to this residual charging base has remained unchanged since 1961,
thereby exacerbating the poor financial performance of the entities and
contributing to a lack of understanding among consumers of the real costs
of providing water. Current tariffs average 2.2 piasters/m3 as compared
with the projected average incremental cost of production and distribution
which is 13 piasters/m3.
55.      Progress towards helping BWC reach financial viability will
necessitate a gradual increase in overall average tariff levels to
connected consumers, as well as arrangements for charging for standpipe
supplies in the future without disturbing the social and health
considerations of the present C-overnment policies. However, there are
several considerations which should be borne in mind in developing a
realistic water tariff policy for BWC. First, the availability of free
alternative supplies from untreated canal water or unprotected groundwater
sources is likely to be regarded by consumers as a substitute if treated
water is perceived as too expensive given their ability to pay. An
attitude survey, carried out during project preparation, indicated that
most people in Beheira value safe public water and its benefits and seem
prepared to pay for it; but the extent of their willingness has yet to be
tested. Second, until the completion of rehabilitation works and main
project facilities under the project, a reliable public water supply will
not be available to most consumers, and it would be unrealistic to expect
them to pay higher charges for unsatisfactory service. Third, the
Governorate is large, and its population includes comparatively wealthy
people with a large portion of the very poorest. This suggests that there
is a need to charge the average incremental cost to those able to afford
it, possibly combined with some degree of cross-subsidization. To achieve
this objective a differential tariff system is essential. During
negotiations, the Government and BWC agreed to a phased approach to tariff
increases and standpipe charges, which would be synchronized with
improvements in service and metering under the project and which includes
the following cost recovery objectives: (i) BWC will implement tariff



- 20 -
proposals, satisfactory to the Association, by July 1, 1982; (ii) starting
from its fiscal year 1983, the Government and BWC will ensure that BWC's
revenues from operations will be adequate to cover all expenditures for
operation and maintenance; and (iii) in each succeeding year the C-overnment
and BWC will ensure that additional revenues w7ill be generated so that by
its fiscal year 1987, BWC's revenues will be adequate to cover its expenses
for operation and maintenance costs as well as debt service not covered by
depreciation (Credit Agreement, Section 3.04; Project Agreement, Sections
4.04 and 4.05).
56.      because the Government views the delivery of standpipe water as
part of the basic services which its local agencies provide, mostly on
social and health grounds, recovery of revenues for standpipe usage would
be achieved in two phases. In the first phase, the local authorities in
the Governorate would contribute for standpipe usage on the basis of an
annual charge per standpipe. The Government and BWC have agreed that by
July 1, 1982 the local authorities will pay BWC annual amounts for each
public standpipe and that these amounts will be established annually, in
accordance with methods satisfactory to IDA (Credit Agreement, Section
3.04; Project Agreement, Section 4.05). Proposals for the method of
establishing the charges and the amount of the first annual charges to be
introduced would be submitted to IDA for review and comment; thereafter,
they would be submitted four months prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year (Project Agreement, Section 4.05). In the second phase, after
complete metering of standpipes has been achieved under the project, the
local authorities may wish to continue to pay for life-line supplies at
standpipes, but may also adopt procedures for charging consumers for excess
amounts. This would discourage waste, help spread the cost of providing
wTater more equitably over all consumers and avoid an excessive burden on
connected consumers through cross-subsidization or on the local Government
budget. The Government and BWC have agreed that: BWC will submit to the
Government and IDA for review and comment, by June 30, 1984, its proposals
for charging consumers for standpipe usage; upon the Government's approval
of BWC's proposals, these will be implemented promptly and the local
authorities will continue to provide payments for such supplies to BWC, to
the extent not covered from direct charges to standpipe consumers (Credit
Agreement, Section 3.04(d); Project Agreement, Section 4.06).
57.      As far as private connections are concerned, the tariff proposals
referred to in para. 55 should provide for a basic minimum supply at a
price which can be afforded by all consumers and for charging the
incremental cost of water to consumers able to afford the full cost of
service. The objective would be to reach an average tariff, in the first
full year of operation of project facilities, which, with the assistance of
a differential tariff system, will be appropriate in terms of economic cost
recovery and meet the Covernment's social and BWC's financial objectives.
Periodic increases in the average tariff will be necessary, and it will be
important to monitor closely the average level in these early years to
ensure that these objectives are properly met.
58.      SWC's projected financial statements represent consolidated
accounts of the future constituents of BWC on the basis of a gradual



- 21 -
build-up of the company and implementation of its organizational structure
coupled with improvements in service, metering, and billing and the
introduction of new accounting systems. Even though BWC's internal revenue
potential appears to be weak during the initial years, the fact that this
potential is growing means that BWC can eventually eliminate the need for
external funding. By its fiscal year 1987, BWC should be able to
contribute towards its investment requirements; internal funds would be
equivalent to about 1.0 percent of total net fixed assets in operation,
increasing to 4.3 percent in 1990. Debt service would be adequately
covered from 1987 onwards, in the range 1.5 and 2.0 times. BWC has agreed
that it will value and revalue from time to time, its fixed assets,
including those to be transferred to BWC from its constituents, using a
method satisfactory to IDA (Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
Justification
59.      The proposed project is a landmark in the Government's attempts to
decentralize basic services, in this case the provincial water supply
sector. The establishment of BWC, a Governorate public sector company to
be run along performance oriented lines, can demonstrate the benefits of
good management and provide lessons applicable to other governorates. It
can also act as a catalyst for improvements in the industry as a whole.
60.      The project is designed to correct the current unsatisfactory
situation in public water supply service in Beheira by ensuring that the
maximum numbers of consumers will enjoy safe, reliable water through
upgrading and expansion of the existing facilities. Besides improving
supplies for over two million existing consumers, the project will provide
water to an additional 800,000 of which 600,000 are the urban and rural
poor. Additional water supply in the urban areas will not cause problems
because satisfactory provision exists or is being made for wastewater
disposal; similarly in the rural districts traditional sanitation measures
will continue to be used. To ensure the maximum benefit is obtained from
the project, a sum of W200,000 has been included to assist public health
authorities in promoting health measures complementary vTith project
objectives. The project would continue to rely on the present combination
of surface and groundwater sources which, after seven different options
were costed, proved the least cost solution.
61.      The proposed project would produce a number of benefits in terms
of health and in safeguarding basic supplies, which either cannot be
quantified or are not fairly measured by prices consumers would pay for
these supplies. Because of the unquantified but nonetheless real benefits,
it has not been possible to establish a meaningful economic rate of return
for the project; the tariffs, which are the minimum measure of these
benefits, have yet to be established as part of the project, and hence
willingness to pay can only be tested in the future. Hlowever, at a
discount rate of 8 percent the economic analysis suggests that the tariffs
proposed for BWC to meet the agreed revenue covenants would correspond to a
long-run average incremental cost of 13.0 piasters/m3 for water produced,
which is appropriate in terms of cost recovery as well as in meeting the
Government's social and BWC's financial objectives.



- 22 -
Risks
62.      While the project is technically straightforward, it faces more
than ordinary managerial and institutional risks. BWC is after all the
first of its kind to be established in Egypt and is bound to experience
teething problems. The effect of a two year delay in executing the
project, for example, would increase the average incremental cost of water
from 13 to 15 piasters/m3 and make the financial objectives that much
more difficult to reach. Delays in the repair program aimed at reducing
water losses would have similar consequences. The project, however, has
been thoroughly prepared, and the technical assistance provided to the
management of BWC and to GOPW as the implementation agency should help
handle implementation difficulties as they arise. The training component
is also designed to minimize implementation risks by providing the trained
staff not only for the immediate needs of BWC but for the future needs of
the entire sector as a whole.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association, the
General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) and the Beheira Water Company
(BWC) and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of the project which are of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III. The special condition of effectiveness of the
credit is: execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government, BWC and GOPW (Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 12, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                             Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAI.           1001.4                                                       MIDD1.E INCOME
AGR [CULTURAL      29.6                                   MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA 5              MIDDLE IYCOMF
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST          IATIN AMERICA i CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    100.0        160.0     460.0                  81.5                    1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       298.0        275.0      463.0                  545.0                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STACISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       25.9         33.3       39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3 7.9          42.2       44.0                   45. 2                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          62.0
SlATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                   ..      101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHES                     2105
POPULATION DENESITY
PER SQ. KM.                         26.0         33.0       40.0                   40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0         1125.0    1343.0                   598.6                     81. 7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT'
0-14 YRS.                           42.0         42.1       40.2                   44.0                     41. 4
15-64 YRS.                           55.0         54.7       56.3                   52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0          3.2        3.5                    3.5                       3.9
POPULATION GUOWT11 RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.5        2.2                    2.6                       2. 7
UJRBAN                               6.0          3.6        3.0                    4.5                       4. 1
CRUDE BIRNH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.0         39.0       37.0                   41.6                      34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0          15.0      13.0                   13.7                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2. 8Hf      3.0        2.3                    2.9                       2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       206.0      187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            9.0       21.1                   16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEI OF FDOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            96.0         99.0       91.0                  93.5                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMIENTS)                   102.0        104.0      109.0                 103.6                     107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            73.D         71.0       75.0                  69.8                      65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         li.0         17.0       19.0                   17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       31.0         23.0       18.0                   17.5                       8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0           51.0       54.0                   54.4                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..          ..      108.0                     *-                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       66.0                   62.5                     65.9
LURBAN                                ..           ..       88.0                   82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..       50.0                  45.1                      44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOIAL                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                     62.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                     79. 4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2600.0       1910.0    1065.0/d               4688.7                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2730.0/d    1640.0/d  1150.0/d                1751.5                    1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              460.0        462.0      470.0                 635.5                     480.3
URBAN                                 ..        290.0      250.U
RURAL                                 ..       2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        5.2
URBAU                                4.8           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       1.8E
'URBAN                               1.6           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
LF DRELINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       45. 7
URBAN                               37.8           ..       77.0
RLRAL                                 ..           1. 19.0



ANNEX I
T2ige 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGCS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE L           MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  66.0         69.0       72.0                   76. 4                     99. 7
MALE                   80.0         84.0       87.0                   92.2                     101.0
FEMALE                 52.0         53.0      56.0                    59.9                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   16. 0        32. 0      46.0                   33.3                      34.4
MALE                   23.0         44.0       57.0                   41.9                      33.5
FEMALE                  9.0         21.0      34.0                    24.2                      34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  22.0            19.0       18.0                    9.8                      38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              39.0         38.0      40.0                   39.2                       30.5
SECONDARY                            16.0         25.0      29.0                    25.1                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          26.0           .        4. 3.5                 39. 7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0          4. 0       7.5                   15.3                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUlLATION                          58.0        132.0      137. 0                139.0                      245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            1.9         16.0       17.0                   29.0                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..         22.0       21.0                   22.2                      63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3. 0            2.0         ..                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        7481.4       9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     7. 3          7.2       8.0                     9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                58.4         54.4       51.0                   47.0                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   12.2         18.8      26.0                   23.8                       23. 5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  28.9         28.0       28.0                   26.1                      31.5
MALE                                   53.2         51.5       51.3                   47.4                      48.9
FEMALE                                  4. 2         4.1        4. 3                   4.7                      14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.6        1.6                    1.9                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e          17.46/ef  22.O_/R.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/e          42.8/e,f  49.2/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e           7.0I/ef   5.1/g
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 5/e         18. 7/e.f  14. 8_/
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                  ..           ..      120.0                 262.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       86.0                  140.4                     190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..            ..      163.0                 202.1                     474.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..       72.0                 122.2                      332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       21.0                  22.1
RURAL                                  ''           ''       25.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55; /d Registered, not all practing in the country; /e Rural expenditures; If 1964-65; /z National,
1974-75.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25; -                                                                                             A E
Page 3 of 6
OEPINITIONS Of SOCIA  INDICATORS
Neast;  although the data ar  draw   frte sources genteeLly judged the most a..tho"tca ndrlal,  tsol  as   nvtd   that t,heY my  otbeIner
naional. ly  -p-srbleS be.a.s  of the Look at s-lardie-d definiti-e .antootose  by ..f.rercunrr It  olcing~ she dIn.Thd                                            remr-
theess fasta  to descr ibe rdr   fi ngninade, indicte Itreds, aed  bah--riM- cons-vaao  difterence.si..
The refeee. group  see () the sam  ca..nry grasp of the subljeo   --ney sad (2) aceu..tiro  grop slab somehat high. ataerg   inom t-haa canrgap
ofth  eaiet  ouir  deet for "Cayiel1 Sirplue Oil tapar-er` groop wher  "Middle Incme  oon  Arlea an:,d MiddleIsan"  Is chose  heca   ai tnone
saoio-1oulturs1 affinities).  In the  eerse  rupdtane    re  are yapulation sciebted arithmetcmatfoe each, iodi-s-  and show  only when at
leas  half of the c-ttrias lea  grasp h.. dat  forthat iadicto.-   Since the  -oseeo   cnrlaaog the indicators dpyends on the  veia.iliny of
ad oe  ldleanom  se a thee amog the cuty  ed refeon-  groups.
L"DARP 11   (thouaaed sq.k.)                                                                  Faultonoa   hyslnturouala    idohonetea  practciagpty
Total r.. -Toasuf.l ce  re  -opotslw.g  e-d area sd inlled water.                              aicens : quiffo   fron A medla  schol tIItuer  yi level
Agolelnuro  - teteat  of aecutunal araue   eeoaily ce pamnoly                        Poculania  pet % d.,  Ifnsg  Prsn   yaultto    lie   ytea   fpsna
for eroe, pasures, erbet ed hitc er gdeas ar tn lIe fallow; 1907 data,           moetdeaegrd             -t uoe."pesecl a-ursee,. so d ...sista     erss
- Cgp P-I ..Pi'. --ti-T  It llOsian  st Bsa-na  Pad- toal, ubee.wad  ard                                            f Po.paait1 (tod.
culeted by sam   conrtemthod as WIdold iaB. Atlas r1977-09 heels); 1960,                      avilahle  In public tod priost  general1 sadispetiahisd hespita1 sad re-
1970. and  i979data.                                                                          hablitaeioneoes.    isinl  ae  sshih-.ot  peemotly sneffed
ENERGY CONSUMFTION PER CAPITA - A.                                     ~~~~by an leat ewe physIcIst.   Etsbslieeents provIding pohetipsily c..stedisi
11 PlTCIfIMTCtFPt   APIA-  uua  cssmpin  f  asrit   eery  eal                         ose  r  non .inlded.  tral. hospitals, hoevr,holade haIth sad medicl1
sad ignt,pnosn   anIgsadbdo-    ala   n   aiherml   ae-                                         ereea   permatetly staffed byia pyiciso  (hat byIe edire1.. asistsat
snoty ) in knilogrma of -cel equivalet pee capina; 1960  1900, aM  197                        ue,eOwf,ec)  ho8fe  ia-pet ieeaeI aelela   rvd
date.                                                                  llmlee~~~~~~~~~~~~i.td rea9s uf medical facilities. . Poreng isainl pl"pres  arha  hesysi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                        ~~~~~~~tis i-acde WflAys piweipal genra1 sad epeciallead baspitale. seroas
T.t:l P.p.1                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hospitals Ibed  to rura  hospitals med medical sad steeity capPrs
Tona  toaaion. Kid-Tea  (.illod- As of July 1, l960, 1900, end 1978                      Adiawions ear Onerinal ted - Tonal omeber of  dmissios  t  o  discharges
Urha   oa-  ato   (pecoet of tonal) - Rtnio of urban to tota  yapulanite;ft h.ptld d    bth.-Ifbd.
dilfrreaa defialtiacs of orb. etrees meyafc   copasbility mf dais                       HOUSING
amon  cauntrIIs; lIl0, 1970, and 1978 daa                                                    r Seice of da..ehold  Iceson            .sr ..ashold)  -nal.ub,sdred
Popalsiton Prolnct-one                                                                 A heteehoOd ctilets of adgrouy9of tadivida-l  the share linta  qsrar
Foplait  I  yer  10  -Coreeyfuat      It roeeioma are :bae  t190               ad theiIir ol Isal.    baderorlodger may or may non be itlded is
tonal popaltnio  by age and see sad thsIr m-tsiyedfrtlty  -oae.                           the hbc.s.hold far stotiatioal purposes.
Pr-jeontio  p-rte-r  for mortaity rtes. comprise of tIres level  asum                   deAl  e numbe  of canons1 oar 0000- total, urIban  sed rural - bsoge .            '
icg life eapansocyaIt birth icra iaguth  -vutry '5  e P           a p'inslaom             braeeoprcsoaren.llub,cdrrlocpidovetg
meters for fertility race alac have threeleosle  suigdcln   nuoeuldyr
fertility aecodiog to Income leve  sad Past family pleec.iogoetoce                      .c.r.  topiltrilcdrren   fdrlip--                    oa.ura.ad  ua
lath e...etry is than.. asigned   rf these lioe  -obinaiioos ot mortality               -Cuen  oa  deellicas 11 ol.b.lectity in living quarters te                 .. eretag
ted fertility treadsI for prijett"isatP05C511..    ot ..g-hf conal ,urhn  and rura  d_ritawemetive1y
the bi-hb mete Is squl to ibe deseb rats, amd also.E.t . tbsest...e..- EDUCATION
mainsI..ataw. 1 This Ia anhieed only sl.ie  fertilIty rtes. deolino tO                 AdiuteCoolotRis
ihe  eplceman  evr  ofuni  acr rprouctta  ate  whe  eah gocctio  Prmar lscoal- ttnal  mae sd female - GIross total, male med fe1l
ofsmcoPIsesisl   eel.     The staitar  pouairse   s                                     co1eto              gsa ti.   -he  rmr   ra  a   eceee f reepeanie-
e-eimtnd us the basis of the proJeeted oaatriit f tha puulation                             yeiaay Iehoc -agR  oPulet1imaa;          com yIncludes  lbtdra gd8l
w the year 0000, sod tha rate of deolin- if fetilitay rate it  IePlae                       years= hot  dJu-td fo  dforolengtbs of priImay eduoatia ; for
stat level...eoos -riethi univesa_                                                                                       du tIhormrl'I'nt may emed idlP .e.tea
Tea  snati-tar  pnpalation Is r-shed - The y-s  wh..se ooe   pipalation                        ail- some papilm  are below  or aboon oh  official school ag..
h-e at  been reached.S ..ccodary school - total, sale wcd femal  - Cimputed sa above; ...ctadry
Paplaios lea.sity                                                                              Idue..nioceucaa   les   oo   erm of gPypr d primarytarvooe
Por so. los. - Kid-yea  poyslanton per square kilomte  flod heonares) it                       provides georl o...cl   0  een  trinig sruiosfo   u
'tota  arr.                                                                                 umualiy  fi 12 to 17 ysaru of age; correp ondace  orIaar                -oIty
Per su.. Am     grolerl  ad - Computed as above Car ageicuItaraI Iod                          ealuded
Ooly.                                                                                     Vtocaiou_ Ineo- ect lerct p       of seoday    -... ntai.1 i-stt.taill
PoueicAgeirea                t eca) - Children fl-li year), wok nag-age d)-                te-lodo neheicl,  icdatl.O  ote  progrmes eihe  operate iadeps-
lb years), ad retioed 165 yearsted overt)a  ca naelf aid-year 0000-                            danyo-st        ratonoo   coeayntiu  oe
laic;160, I9II   aed i.. . dta.                                                         yPul.-t-teh-I cato- ErInur   te   eodr-  oa   tdetseroldh
P      _taio   omb tans. do--cn) - toal - Aca   grooth rates a1  tota  aid-               yrimary and ve-cuedary levels dividedtby cobers  f.teacher  he I  the
ye- populetiaa  fir 1951-60, igIf-70, and 1970-78... corscdtg, levels.
apulatie  roi  ln G      parern)   otha-Aaual   rosh rates of urhgc Potu-                    Adult ii' teuyotte  )procnc;liteaeaa                  ial  n   ed and write)
laton   for 1950-60, 1960-70, sad 1970-78.                                                  Iaap-otcnge  of nosa  adun yyultioc aged 15.t.i yeasadoe..
Crude Bimbh late dear thouatod) - bAtul IIoe hirtha yer thb..m..d at md-yea
poylaior; 19h0, 1900, sad 1908 data..CNOATO
Crde aaib late  (cer thousan) - A ..e Ideaths per thousan d ci aid-yea-ssna   as(ertosn   ouair   - Pwe..nget oars comprise asto
ypa,,latiot; 1960, 197C, and 1978 dana.                                                     ears  e.tniog loot th- eIght Por.n.e;  -nJides  mbuls....e, h-are  end
lces. lero tutio   a           -ie -bvoe  ibe  o f daughters sem     ill be.o io               military vehice..
bar  ormal r-yrdutti-e periodIf she separience  oress-t  ae-pc ie   -                     Radlo ceR- ri      ee   huad  ouaI             - A~ll types of ruieafar rdb
tility rates  usually fio-ae  avrges ending in 1960, 17,ad170.                              bra  assn  gcol  ulc             tr houwad o  poyalatioc; ealodes aeli-
F_mIlyj...   A_uengl tetao. dctl(io ae  - At_ut  vubet ofaupo_cne   eatemt                                                 asadIn yeash-a registrstion of radio  e
oflohcnto    rIIces uodr. ausico  of otioa  fa.sl.ly P,a..,.g progr.                        ua  In affect; data F oeociyer  may uot hecoparable state mown
oue   f ebild-ba-iug age  110-44 year) aho uee bioth-coctoI device  tO                TVOevrslo  thautdocuelod-T   eeise  a   radatt
all narried nomew  in sm  age group.                               gruerlpubltc yet thousand population; ecludes uwiossId TVf rec..he-m
ioontean   nY..,eI when reItri of TV st a  in offset.
101D AND1 NUTRITI0ON                                                                          N-osooC rutoder           c- hoaasodrouto) -.b..sh .aeag.aral
ladm  of  ood  rndaticacarCapita d99-7 !1-0)-Idtayecpianul                            tIom f "dil ;goea  icierestnowsypa"I,d dfInd aspeiditl  pb
soduetif  of  ll  oo  oamaodii ies..rod19       nle     Ilalue  see  an  fe  tadplican-o  devte  pranil  torcodn   gsra   es.I  i  oals
tea aer  -oelded).  Aggregate pr-d-efio  of each eouanr  IsIbIsd ontiele_  sold duo   nb t.year. iroladiag admissions no drire-e_i ema
eatiooalavorage produce  pne-  -aighas; 1961-65, 1970t  and 197'8 data,                     and eabile   ot
Pat-a -Its mull oI f eaoro   loercent of reavoiremeets) - Cpmyad from
enegyeqivaenk n  oa%t food suPplesavilbl  in oc_nary per .s.Pita.                 fI    FORCE
Pre day.  Available  tPpylies coPrIse d-mtsic prodactl, iport  Cram                     Tota  Lsbor Pore   (,hn....nde) - tE-noicaly attireprsn.  inticdi.
roors,ad eh.gm  im Is-ck.  Nlet suPplies eaclade anml" fr           - eds,           er-d f--ye  and aneploy-d but  -nluding hoew              ,stadeete, st-.
quatities usef in food pro...siog, gad lasses in distirbyalon    acquire                  Dfinition-  Ic -arnou  coairir  are eo   omeabe  1960, 1970 sad
mice. aee etimated by PhI b...sd cm phosinlogir-l aerdw  fsr   -ma  anti-                 197  dssa.
city tad health  .o.siderihgeaniro-etal temperature  body weug,hts, age                 feal  fern) - Femal  labor, fores as lparveeege of total 1himbrfr
and ... di1trihuniow of popaletio, med a1ioie  11 perceat fo   et   n                   brounrIpoet    lat borIostfring, fores.sey, banning sad
Phoosh Id-bwe; t96l-65, 1970, and 1970 dais.                                               fiahinaa-      ace ea  total labor forte; 19h0, i970 sad 19g data
Pr  cptasupy  f  rnen  gam   prdu)- Pro neh  tatn f P-ratPtpl                       lutrieco)-Labor forceII mining, coestrutit,etsfat iad
ca  spply cf food yet day.  Nan sapply of food Is defined as abov.-                     so-  d e1-ttricay, aatno sad gas as perrennage of tanO labor f-re; 1960.
quiremast  for al1l .nananire established by USlA provide for mnum1970 and 197P data.
alownc otfhi gre  af nata t        rrea -e day sad~21tgr-m  of animal and               Potertion8e   lrrsn     tnl   ae,edfml  - ya-t1iapanir  -r
ynoPraes   foih1   rm   houdh   nia   rte                       hs  sawd-              soitiy rtes. arInI        ueda  total, male, sod feal  lhe  feroes
ords  re lone  tha  nthse of 75 gEaa uf total protein sad 23 grams of                     p-r-ennget of nota1, male sad femal  popalation Of s1lsagesapmevey
animal protein as svesg  fur nit- world,  prop..ad by PAl In the Third                    19b0, 1971... tad1975 dais. ,These ate ILO's ys-ticipstioa estas esflectlm
hortld Paid itr-y; 19h1-t5, 1900 sad 1977 daa.g-e   tutr   f  b   oaaia   n    a   tm    re.als   si
Par espite prvntie suppl rmaia  an            .us  -FPro ed  supplyof fodd-                 mansaefrmgttalsots
rice   frs aimas td pa1s.. Ia gram   per dsy; 1961-h5, 17 1970 970d data    ae meOreenyiro- tic of population tader 15 med 65 sad a
Cidass1-4) t.Irtality tRe free IItmd       aruldah    e  thoasad Ia                     to the  oa   abrfre
sgr groap 1-h years, to ehildrro ha this age gEup; fa  most devalopiescov-.
tries data derived from Itif  teble; 1960C,1901 sod 1977 dane.                          I9COMEfISfTRalBUTION
Life Empett-y at Birth lYrara) - Average  uebor of years of life reminiog                      of he....holdw.
an birth; 190, 1970 and 1978 dana.
lrf-et Mortaity late (P., tha.us.d) - hAssua  deaths. 0f iof..tot  under t.e year          L. PITI TA,CET acup
of age Pert.'    adlv  births.                                                            Estimated Abeoluce  toerolacome% lee  _(CI  :a spita1) - arham mad natal 
hNb-r of pemple  ntl  urban   a  rol  wit .r.s.nble arast   ae                               ntritioaal'  adequate diee Plus resewtua1 ea-foad reqairsemts Is mat
wuetopl  dnluesaesedsrfceetes  rcaretd  but o-cntaintstd                                affordable.
maer .uh as thatfo  yrtctd             harbles,  ptiags, sad seolAr.y welled  -          Estimated ReIatire - Poety I...m  lee  (             arot-its) -ahmsdtr.
perontaes  f te h  tepeetvapoplenawI    _ne-ra    ra    ulclra   eaiepvryice  level isat-third   f aegeprcita
founts togcc  IcandrIe  loatd  n  matts  ho  c  manrs  ro ab hoses l -a e                    peme   oooo   h   aer.Obnlvlh   at                             rm gther .ra
reasons-h   I ccs  mo iIdi iml  than. thb  huwf  ormebrso  theI houshol                      levl thi ad7u--t for- higher  -t of living in arha   areas
rura -  Numbe  of peole  dnaa,dras   n  vrtlsredhfsrt
possl may inlude. the  alsnoand disposl  with o ItI               u  trh   me                                         tEaaemio anlsssd Pr..tjetie  Depa-met
of hua   anreta sad tate-wter by ester-bores  Iytw  at Ithe se  at.b                                                                                     1
pit privies atd similarIne ltos



- 26 -                                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Pop.iationi 41 million (mid-1979)
GNP per capita:   US$4bUJ
Amount (million)                              A N N U A L  G R U W T H  R A r E 5  (E       )
USt at current
prices)                        A C I U A L                           EST.            P R O J E C T E D
1979        1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980/81   1981/82   1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product /a               17745.0        10.4       10.3      10.9       11.9       8.2         9.0        8.3       6.5        6.9       6.9
Agriculture                        3844.0         6.3        1.6      -3.0        5.5       3.9         2.2        2.1       2.3        2.6       2.7
Industry                           3237.0        10.6        4.8       9.8       12.3       6.5         9.8        9.2       9.7        9.5       9.8
Petroleum                          2728.0        39.4      52.3       55.2      22.0       10.3        11.6      12.8        3.4        6.0       5.7
services                           7263.0         9.2       11.6       9.4       12.0      10.2        10.8        8.8       8.3        8.0       7.8
Consumption                            15010.0         -3.8       8.3       11.0      11.2        4.5        12.0      11.2        8.9        8.0       7.1
Gross Investment                         5450.0        54.2      -8.2        9.3      -2.4        9.4         9.6       8.6        7.5        6.7       5.7
Lxports of GNFb                          5585.0        27.2      30.8        9.0       3.0        5.8        12.4       7.9        4.5        5.8       5.8
Lmports ot GNFb                         8300.0        16.0       -5.3        2.5       4.2        8.9        18.7      11.8        9.2       7.9        5.2
Gross National baving                    3885.0       133.0      74.8       25.7      17.4    -13.4            -         -          -          -         -
PRICEb
GDP Deflator                                           50.6      55.9       6C.5      65.8       81.0       100.0         -         -          -         -
Excnange Rate /b                                        2.15      1.97       1.75       1.54      1.43        1.43        -         -          -         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                          Average Increase (2) at constant prices
(at current prices)                            1965 Prices  1975 Prices             1980/81 Prices
1960       1970       1975      1979   1984/85             1960-1970       1970-1975       1975-1979      FY81-FY85
Gross Domestic Product
-    Agriculture                           27.9        25.3      28.2       21.7      16.2                4.7             5.1             1.9            2.4
-    Industry S Petroleum                  23.7        26.1      25.4       33.6      37.0                3.0            2.6             17.5            8.2
-     services                             42.9       40.8       42.8       4C.9      41.7                6.3            4.4             10.8            8.2
Consumption                                87.3       90.6       90.4       84.6      86.2                4.4            8.0              6.8            8.8
Gross Investment                           13.3        13.9      32.3       30.7      27.4                5.8            4.2              1.8            7.1
Export of GNFb                             19.5        14.2      21.5       31.5      30.9                4.9           22.8             11.6            6.0
Impurt ol GNFS                             20.1       18.8       44.1       46.8      44.5                1.1           13.5              2.5            8.5
Gross National Saving                      12.9         7.7      10.9       21.9      17.9                7.2           17.2             22.2             -
As X of GDP
1960       1970       1975      1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                            18.5        21.3      34.1       37.2
Current Expenditure                        21.5        22.0      39.9       33.9
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                 -3.0       -0.7       -5.8        3.3
Capital Expenditure                        11.8        11.1      16.6       23.0
Foreign Financing                            -           -       16.0        4.4
1960-70  1970-75  1975-80   FY81-FY85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (X)                         4.5         5.0      11.9        7.6
GNP per capita growth rate (X)              1.9         2.7       8.7        4.9
Energy consumption growth rate (X)/c 14.9              14.9      13.2       11.4
ICOR                                         -           -        3.6        4.0
Marginal savings rate                        -           -        0.46       0.15
Import elasticity                           0.9         1.7       0.9        1.1
/a    GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
/n    Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
7W    Electricity only.
April 22, 1981



- 27 _
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 41 million (mid-1979)
GNY per capita: Ua$460
Amount (million)                      Annual Growth Rate (.) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US$ at current
prices)                     A C T U A L                       EST.               P R O J E C T E D
1979       1975      1976      1977      1978      1979    80/81    81/82        82/83    83/84    84/85
EXTEKNAL TKADE
Merchanuise Exports               4024         27.2      19.6       3.1       7.7       9.6      10.8       6.6       3.2       5.4       5.3
-  Primary I/                      546       -15.3      -8.5      25.7    -29.8         4.5       5.2       1.4       2.0       2.6       3.0
-  Manufactures 4!                  168        24.8    -14.6    -27.3        17.9    -29.6        9.2       6.1       6.1       6.7       6.7
-  Petroleum                      2860        72.0      63.3       11.1      16.1      22.6      12.1       7.5       2.8       5.6       5.4
Mercnandise Imports               7336         14.1      -5.0      -1.1       8.5       5.9      18.0      11.7       9.1       7.7       5.0
-  Food                           1677        27.4      16.9    -18.1        25.8      -7.0      21.2      12.8       8.8       6.2       2.3
-  Petroleum                       243       -34.2    -23.3    -53.3          2.7    -11.8       17.7       6.1       2.7       1.5       0.6
-  Macninery and Equipment        2846        59.5      24.8      21.4      -0.7       25.6      14.3      10.4       9.4       7.8       6.8
-  others                         2570        17.9    -26.2       10.7        7.5       0.2      20.0      12.9       9.6       9.2       5.6
P'rices
Export Price Index                            51.5      49.9       52.3      52.9      76.0    100.0    112.0    124.0    137.0    152.0
Import Price Index                            60.6      63.5      70.4      76.1      87.9    100.0    110.0    120.0    130.0    140.0
lerms ot Trade Index                          85.0      78.6      74.3      69.5      86.5    100.0    102.0    103.0    105.0    108.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)              at constant 1980/81 prices
1970      1975      1979    84/85         1975/79      FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                   9.8            4.8
Prxmary I/               64.2      28.3      13.6      11.8           -4.1            2.4
Petroleum                 4.8      25.2      71.0      76.3           26.8           4.9
Manufactures-/           31.0      46.7      15.4      11.9          -15.3           6.6
Imports                                                                   1.9            7.6
Food                     13.4      23.6      22.9      26.0            2.9           6.3
Petroleum                 8.2       6.9       3.3       3.0          -24.5           2.3
Machinery                23.4      23.7      38.8      37.7           17.2           8.1
Others                   55.0      45.8      35.0      33.3           -3.1           8.4
ahare of Trade with            Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (7)        Developing Countries (%)          Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1965      1970      1975        1965      1970      1975               1965      1970      1975
DiRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                           27.0      17.0      14.0         18.0      22.0      10.0                1.0       1.0       4.0
Primary                        29.0      19.0      18.0        17.0      22.0      11.0                          1.0       3.0
Manufactures                   19.0      12.0       3.0        23.0      23.0       9.0                4.0       3.0       5.0
Imports                           55.0      42.0      65.0        18.0      25.0      14.0                  -         -       4.0
1/ Not including oil and oil products.
April 22, 1981



- 28._                                                           ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
EST.                  P R O J E C T E D
1974     1975     1976    1977      1978    1979   1980/81        1981/82     1982/83      1983/84     1984/8S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTb
Export of Goods and Non-Factor Services               2251    2503      3319    3888    4099        5585    8207         9835         11315       13180        15275
- of vhich merchandise f.o.b.                         1818    1875    2169       2346    2558    4024    6007            7160          8185        9550       Ii25
Imports of Goods and Non-Factor Services             -3959   -5141   -5182   -5879   -6612   -8300  -11388             -13920       -16590       -19360      -21965
- of which merchandise c.i.f.                        -3618   -4608   -4659   -5110   -5998   -7336   -9998             -12225       -14575       -16995      -19270
Net Factor Ilocome                                      70      122      413      472      1098    1143    1412          1650          1865        1980         2020
Net Private Transfers                                   42       90       87       63        54       50      --          --            --          --           --
C.rrent Account Balance                              -1596   -2426   -1363   -1456   -1361   -1522   -1769              -2435         -3410       -4220       -4670
Private Direct Investment                               87      225      444      477      387       710      964        1130          1320        1510         1715
MLT L a..s (Net)                                        69      270      647       730    1141      1509    1826         2370          2635        2560         2500
- otticial                                             -21      210      490      803     1028     1072    1615          1685          1870        2040        2195
- private                                               90       60       157     -73       113      437      211         687           765         520          305
Otner Capital (Net) 4/                                1393    1907        191      339    -181    -599    -300           -330          -360          355         455
Ch-ange in kRe.ar.es                                    47       24       81      -90        14     -98       721         735           185         205            0
Internatioali  Keserves 1/                             516      678      642      880     1106     i098    1815          2550          2735        2940         2940
- of which gold                                        102      102      102      104      104       104     --           --           --          --          --
Reserves as Montns Imports 3/                          1.7      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.2       1.8      2.2         2.5           2.3         2.1          1.8
EXTEKNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                   2227    3612    2305    3349        2812    2329    2962           3720         4375         4620        4870
Official Grants                                    1303    1076       792      445      345      110      350          600          735          805         870
Concessional Loans                                  120     1444      668     1855     1600      996    1461          1420         1475         1530        1545
- DAC                                                55      199      421      591      799      833    1198         1190          1260         1320        1330
- OPEC                                                3    1142       171      137       93       43       68           20             5           0            0
- IDA                                                12       49       42       42       45       55       55           85          110          105          80
- Others                                             50       54       34    1085       663       65      140          125          100          105         135
Non-Concessional Loans                              804    1092       845    1049       867    1223    1151          1700          2165         2285        2455
- otticial export creuits                           379      639      214       24       44       50       97          120          170          185         210
- I18D                                               -        14       36       37       57      118      163          185          225          295         370
- other multilateral                                 -         6       -       256       18        5       34           55           65           80          95
- private                                          425      433       595      732      748    1050       857        1340          1705        1725         1780
External Deat
Debt outstanding and aisbursed                        2830    4830      5770    8090    9920   11330   13537            15310         17210       18970       20600
- official                                        1990    3890    4720    6800    8500    9470   11423              12510         13640       14880        16210
- private                                           840      940    1050      1290    1420    1860    2114           2800          3570        4030         4390
Undisoursed Debt                                      1602     2426     3014    4515    4390    4629    5558             5950         6175         6480        6900
Debt Service
Total bervice Payment                                  517      595      665     1099    1211      1040    1658          2030          2490        2935        3400
- interest                                           70      115      111      340      387      236      645         685           750          870        1035
- payment as 2 exports 2/                           21X     21.6%    16.8X    23.9%    21.8%    14.6%    16.3         16.8         18.0         18.4        18.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                     6.3      4.7      5.1      5.1      4.6       6.4      6.5         7.3           7.3         7.3          7.2
- otlicial
- private
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)                  17.2    18.5    23.3    18.7    27.9    24.5    19.5               17.4          17.3        16.2         16.2
- official
- private
I/ Foreign assets of Central Bank.
2/ Exports of goods and services not including foreign oil companies exports.
3j herchanoise only.
4I Including commercial banks operations and residual balance of payments financing.
April 22, 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page i of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
,oan/Creovt      Approved        Borrower        Purpose                                         less cancellations
Wumoers           FY                                                                     Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Lii  243-UAa         60            SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                      56.5        --
Gs  181-UAs          70            UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                         --      26.0            --
Cr  284-UAR          72            AKE           Railways I                                  --      30.0            --
Cr  393-UAR          73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                         --      36.0           2.4
Cr  412-UAK          73            AKE           Development Industrial Bank 1/              --      15.0            --
cr  4LJ-UAK          74            AKE          Cottoni Ginning Rehabilitation                       18.5          2.1
Cr  437-UAh          74            ARE           Population I                                --       5.0            --
Cr  484-UAR          74            ARE          Talkha Fertilizer                            --      20.0            --
Cr  524-EGT          75            AKE          Ag./Ind. Imports                             --      35.0            --
Ln 1062-EGT          75            AKE          Ag./Ind. Imports                           35.0        --            --
LC  1064-iFT         75            bCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation                 50.0        --         13.5
Ln 185-EGF          75            ARE          Tourah Cement                              40.0        --          2.1
Ln 1098-EGT          75            ER            Railways II                               37.0        --           7.0
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE          Telecommuniations I                          --      30.0            --
Cr  57b-EGT          7b            AKE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/            --      25.0          0.2
Lti i239-ECT         76            APA          Alexandria Port                            45.0        --         27.1
Ca 1276-T-EGT 2/   7o              ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                   50.0        --         33.7
Cr  637-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                      --      40.0         13.6
Ln i285-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                    10.0        --         10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76            ARE          Textile RehabilitatLion                    52.0        --         14.6
Cn 1369-EGT          77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                    56.0        --         31.3
Cr  681-EGT          77            AKE          Education I                                  --      25.0          4.0
Cr  7'S-EGI          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                       --      27.0          7.2
on 1439-EGI          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                     27.0        --         27.0
LCu 1440-l-EGT 2/   77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                     12.0        --         12.0
Ln 145S-EUT          77            EEA          Regional Electrification                   48.0        --         15.1
Co 1456-EGI          77            ARE          Inoustrial Imports                         70.0        --         18.8
Ln 6-005-EGT        77             ARE          Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.             2.5        --          0.7
Ln 1482-EGI          78            bCA          buez Canal Expansion                      100.0        --         29.9
Cr  774-EGT          78            AKE          Telecommunications II                        --      53.0         51.0
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III            40.0        --         12.0
cr  830-EGT          78            ARE          Agricultural Development                     --      32.0         26.8
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE          Urban Development                            --      14.0         13.6
Cr  85O-EGT          79            ARE          Population II                                --      25.0         20.9
Cr 808-EUT           79            ARE          Education II                                 --      40.0         33.3
Ln b-14-EGT          79            AKE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance               11.0        --          3.3
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE          Tourism                                      --      32.5         32.1
Ln 1732-EGI          79            AKE          Gult of buez Gas                           75.0        --         45.2
Cr  935-EGT          79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power             --      37.0         36.5
Ln 1733-EGT          79            EEA          bhoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 3/  102.0             --        102.0
Cr  988-ERT          80            ARE          Agroindustries                               --      45.0         44.9
Cn 1804-EGT          80            DIB          Development Industrial Bank IV             50.0        --         45.1
Ln 1837-EGT          80            AKE          Textiles II 4/                             69.0        --         69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE          MIDB                                       30.0        --         30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                       --      50.0         34.4
Ln 1849-ERT          80            ARE          Pulp and Paper 4/                          50.0        --         50.0
LC  1886-EGT        8U             ERA          Power III 4/                                7.0        --          7.0
Cr 1052-EUT          80            EEA          Power III 4/                                 --    120.0         120.0
Cr 1069-ERT          81            ARE          Education III                                --      40.1         40.1
Ln 1298-EGT          81            EGPC         Petroleum Exploration 4/                   25.0        --         25.0
Cr 1083-EGT          81            ARE          New Land Development 4/                      --      80.0         80.0
Cr lill-ERT          81            ARE          Fish Farming 4/                              --      14.0         14.0
Totals                                                                                   1150.0    915.1        1208.5
Of woich has been repaid                                                                   65.3       0.9
Total now outstanding                                                                    1084.7    914.2
Amount sold                                              7.5
Of which hias been repaid                               7.5
Total now held oy Bank and IDA                                                           1084.7    914.2
1/ Formerly BanK of Alexandria.
2/  Toiro Window Loan.
3/ Not incluaeo is EEC Special Action Creuit 20 ot $3j.O.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                  Type of Business                           Loan        Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                             4.80         .835         5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                  0.43        0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                  20.0         3.00         23.0
1979        Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                     5.97       1.52          7.49
Company
1979        Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                     1.93         .55         2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                          30.0           -         30.0
1980        Crocodile Tourist        Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                  4.41         .857         5.267
67.54       6.922        74.462



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date; November 28, 1973; Closing Date; July 31,
1981.
Construction and remodelling of some 1,640 km of open drains have
been completed. Of 300,000 feddans in the project area, tile drainage has
been completed in about 230,000 feddans. Progress on this activity was
slow due mainly to poor construction planning and management by the public
sector contractors. The other outstanding activity is the construction of
two pumping stations; civil works are more than 75% complete and the
pumping equipment has been delivered at site for erection. EPADP's current
program shows project completion by June 1982, and accordingly, the
Government is likely to request an extension of the current closing date.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards mid-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A decree, effective in July 1980,
establishes a National Railway authority and aims to give the railwyays
inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff
salaries.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and about $24.8 million was
disbursed as of March 31, 1981.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has had major problems, which are now being addressed. The
Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is making very good
progress. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Overall progress on construction of 1602 km of open drains
covering 500,000 feddans is 62% complete. Foundation work is in progress
on one pumping station included in the Project. Installation of tile
drains has just commenced and is complete only in 8,000 feddans. The
progress on this activity has been slow due mainly to the time taken by the
public sector contractors for import of plastic pipe laying machines and
setting up of cement collector pipe making workshops. Also the area of the
project was adjusted by exchanging 22,000 feddans of previously tiled area
with an equivalent non-tiled area of the Upper Egypt I Project.
Ln. No. 1292-ECT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope and delay of civil works and increase in cost of
construction materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No
difficulties are foreseen in financing this, although some government
equity contribution would be required in the next two years to supplement
the companies' internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial
covenants as well as project costs. Early management problems have now
been overcome and both companies have developed effective project
implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting
initial delays in procurement. However, about 95 percent of the contracts
for machinery and equipment have now been awarded, and the balance is
expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
has started. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts have been
completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts are now
being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being made on
meter replacement and reduction of waste, and AWA's regularly submitted
reports reflect good general progress.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Cr. No. 681-ECT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Clcsing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricula
and staff development, and technical assistance are essentially complete.
About 95 percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by June 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date; April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction of open drains is on schedule, Vwith completion of
some 380,000 feddans out of the total area of 815,000 feddans. Progress is
satisfactory on renovation of the equipment of two pumping stations. Of
the other four new pumping stations, the foundation work has been commenced
on three. The contractors for the installation of tile drains are in the
process of importing plastic pipe laying machines and other equipment.
This activity is complete only in 4,000 feddans out of the project area of
400,000 feddans.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, howTever. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-ECT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, about $51.2 million has been disbursed and
about $56.0 million committed. Utilization of the loan proceeds has been
slow mainly because of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector
firms.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date; February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date wTas
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company
and engineering work for pilot beneficiation plant.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-ECT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $28.0 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second l'elecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of Mlarch 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981
Procurement action under this credit is well advanced. Bid
evaluation reports on the two remaining items (mobile exchanges and
electronic PABXs) are avwaited.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed.
Implementation is being reviewed to determine whether basic project
objectives have been met. Improvements in institutions and project
management are under consideration.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
There has been progress in the staffing of the project unit, but
its technical staff needs to be augmented. Progress in implementation of
some of the shelter components and studies has improved; however, there are
delays in some of the other components. Measures to resolve the problems
are under discussion with the Government.
Cr. No. 850-ECT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil wyorks and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected. Of the 153
sites, construction on about one third has been completed, and the
remainder should be completed by September 1981. Progress in implementing
the software components is seriously delayed partly due to managerial
problems. Measures to be taken by the Government following discussions
with a recent review mission should expedite progress in the training, IEC
and home visiting programs.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Of the 23
new institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another five will
be completed by mid-1981 and 12 will be completed in 1983. One will now be
situated in an existing building. Of the 36 institutions to be
rehabilitated, 14 will be completed by mid-1981; construction work on the
remainder will begin in 1982. All equipment is under procurement with
contracts already signed for about 50 percent. All technical assistance
has been contracted.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment has been completed
and erection is proceeding at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock
have been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for
pre-feasibility study are being discussed with government.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 909-ECT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started. Procurement is underway for
electricity, telecommunications, luxor Hotel Training School and Luxor air
terminal components. Planning and Design studies are undervway for the
roads, water, and museum components. Disbursements are running at 50% of
appraisal forecasts, and this percentage is expected to rise by the end of
1981.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The three studies included
under the project, the exploration and the energy pricing studies as well
as the financial management study are underway.
In. No. 1733-ECT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-ECT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment were issued in
December 1980. Bid opening dates for major equipment packages are set for
May/June 1981.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The contract for construction of the Cairo abattoir has been
awarded, and the bids for construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being
evaluated. Disbursements under the credit component through three
participating banks have been slow, pending clarification of on-lending
interest rates by the Egyptian Government.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of March 31, 1981, $25.9 million had been committed and $4.9 million
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
The project became effective on December 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date; December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-ECT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Contractor has been working since April 1980 and the project is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The credit became effective on April 16, 1981.
Ln. No. 1886-ECT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-ECT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Effectiveness action underway.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. llll-EGT - SDR 11.0 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farming
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare           21 months (January 1979
the project:                                   to October 1980)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:             General Organization
for Potable Water (GOPW)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:    January 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    October 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:            March 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 December 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1. Condition of credit effectiveness:
Execution of subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government, the
Beheira Water Company (BWC) and the GOPW (para. 49).
2. Other conditions:
(i)  The Government will prepare a detailed program of urgent
rehabilitation works in the provincial water supply sector
(para. 40).
(ii)  BWC will prepare by March 31, 1982 a program and timetable
satisfactory to IDA to transfer operational responsibilities
for water supply facilities in Beheira in concurrence with
the Government (para 43).
(iii)  The Government has agreed that it will develop a
complementary health program in Beheira and submit it to IDA
for review, not later than December 31, 1982 and start to
implement the program promptly (para. 46).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) The Government will, by December 31, 1981, submit for IDA's
review, a detailed training program, which will be
implemented in accordance with a schedule to be agreed upon;
by December 31, 1982 it will submit for IDA's review a
detailed plan of action for the operation of the Damanhur
National Training Center (para. 47).
(v) Of the credit proceeds, $53 million will be onlent to the BWC
at an interest rate of 6 percent under a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to IDA (para. 49).
(vi) The Government will provide or cause to be provided the funds
for BWC's cash flow requirements to the extent not covered
from its own sources (para. 49).
(vii) The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1981 it will
appoint suitably qualified management and engineering
consultants in consultation with the BWC on the basis of
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. At the conclusion of
the management consultants' work, BWC will submit to the
Government and IDA for review recommendations with regard to
its organization structure and financial and administrative
procedures and adopt those that are satisfactory to them
(para. 50).
(viii) BWC will implement tariff proposals, satisfactory to the
Association, by July 1, 1982. The Government and BWC will
ensure that, starting from fiscal year 1983, BWC's revenues
from operations will be adequate to cover all expenditures
for operation and maintenance; and in each succeeding year
additional revenues will be generated so that by 1987,
revenues will be adequate to cover BWC's expenses for
operation and maintenance costs as well as debt service not
covered by depreciation (para. 55).
(ix) By July 1, 1982 the local authorities in Beheira will pay BWC
annual amounts for each public standpipe and these amounts
will be established annually, in accordance with methods
satisfactory to IDA. BWC will also submit to the Government
and IDA by June 30, 1984 its proposals for charging consumers
for standpipe usage, and the local authorities will continue
to provide payments for such usage, to the extent not covered
from direct charges to standpipe consumers (para. 56).



~~,SYRIA
JI D<N
MI ~~~~~2ITCSRA N~~~~~~~~~~A N  RO5ETTA   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           A\RABIA
ARAB REPUB14C
1:OF EGYPT"
5 \ r * g tf Xg X j LD rr \ Bk DINA
ARAB REPUBLICOF  G Y PT
/                                                                  UX> A k "  Propo4ed ,- P oiecr   0 Bo4eholes/WeIIsCEeg4o4aI & Mar4I-
fEL4''' ~~~ARU
X Lt;    '',  tH    ws,.  D  h                                                                       ,     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DLIIA
AL4RIC  /   S7     tS    ~~~~KAFR EL SHEIKH                                                       
44-                       \   ( |                         ~~~~~~~~~~ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
>2>&  tA-e X   a                               BEHEIRA PROVINCIAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT 
\  ~~~~~ \  b Y7t ~~~~~~~~~TREATMENT PLANTS                             A   Elv-r.d Resr--r                      r
w   Cow    1> \                    I       *  ~~~~~~      ~      ~     ~~~~E-lt,g  2S  Pumpmg stoto.s-i
G  t               |        a  ~~~~~~~~~~Und., C-nt-f-io  0   B.,.h.le-/W! ls(Rurcl Sst-m)i
BEER   Se0db ' )t                                                 Prop-sd,n P,.I.cl       *   8-rh.ol`//Welik(Reg-no & M-mepol) 
4   :'ct f=   Rur:l Wlls Schemes  \.F3q;  t   \   Existmg             - I @A,.. Servd by AWGA          
\ > ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- On~der C-f-ruci-n bf  GOPW                                  C-n6s  l 
\  s.                <                                          ttlLE5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~     ~     ~ ~ ~~~~0 '0 '20 ' 'l  ( _
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE M[E5         lo 'l :0F,>)



