Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19894-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR i06.5 MILLION
(US$142.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR AN
IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT
MARCH 30, 2000
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 43.6= US$ 1.0
US$ 0.02292 = 1 Rupee
FISCAL YEAR
April 1   - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANM                  Auxiliary Nurse-Midwife
AWW                  Anganwadi Worker
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan
BIMAA                Bihar Immunization Acceleration Activity
GAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CHC                  Community Health Centre
CMO                  Chief Medical Officer
DALY                 Disability Adjusted Life Year
DANIDA               Danish International Development Agency
DflD                 Department for International Development (U.K.)
ERR                  Estimated Rate of Return
EPI                  Expanded Programme of Inmmunization
FWD                  Family Welfare Department
GOI                  Government of India
ICC                  Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee
ICDS                 Integrated Child Development Services
IEC                  Information, Education and Communication
INCLEN               International Clinical Epidemiology Network
JICA                 Japanese International Corporation Agency
KfW                  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LACI                 Loan Administration Change Initiative
MO                   Medical Officer
MOHFW                Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NID                  National Immunization Day
PHC                  Primary Health Centre
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PPI                  Pulse Polio Inmmunization
PMR                  Project Management Report
RCH                  Reproductive and Child Health
SIDA                 Swedish International Development Agency
SCOVA                State Comrmittee on Voluntary Agency
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
VPD                  Vaccine Preventable Disease
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:     Richard L. Skolnik
Team Leader:    Tawhid Nawaz
Task Leader:    Indra Pathmanathan



INDIA
IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHENING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                         2
2. Key performance indicators                                                            2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project        2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                    6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                         7
3. Benefits and target population                                                        7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           10
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                              10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             12
2. Financial                                                                            13
3. Technical                                                                            14
4. Institutional                                                                        14
5. Social                                                                               17
6. Environment                                                                          18
7. Participatory Approach                                                               18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                       19
2. Critical risks                                                                       19
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                       20



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         29
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis Summary                                         30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            55
MAP(S)



INDIA
Immunization Strengthening Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHP
Date: March 30, 2000                              Team Leader: Indra Pathmanathan
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim            Sector Manager/Director: Richard L. Skolnik
Project ID: P067330                               Sector(s): HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): HEALTH/NUTRITION/POPULATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[l Loan        N Credit        O Grant         El Guarantee    O] Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 142.6 (SDR 106.5 mnillion)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
FPinancig Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                    16.20            0.00         16.20
IBRD
IDA                                                            10.70         131.90        142.60
Total:                                                        26.90          131.90        158.80
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF FAMILY WELFARE
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India
Address: Room No. 346, A Wing, Gate No. 5, Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001
Contact Person: Mr. A.R. Nanda
Tel: 91-11-301-8431                Fax: 91-11-301-8887                Email:
Estimated disburements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY    u      2001        2002        2003   1   204
Annual    23.4          47.0        47.9        24.3
Cumulative    23.4         70.4        118.3       142.6
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2004
OCS PAD  -% Rk MaCS. 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To (a) eradicate poliomyelitis; and (b) reduce vaccine-preventable diseases by strengthening the routine
immunization program. The proposed three-year project would represent the first phase of support for
immunization, with a second project anticipated about two years after this project becomes effective,
provided that performance is satisfactory.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The Government of India and the World Bank will conduct an annual review of the performance of the
project, which will provide the basis for the following year's implementation plan and resource allocation
decisions. The key performance indicators used for the review will be the following:
* No new polio cases after 2001.
* The proportion of districts (nationwide) in which 80% of children under one year of age complete their
primary immunization schedule (DPT3), would increase from 20% in 1999 to 25% in 2003.
* 25% of districts (nationwide) would achieve a decline in the drop-out rate of at least 10 percentage
points by 2003 (the drop-out rate is the proportion of infants who receive at least one immunization
but do not complete the immunization schedule for six vaccines [BCG, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus
polio and measles] by age one year).
*   Maintain the completeness and timeliness of surveillance reporting for polio, and establish measles
surveillance in at least five states including laboratory strengthening by 2003 (for polio surveillance,
critical indicators of completeness would be non-polio Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) reporting rate
of more than 1 per 100,000 children under 15 years of age, and timeliness would be stool collection
within 14 days for at least 60% AFP cases).
*   Proportion of children under one year of age who complete the primary imnmunization would increase
by 5% (state-wide) in Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, West Bengal, and
Uttar Pradesh by 2003; and percent dropout would reduce in 25% of districts in these states. The
percent of PHCs having sterilizers and percent planned cold chain equipment installed would be
monitored each year.
* Annual progress reports on the development of the strategic framework for immunization, including:
(a) guidelines to states for flexibility in implementation of immunization programs particularly for
campaigns, surveillance development and additional vaccine introduction; (b) studies; and (c)
technology transfer. In addition, a Working Group on lmmunization would be established to be
responsible for formulating the immunization strategy in the 10th Five Year Plan.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:                   Date of latest CAS discussion:
Board Discussion of the last full CAS (Report No. 17241-IN) was on January 15, 1998 and Board
Discussion of the CAS Progress Report (Report No. R99-12, IDA/R99-10) on February 18, 1999.
The proposed operation is fully consistent with the over-riding CAS objective of assisting India to reduce
poverty. Poliomyelitis and the other vaccine-preventable diseases all affect disproportionately the poor,
especially women and children, and imrnunization coverage is lowest among the lowest socio-economic
strata. These diseases cause premature death or lifelong disability that reduce capacity to benefit from
-2-



education and employment opportunities and place a heavy burden on the health care system. Reducing
illness and death from these diseases is completely consistent with the CAS objective of enhancing equity
and accelerating human development of the poor. Moreover, by making available to disadvantaged
families, one of the most cost-effective health interventions, the project would address a key health issue, as
proposed in the Comprehensive Development Framework. Finally, the proposed operation is
complementary to India's Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) program, which includes immunization as
a key component, and is partially financed by IDA.
India's strategic vision for its immunization program is as follows: (a) polio eradication by 2001; (b)
strengthening the immunization program to achieve 80% coverage of all districts and urban areas with the
six basic vaccines within 7-10 years; (c) an effective vaccine-preventable surveillance system and rapid
response capacity within 7-10 years; and (d) adding new vaccines to be decided during the further
elaboration of its immunization strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
* poverty-related health problems, with maternal and child health indicators below average for the
country's stage of development and income level.
*   implementation capacity of the public health and family welfare system, including the immunization
program, varies widely among the states, many of which are confronting fiscal crises. There are three
main groups of states: those with strong implementation capacity, those in which this capacity is
improving, and those where implementation capacity is weak.
* lack of a coherent health system with well-defined public-private division of responsibility, and
under-funding of primary health care.
*   poor quality of care in both the public and private sectors.
The Government of India is addressing these issues as follows:
*   since the early 1990s, India has: (a) revamped its family welfare program by eliminating
method-specific contraceptive targets and adopting a reproductive and child health program approach;
(b) strengthened its disease control programs to deal with a substantial proportion of the major disease
burden, for example, tuberculosis; and (c) embarked upon major health system strengthening efforts in
eight major states.
*   increased investments in economic growth and human development that have doubled life expectancy,
halved under-five mortality and reduced fertility by nearly half in the past 50 years, with accelerating
progress since the mid-80s, especially in fertility reduction.
*   the remaining problems are being tackled through efforts to: (a) bring about further reform at the
central, state and district level; and (b) decentralize service delivery; rationalize the public-private mix
of services; and target public sector services on the poor, with priority to primary level services.
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Routine Immunization Program in India. Overall, India has made fairly good progress on immunization.
The country reported that it had met the 1990 target of 80% coverage with the Expanded Programme of
Immunization (EPI) vaccines. Later, it became clear that reported coverage had been substantially
over-reported. False optimism based on the over-reported coverage contributed to a plateauing in program
performance in the first half of the 1990s. The best recent estimates suggest overall coverage is now about
55-60%. Nevertheless, the number of cases of vaccine-preventable diseases has continued to go down.
Polio cases declined from 24,000 in 1988 to 3,854 in 1998, notwithstanding greatly improved reporting of
the disease. The number of reported measles cases declined from 248,000 in 1987 to 34,000 in 1998, but
the actual number of cases is substantially higher at both points in time. India accounts for at least
one-quarter of all measles deaths globally.
Despite the progress achieved, India's immunization program has the potential to significantly enhance its
performance. First, both human resources and the physical infrastructure have declined since the early
1990s. Technical and program management competence have gradually eroded in the last several years.
Similarly, the cold chain - the equipment necessary to refrigerate vaccines from procurement to client use -
and the transport system have weakened, due to aging and inadequate financing. Monitoring of cold chain
functioning and vaccine supply and logistics are inadequate. Second, state-level performance is highly
varied, with low coverage in Bihar and Eastem Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and six other states, and weak
implementation in some districts and cities of virtually all states. Third, in weaker performing states, the
regularity and/or geographic access of immunization sessions is limited, and injection safety and client
counseling is inadequate. And fourth, reporting of disease outbreaks is weak, with the exception of polio,
and the capacity to respond rapidly to such outbreaks is almost universally inadequate.
Polio Eradication. Although the immunization program has included polio for more than a decade, India
accounted for more than two-thirds of the cases reported worldwide for 1998. The remaining pockets of
polio in India result from the large cohorts of children born every year, many of them in densely crowded
and unsanitary conditions conducive to the spread of disease. Achieving the global polio target of
eradication by 2000 will depend crucially on progress in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa, and
especially in India. Unless all countries interrupt the transmission of the polio virus, polio immunization
will continue to be required everywhere. Global interruption of the transmission of the polio virus, will
permit cessation of immunization five years later, generating large savings for all countries.
The reduction in polio cases in India has received a big boost since 1995, from the national immunization
days (NIDs) when all children under five are immunized, accompanied by house-to-house "mopping-up"
campaigns, and major publicity campaigns. In addition, since 1997 rapid progress has been made in
strengthening polio surveillance capacity, with support from DANIDA, including the establishment of nine
laboratories judged by WHO to be functioning well. Reporting and investigation of acute flaccid paralysis
cases is now judged to meet intemational standards. Surveillance data in 1998 indicated that massive
intensification of immunization would be required to achieve timely eradication. As a result four NIDs will
be carried out in consecutive months during the years 1999/2000, plus two additional sub-NIDs in eight
weaker performing states. The number of NIDs required subsequently will depend on the results of these
efforts. The additional costs for vaccine alone are huge: each NID in India requires vaccine costing $ 14
million. The cost of social mobilization for each NID is roughly the same amount. This is why India is
seeking additional assistance from IDA and other partners. Furthermore, it is essential to ensure that very
high proportions of infants born each year are given polio vaccine through the routine immunization
program, so that polio transmission does not recur.
-4 -



Development of an updated strategic framework for immunization. The need for an updated
framework derives from many considerations. First, although the India immunization program has
accomplished a good deal, overall program performance is sub-optimal and in several large pockets,
performance is weak. Second, the rapidly evolving epidemiological situation, technological advances, and
the varied capacity for implementation among the states, suggests the need for a strategy for the next
decade that would enable the program to deal with weaker components and states while facilitating stronger
states to take the next steps in program development. Third, despite the progress achieved, better
coordination is needed among the departments managing the five major components of the program:
vaccine production, vaccine quality assurance, service delivery, disease surveillance, and research. Fourth,
donor support to EPI is somewhat fragmented and would have greater impact if it were grounded in an
updated and comprehensive strategic framework. And fifth, India has been unable, so far, to take
advantage of global technological advances that have made available new vaccines, such as for Hepatitis B,
which account for a substantial disease burden. In the absence of national guidelines, states have
responded to vaccine-preventable disease with inefficient campaign approaches, for example, in the case of
neonatal tetanus, or by introducing new vaccines on a pilot basis, with insufficient consideration of
epidemiological factors, cost, institutional capacity, and sustainability.
Major guiding principles for a future immunization program strategy were agreed by GOI and IDA during
the October 1999 preparation mission. First, the immediate priority would be polio eradication, and
support for the National Polio Surveillance Project (NPSP) would be guaranteed until certification is
achieved. Second, strengthening the routine immunization program would be a concurrent priority, so as to
achieve and sustain acceptable immunization levels to prevent the re-introduction of polio transmission, as
well as reduce the other VPDs. Lessons learned from NPSP experience would be utilized to strengthen the
routine program. It was agreed, inter alia, that: states would have flexibility to develop their own
immunization policies, based on their individual needs; states would have freedom to adopt objectives
designed to facilitate their upward graduation on an evolving scale of immunization program effectiveness;
GOI would develop guidelines regarding campaign approaches and disease surveillance; and GOI would
establish principles to guide the addition of new vaccines and develop plans for technology transfer for the
production of auto-destruct syringes.
Strategic Choices:
*   India's successful drive towards polio eradication has resulted from a major national effort since 1995,
with substantial assistance from many development partners. IDA was asked to finance, in part, the
implementation of the final, accelerated campaign, because of its increased resource requirements and
the resulting financing gap. Other development partners are financing with grant funds, about half of
the estimated remaining vaccine and social mobilization costs of polio eradication.
*   Careful consideration was given to a project design with the single, overarching objective of eradicating
polio. This was rejected because maintaining polio eradication depends critically on strengthening the
routine program. Secondly, combining support for polio eradication with strengthening routine
immunization would give rise to synergies, as improving such elements as surveillance and service
quality would strengthen both elements of the program simultaneously.
*   It was recognized that strengthening the routine immunization program in the better performing states
is feasible within three years, but would take longer in weaker states. Therefore, the project focuses
major attention on eight large weaker states. However, only the most critical problems are included in
this component, comprising selected aspects of management, and outreach and social mobilization.
Those areas in which the appropriate strategy for strengthening the program were not clear, are
earmarked for consideration in the development of the strategic framework. Examples include (a)
achieving acceptable immunization coverage in states where very weak infrastructure and intractable
-5 -



management problems undermine capacity to deliver the routine program effectively; (b) strengthening
surveillance for VPDs other than polio; and (c) addition of new vaccines to the routine program.
*   Polio eradication requires a nation-wide approach. In addition, some aspects of routine immunization
program strengthening, for example, overall policy and vaccine supply, call for a national approach.
On the other hand, equity considerations require particular focus on weaker-performing states in
inmmunization. These considerations are reflected in the project design.
*   The immunization program in India requires mainly public sector delivery and financing. Although the
private health sector predominates for curative care, the public sector provides 90% of immunizations.
Public sector financing is justified by the large externalities and public goods aspects of immunization.
*   The private sector and NGOs both have key roles to play in social mobilization for immunization, and
in service delivery in areas where the public sector system is weak. The private sector is very active in
cities while NGOs could be mobilized to provide services in deprived rural areas.
* A multi-sectoral approach is required to achieve high coverage. The Integrated Child Development
Services (ICDS) program of the Department of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Human
Resource Development, complements the health and family welfare system by its village coverage,
having one nutrition worker per 1,000 population. In addition, the education sector, rural extension
departments, the armed services, and the postal system, among other agencies, all play a key role in
conducting the NIDs.
* Uncertainties regarding the likely course of polio eradication call for a flexible approach, so that, if
fewer NIDs are required, for example, resources could be shifted earlier than anticipated to strengthen
the routine program.
*   The rapidly changing epidemiological, technical, and program picture calls for development of a
strategic framework for immunization for the next decade, which is included in the project design.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would support acceleration of polio eradication and strengthen the routine immunization
program, which is an integral component of the nation-wide Reproductive and Child Health program. It
would have three components: (a) polio eradication; (b) strengthening routine immunization; and (c)
strategic framework development. The polio eradication component would finance about 50% of polio
vaccine and social mobilization activities for NIDs, including information, education, and communication
(IEC), training, transport, and house-to-house mop-up campaigns. The type and extent of activities and
quantum of financing required would be determnined each year by the summer surveillance data on polio
transmission and the support mobilized from other sources.
The strengthening routine immunization component would address, selectively, critical management
constraints and finance replacement of cold chain and injection safety equipment nation-wide. Management
capacity strengthening would focus on filling critical vacancies, rebuilding training in imrnunization, and
improving program monitoring and vaccine logistics. Lessons in micro-planning from the highly successful
mobilization efforts for polio eradication would be captured at national, state, district, block, and village
level to strengthen the routine immunization program. In eight weaker performing states, activities would
be implemented under the Reproductive and Child Health Program to improve regularity of, and physical
access to, community clinic sessions, that would provide immunization within a package of reproductive
and child health services, improve information to local communities and mobilize communities to utilize the
available services, and subsidize private and NGO hospitals or clinics to provide services to urban slum
communities.
-6 -



The strategic framework would articulate medium-term goals and strategies for dealing with
vaccine-preventable diseases. Certain guiding principles were agreed, as described in Section B. This
component would support studies and demonstration projects to inform further development of policies and
guiding principles, and workshops and conferences to develop national consensus on those policies and
guiding principles. It was agreed that the framework would be further elaborated during the 10th Five Year
Plan preparation process.
:  .   Indicative .   :  Bank-    %of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
.                    ~~~~~~~(US$M)   Tol    lUtitfaZn
Polio Eradication                  Targeted Health    110.80       69.8    100.20       70.3
Strengthening Routine Immunization    Institutional    43.20       27.2     38.00       26.6
Development
Strategic Framework Dev. for VPDs    Targeted Health    4.80        3.0      4.40        3.1
Total Project Costs                   158.80      100.0    142.60      100.0
Total Financing Required                   158.80      100.0    142.60      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The major policy decisions would relate to the following:
* establishment of guiding principles for adding new vaccines to the program at state or national level.
*   formulation by the GOI of a policy regarding support for state immunization programs. This policy
would consider issues such as additional support to weaker states to improve routine immunization
program performance, and facilitation of efforts by better-performing states to expand disease
surveillance in accordance with agreed guiding principles.
The major institutional reform would relate to state commitment to filling critical immunization and RCH
posts at state and district level.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would target all children up to the age of five, in order to eradicate polio and increase the
coverage of the other five vaccines, and all pregnant women, for tetanus vaccine to prevent neonatal and
maternal tetanus. Since vaccine-preventable disease in general, and polio in particular, disproportionately
affect poor families, and coverage is lowest in poorer and socially disadvantaged groups, the project would
be largely self-targeted to the poor in terms of incremental benefits.
-7 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project would be an integral component of the Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) program of the
Ministry of Health and Farmily Welfare, which is partially financed by the Bank-financed RCH project.
The Immunization Strengthening project would be managed through the structures and processes that have
been established to manage the RCH program at national, state, and district level. No separate project
implementation unit would be employed, since the experience with RCH and other projects demonstrates
that working within the bureaucratic system gradually builds ownership and commitment to the program
objectives, and, most importantly, helps to create enduring institutional capacity. The key implementation
structures include the Family Welfare departments at national and state levels, the District Family Welfare
Bureaus. The Child Health Division at national MOHFW level would be strengthened by additional
consultancy support for cold chain and vaccine logistics monitoring, including analysis of vaccine wastage,
and computerized management systems for cold chain and vaccine logistics will be established at national
and state levels. Autonomous societies known as SCOVAs, established at state level for managing funds
flow for the RCH project, have been effective in ensuring timely flow of funds from the center to the
district level. Use of the SCOVA mechanism will be a condition of disbursement to each state for this
project.
The central government finances the State and District Family Welfare Bureaus and about 70% of the
clinic-based and outreach staff who deliver immunization services, while State governments finance the
remaining 30% of staff as well as travel allowances of all staff and logistics. During campaigns, such as
the polio eradication NIDs, staff efforts are augmented by a large number of volunteers and grassroots
workers of related government departments and NGOs. The project would support honoraria for such
efforts. Phased decentralization is in progress to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), for staffing, budgetary
oversight, and program monitoring functions. The extent of decentralization varies in different states, and
is influenced by the capacity of the PRIs.
The polio eradication effort has led the Government of India (GOI) to establish an interdepartmental
National Steering Committee for Polio headed by the Cabinet Secretary with representation from all related
government departments such as, Women and Child Department, Ministry of Rural Development and
Postal Department, which have extensive networks at the field level. Similar steering committees also exist
at the State level headed by the Chief Secretary. These national and state level committees are responsible
for coordinating the polio eradication effort. The committees regularly review needs and strategies of the
national polio eradication program, assess performance and provide leadership for social mobilization.
The National Steering Committee is supported by the Interagency Co-ordination Committee (ICC). The
ICC is coordinated by WHO and has representation from UNICEF, the Bank, bilateral agencies who
provide support for polio eradication, and NGOs such as Rotary International. WHO monitors polio
surveillance activities, convenes an intemational expert group which advises on strategies, coordinates
funding requirements and mobilization of international support. UNICEF coordinates vaccine procurement
and supply, and provides technical advice on cold chain renewal and rnaintenance. Rotary mobilizes
opinion leaders and communities through its extensive nationwide network. All of these partners are
comnmitted to supporting the effort until polio is eradicated.
The national and state level steering conmmittees have been very effective as evidenced by the massive
mobilization efforts that have enabled irnmunization of more than 90% of children below age five (about
123 million children) on each National Immunization Day. GOI has also utilized the ICC mechanism with
outstanding success to mobilize international coordinated support for polio eradication from more than
eight international multilateral and bilateral agencies as well as Rotary International. The ICC is now
- 8 -



paying increasing attention to other vaccine-preventable diseases, in addition to polio.
For polio eradication, an extensive monitoring system has been established. The system includes on-site
observation of NID booths and house-to-house mopping up by independent monitors, post-NID surveys of
coverage, and special efforts to seek out zero-dose children with the assistance of grassroots NGOs such as
Christian Children's Fund, particularly in districts that had polio cases. Routine immunization is monitored
through two large scale surveys: (a) UNICEF cluster surveys that provide annual state coverage and cluster
surveys focusing on zero-dose children in high-risk districts that had polio cases during the previous
summer; and (b) bi-annual RCH household surveys that provide district coverage data. The RCH
household survey data as well as occurrence of polio cases are being used for district level micro-planning.
The RCH surveys also will monitor differentials in coverage levels for poverty versus non-poverty groups.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A. Provide financing only for polio eradication for a period of two years.
*   Routine immunization strengthening is necessary for polio eradication, since polio is an integral part of
the routine program. Program strengthening is urgently needed in general, and needs to be done at the
same time as polio eradication for maximum effect.
*   Opportune moment to capitalize on Borrower interest and commitment to do more than just polio.
*   Would miss the opportunity to advance the dialogue on development of the primary health care system,
and to link with other HNP investments such as RCH and the State Health projects.
B. Immediate nationwide scale up measures for elimination of neonatal tetanus, and nationwide
introduction of Hepatitis B.
*   Institutional and financial risks of launching into a full-scale program immediately too great.
*   Too complex to handle in a single three-year project.
C. Address all aspects of immunization as in (B) with full decentralization of financial, policy, and
institutional responsibility to states.
*   HNP experience in India shows that where program arrangements and center-state division of
responsibilities are working well, such as in the immunization and leprosy programs, there is general
acceptance of the respective roles of center, states and districts. International experience also lends
support for gradual phasing in of decentralization.
* The further transfer of responsibilities would be better implemented in a phased manmer because: (i)
Immunization involves complex technical issues for which national policy is required; (ii) the central
government is better equipped to coordinate and channel international experience to the states; (iii)
Economies of scale and quality control for procurement of vaccines and cold chain equipment require
involvement of GOI; and (iv) uneven financial and management capacity of states justifies continued
national financing with varying degrees of oversight and implementation.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _______ __ __ __ __ __               anklCfinancd  proe cts  Gnly)f
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health                            AP First Referral Health           HS             S
System
Health                             Second State Health Systems        S              S
Health                             Orissa Health Systems              S              S
Development
Health                             Maharashtra Health Systems         S              S
Development
Health                             2nd National HIV/AIDS              S              S
Health                             Tuberculosis Control               S              S
Matemai and Child Health           India Population Project VIII      S              S
Matemal and Child Health           India Population Project IX        U              S
Matemal and Child Health           Reproductive and Child Health      S              S
Matemal and Child Health           Woman and Child Development         S             S
Matemal and Child Health            Child Survival and Safe            S             S
Motherhood
Other development agencies
WHO, UNICEF, USAID, DflD, KfW,
DANIDA, SIDA, JICA, Rotary
Intemational
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A huge body of experience and literature attests to the major impact and high cost-effectiveness of
immunization programs. Since polio eradication is feasible, the savings in health costs from eliminating the
need for treatment and vaccination are enormous. Even when eradication of a disease is not possible,
inmmunization ranks among the most cost-effective health interventions (WDR, 1993). Global experience
with strengthening immunization programs demonstrates that:
* building capacity enhances the ability of the delivery system to deliver new vaccines.
*   strengthening the inununization program can result in better implementation and greater equity of
access to the full range of essential primary health care services.
India has a good track record with targeted and campaign approaches. The NIDs carried out since 1995
are the largest such activities ever carried out worldwide and their success has been acknowledged by
WHO, UNICEF and the development community. The January 1999 NID resulted in 123 million children
under five being immunized, the largest number of children ever provided with any health service in such a
short time-frame. Moreover, India has successfully carried out targeted disease-control programs with IDA
support, e.g., for Leprosy Elimination Project (Cr. 2528-IN).
- 10-



Important lessons from smallpox eradication are being applied to polio. First, program focus is on disease
surveillance rather than immunization coverage. Second, flexible control strategies are being driven by
surveillance data. For example, based on 1998 surveillance data, India adopted an accelerated eradication
strategy for 1999/2000, during which NIDs have been increased from two to four nation-wide, and two
state-wide days added in states with high transmission rates. Also, surveillance data would be used to
determiine areas where intensive mopping-up campaigns will be implemented as eradication nears. Another
lesson is that routine programs need to capture the benefits of capacity-building resulting from polio
eradication, which did not occur with the smallpox campaign. Examples include mapping of hard-to-reach
villages, use of altemate service delivery modes to reach such communities, and social mobilization using
locally available resources. Intemational experience also suggests that decentralization of immunization
program functions should be selective, and should proceed in tandem with progressive build-up of local
capacity. Several program functions have already been decentralized in the Indian program. GOI's
Reproductive and Child Health Program is building capacity at state and district levels with assistance
from the IDA financed RCH project as well as projects supported by UNICEF and UNFPA. Since project
implementation is fully integrated within the functioning of district FW Bureaus, decentralization of project
implementation would proceed as local capacity grows.
The project design also reflects the lessons from more than 20 IDA-supported HNP projects over the last
20 years including:
*   the primacy of good training, especially in-service training.
*   the need to assure the flow of essential supplies, e.g., drugs and vaccines.
*   the importance of good monitoring and evaluation, especially, in the case of EPI, of disease
surveillance and timely local response to outbreaks.
*   the need for mechanisms to assure timely start-up.
*   assured timely flow of funds to the project.
*   most important of all, borrower comrnitment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOI has a long-standing, strong commitment to immunization, dating from 1985 when the Prime Minister
strongly endorsed the WHO/UNICEF goals in this area. Subsequently, the Prime Minister signaled
immunization as top priority by launching it as a technical mission out of his own office. This commitment
has not diminished over time and the current administration, in general, and the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare in particular, have reiterated their strong commitment to eradicating polio and
strengthening the overall immunization effort. Immunization remains on the 20-point list for regular
Cabinet monitoring. Experience with the RCH program and with polio eradication efforts further
demonstrate this commitment, and assure timely project start-up.
GOI has invested very heavily in EPI and since 1997 has provided most of the additional support required
for the program, especially for its vaccine requirements. In May 1999, GOI representatives played an
active role in the WHO/SEARO regional meeting to accelerate polio eradication and review the EPI
program. They enthusiastically committed GOI to the activities to be undertaken with partial support from
this proposed project. In addition, an Inter-agency Coordinating Committee (ICC) was established for
polio eradication in 1999, chaired by the Secretary of Family Welfare. The ICC meets regularly, and a
core sub-group meets on a weekly basis. Finally, the fact that India is prepared to borrow for polio
eradication and immunization strengthening is further indication of its commitment to the development
objectives of this project.
- 11 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* IDA is the largest health sector financier in India and globally, with substantial cross-country
experience, and therefore well-situated to assist in improving the quality of the EPI program, linking
the program to other health investments, including others financed by IDA, and in developing a refined
strategic plan.
* the Bank Group is the largest source of external assistance to India, convenes the annual development
forum, and plays a major coordinating role in many sectors, including the health sector.
* without IDA involvement, GOI and its development partners would not be able to marshall the massive
additional resources needed for polio, in time for the target date for eradication.
* IDA involvement has contributed to GOI recognition of the need for a long-termn strategic framework
for immunization.
*   Of the external partners on health, IDA is uniquely suited to link sectoral work with macro-econonic
factors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR= %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Project preparation and design were influenced by economic analysis which included an assessment of the
economic rationale, cost effectiveness, benefit incidence, and demand analysis.
Justjif cation: Using standard public finance criteria, it is not difficult to justify public involvement in, and
financing of, strengthening the capacity to deliver and monitor immunizations and for the campaign to
eradicate polio. Hammer (Economic Analysis for Health Projects, May 1996) finds that infectious diseases
provide a prima facie case for government intervention on three grounds: (a) externalities (spread and
incomplete course of treatment); (b) some options are pure public goods (vector control, information); and
(c) they disproportionately affect the poor. While most non-information services involved are private in
nature (rival and exclusionary), there are substantial social associated externalities. The case of polio
vaccination is unique, however, in that it exhibits both characteristics of a public good. When the vaccine
is administered orally to many children in a community, the virus multiplies in their intestines and is
released in much larger quantities in excreta. The attenuated virus competes in the environment with the
circulating wild virus which is responsible for polio. As a result, the benefits are non-rival and
non-exclusionary and therefore public goods. Furthermore, all the elements of the Behavior Change
Communication activities to be supported by the project are pure public goods.
Equity: With the burden of vaccine-preventable disease falling heavily on the poorest and most vulnerable
households, investments in immunization programs should benefit the poor. Benefit and outcome-incidence
analysis using nationally representative household surveys, however, show limited use of immunization
services by the poorest families in India. Children in 44 percent of the poorest households had not received
any immunization in 1993 as compared to only 11 percent in the richest households. This strong
relationship between income and immunization coverage was also found in more recent household surveys
(1996 and 1998). Econometric analysis demonstrates that income continues to play an important role in
immunization coverage even after controlling for other socio-economic factors.
Analysis of household surveys also indicates that female literacy, caste, and the number of same sex older
siblings, affect coverage. The most recent available household survey (1998) also sheds some light on the
- 12 -



reasons for low coverage among some socio-economic groups. A sizable proportion of households with no
immunization coverage was not aware of the need for imnmunization or the time and place it was available.
Social assessments helped explain further the demand factors influencing lower use by the poor. The
findings from benefit-incidence analysis, demand analysis, and the social assessments directly influenced
the design of the project by directing more resources and attention to the demand aspects of immunization
and strengthening the Behavior Change Communications component. Findings from the 1998 survey also
allowed project design to address some of the weaknesses in the supply of immunization services by
identifying the level of care provision most likely to reach the poor - village outreach - allowing more
precise targeting of limited resources.
Cost-effectiveness: In addition to a clear economic rationale for public involvement in immunization,
cost-effective interventions are necessary. An assessment of the cost-effectiveness of the immunization
program in India confirns international finding that immunization services are among the best buys in
health. Routine inmunization in India is highly cost-effective with the cost per Disability Adjusted Life
Year gained (DALY) ranging from $5 to $37, while the cost per death averted ranged between $514 and
$1,233. Simulations for improvements of efficacy and program coverage demonstrated a higher return to
increases in coverage.
Public/Private Roles: The private sector plays a major role in health service delivery in India, but mainly
for curative rather than preventive care. Analysis of demand for immunization shows that in 1997-98, less
than 10 percent of immunizations were delivered by the private sector, and most of those were in urban
settings. The public sector remains the main provider of routine immunization services, especially through
the lowest levels of the health system (PHC/CHC, sub-center, and village sessions). The private sector,
however, plays a larger role in social mobilization for campaign modes of delivery such as Pulse Polio
Immunization Days.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (seeAnnex4)
Project-specific budgetary implications were analyzed with an eye to financial sustainability, budgetary
impact, and absorptive capacity. Time-trend analysis of immunization expenditures was conducted to
provide baseline information for ensuring the incrementality of IDA funds.
Polio Eradication is the largest component of the project, representing 69.8 percent of the total project cost.
Within the Polio component, 91 percent of the resources are earmarked for the procurement of vaccines and
the remainder is for social mobilization. Financial sustainability is not an issue since the campaigns will
end with eradication of the disease. In fact, the total earmark for Polio may not be used. Project design
took into account that the fact that the number of NIDs in years 1, 2 and 3 of the project will depend on the
polio surveillance findings. If; as expected, remaining pockets of wild polio virus are localized, the number
of NIDs would be reduced, producing budgetary savings that could be applied to strengthening routine
immunization. There remains the risk, however, that eradication will be delayed, requiring additional funds
in the future. But the effective surveillance system and the targeted mop-up strategy should minimize that
risk-
Absorptive capacity considerations for the Polio component were not found to be substantial. The recent
experience with NIDs produced no serious signs of system fatigue and provided proof of the ability of the
system to manage these activities on a continual basis. Several other development partners are supporting
Polio eradication with funds and technical assistance, including CDC, DfLD, EC, JICA, KfW, UNF,
UNICEF, USAID, and WHO.
- 13-



The Immunization Strengthening component includes funds for training, monitoring and maintenance
designed to address weak elements of routine immunization. The strategy design component of the project
will attempt to address the sustainability issue by considering the development of equalization funds or
other budgetary mechanisms to better target resource allocation.
Fiscal Impact:
Detailed analysis of current spending on polio and EPI, including sources of funds, examined the possible
fiscal impact of the project on GOI budgets. At issue are the complex financing arrangements between the
center and states since immunization services are centrally funded but rely on state-level activities such as
staffing and supervision. The variable performnance by states was analyzed from a financial perspective to
ensure adequate funding for critical inputs at all levels. Moreover, the long-term sustainability was
analyzed. The recurrent cost implications of the project (less than 5 percent of total project cost) will not
have any medium or long term budgetary impact.
3. Technical:
The proposed project is technically justified by the size and importance of the problem addressed, the status
of vaccine quality, progress on the cold chain, injection safety, reporting, training, and surveillance, and the
level of public demand and social support.
a  Importance of the problem: vaccine-preventable diseases are responsible for a large proportion of the
burden of disease in India, and India accounts for a large share of the world burden from poliomyelitis,
measles, and tetanus.
V Vaccine quality and quality monitoring: these are satisfactory.
C Cold chain: gaps in equipment availability and maintenance have been identified and partly addressed;
remaining gaps would be addressed by the project.
-  Injection safety: problems have been identified and would be addressed by the project.
.   Over-reporting of immunization coverage: household surveys are correcting this problem.
e   Training: technical and program management skills gaps have been identified and would be addressed
by the project.
-  Disease surveillance: the need has been recognized, a good start has been made with polio, and the
lessons will be applied in the elaboration of the strategic framework.
-   Public demand: immunization services are now strongly demanded by all sections of society, including
those most deprived, and enjoys support from village-level to the highest levels of government.
A comprehensive technical assessment was carried out by WHO as part of project preparation, and the
34-page report is available in the project files. The project design was based on this report as well as
analysis from GOI and others (see list of project documents) which will also provide input for elaboration
of the strategic framework.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The main strengths of India's Family Welfare program are the development of an extensive service delivery
structure with effective outreach to most rural areas, established management structures at center, state,
district, and block level, and linkages to related outreach programs such as that of the Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS) program. Family planning and immunization are the longest-running and
strongest components of the Family Welfare program. During the past decade, these two components have
been absorbed into an increasingly effective integrated Reproductive and Child Health program.
- 14 -



b. Project management:
The institutional assessment of the proposed project was based on knowledge gleaned from the
long-standing relationship between IDA and MOHFW, especially in relation to implementation of the RCH
project; two missions, which included detailed discussions at central, state, and district level, with a wide
range of key stakeholders, including managerial and technical personnel, field staff, beneficiaries, and
community representatives; and the findings of a large number of reviews and studies by MOHFW, WHO,
UNICEF, and other agencies. A comprehensive institutional assessment report is available in the project
files. It has informed project design, and will provide guidance in designing complementary activities in the
RCH program.
Findings: The major findings of the assessment were:
* decline of the technical leadership, vision and management of the EPI program at central, state and
district during the past seven years due to:
a. transition of immunization from a stand alone activity to a Child Survival and Safe Motherhood
program, and subsequently to a RCH program.
b. resultant management and communications problems.
c. failure to take optimum advantage of the opportunities within the broader RCH program to
improve routine immunization.
d. failure to capitalize on the deep commitment to immunization that exists in state administrations.
*   system stress on the human and physical infrastructure of the program arising from:
a. in most states:
-     cessation of specialized in-service training in immunization program management.
-     aging and maintenance problems in cold chain and injection safety equipment.
-     dis-continuation of earlier program monitoring and supervision procedures, for example,
the regular review meetings.
-     lack the micro-planning capacity.
b. in addition, in weaker performing states:
-     heavy workloads arising from high birth rates coupled with field staff vacancies.
-      insufficient financial resources, particularly for transport and per diem allowances, and
staff and supervisor mobility.
-     particularly heavy demands imposed by the polio eradication program.
The project response. The project would address critical gaps in management capacity and processes and
gaps in selected aspects of the immunization hardware infrastructure nation-wide. Lessons in
micro-planning from the highly successful polio eradication efforts would be applied at national, state,
district, and block, and village level to strengthen the routine immunization program. (See Annex 2: Project
Component 2: Strengthening Routine Immunization).
In weaker performing states, a project covenant would require states to fill critical posts as a condition of
disbursement. In addition, another project covenant would monitor that the eight weaker performing states,
implement as agreed, additional community clinics and community mobilization activities under the RCH
program, to increase access to regular irmmunization services within a larger package of RCH services.
Recognizing the district-specific nature of service delivery and demand generation requirements, and the
weak capacity in these states, it is necessary to view these activities as initial learning processes within a
longer-term process, that will not be comnpleted during the three-year project period. Some
weaker-performing states (such as West Bengal, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and potentially, Rajasthan) are
- 15-



embarking on health sector or economic re-structuring projects that are expected to eventually ensure
adequate funding for primary care including staff mobility and logistics. For other states (such as Bihar),
alternate strategies will be outlined as part of the exercise for the development of the long term strategic
framework for VPDs.
c. Procurement issues:
The "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, Revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply to all Goods and Works financed under
the project. The "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
(January 1997, Revised in September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply to all consultants' services
financed under the project.
Key features of this project would be (a) procurement of oral polio vaccines by UNICEF; and (b) use of a
procurement agent experienced in Bank guidelines and procedures for procurement of non-polio vaccines
items. It is estimated that items to be procured by the procurement agent will be immunization equipment
such as cold chain equipment, stoves and sterilizers, printing of registers and cards, some pharmaceuticals
and other vaccines. Services to be procured will be institutional and those of individual consultants. All
other procurement of small items, including hiring of local folk media groups, hiring of publicity services,
and hiring of vehicles, etc., will be carried out at State/District level.
To ensure that disbursements can start immediately upon project effectiveness, the MOHFW/procurement
agent has submitted to the Bank, a procurement plan (firm for the first year and tentative for the second
year), draft bidding documents of prior review packages for the first year of the project and draft contract
for procurement of polio oral vaccines from UNICEF. Similarly, a list of consultants to be appointed at
national level as well as a list specifying services requiring individual and institutional consultants will also
be forwarded to the Bank for review.
There are no civil works under the Project. Detailed procurement arrangements are indicated in Annex 6.
d. Financial management issues:
Financial management arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 6. The funding to MOHFW
would be through the annual budget. Flow of funds from MOHFW to SCOVAs will be on a quarterly
basis through banking channels. The initial allocation will be based on the cash flow forecasts of SCOVAs
(which in turn would be based on their work programs and budgets). Subsequent funding will be based on
performance of key indicators and the projected funds requirement of SCOVAs. The flow of funds from
SCOVAs to districts and from districts to Community Health Centres (CHCs)/Primary Health Centres
(PHCs) will also be through banking channels.
An integrated computerized financial management system will be implemented for the project. The key
tasks that will be carried out to implement the integrated financial management system are: (a) design,
development and installation of PFMS software - expected to be completed by November 30, 2000; (b)
procurement of necessary hardware at MOHFW and the participating states - expected to be completed by
October 31, 2000; (c) recruitment of staff both at MOHFW and the states - expected to be completed by
December 31, 2000; and (d) training of the staff in the implementation of the PFMS expected to be
completed by February 28, 2001.
Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and would be converted to
the LACI procedures (i.e. based on Project Management Reports, PMR's) after the successful
- 16 -



implementation of the computerized PFMS.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$14.1 million equivalent would cover
eligible expenditure for implementing activities after March 15, 2000. Retroactive financing would
support: preparation activities including preparation of procurement documents and model plans, studies,
vaccines and operational expenditures.
Audit: MOHFW Accounts will be audited by the Controller and Auditor General of India (C&AG). The
SCOVAs will be audited by Chartered Accountant firmns. A consolidated annual project financial
statement will be submitted by MOHFW within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year (as required
under the Bank's Operational Policies) supported by audit reports of MOHFW and SCOVAs. These audit
reports will be monitored in ARCS. The terms of reference and qualifications of the firm of Chartered
Accountants will be reviewed by the Bank. The firm of Chartered Accountants will be appointed before
the start of the project.
The audit report on special account maintained by DEA would include a summary of SA transactions and
the closing balance held by RBI. The audit report on SA would also be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year. This report will also be monitored under ARCS.
5. Social:
Data sources and methodology. The social assessment is based on data from several recent surveys,
studies, reports prepared by DflD, INCLEN and UNICEF, and consultative meetings held by the Bank
team with govenmuent and non-govemment stakeholders at national level and in five states. (For details see
Participation and Social Data Sheet in the Project File).
Findings.
Routine immunization:
3  Although about 73% of infants receive at least one immunization dose, only about 55% complete their
full immunization schedule by age one year.
*   State performance is varied, three large states achieve above 80% coverage, but eight large states have
low routine immunization coverage ranging from 16% to 55%.
-  Only about 50% of children had immunization cards, and evidence suggest that this contributes to
dropouts.
* Children with lower imrnmunization rates are: lowest wealth quintile, scheduled castes; scheduled tribes,
many of whom live in areas with poor infrastructure, urban slum dwellers.
*  There is no gender differential.
*  During household interviews, reasons given for zero or partial immunization included: (a) lack of
awareness about the need (30%); (b) lack of awareness of place and time of vaccination (322%); (c)
child or mother sick, or no one to fetch the child, or vaccine/vaccinator not present (22%).
Polio eradication:
*  coverage is much higher - reaching 96% of children under five years old.
*   Contributory factors include: very broad participation, use of surveillance information to identify
pockets of population with zero dose children, meticulous micro-planning and social mobilization to
reach unreached communities, and house-to-house visits following the NID.
*  The unreached groups had essentially similar characteristics as those who did not receive routine
imrnunization.
*  Reasons for non-immunization included: (a) unaware of need, time or place (49%); (b) obstacles such
- 17-



as no one to take the child, date/time was inconvenient, or doctor advised against it (35%); and (c)
apathy, no faith in vaccine, doubt efficacy because child fell ill after vaccination (2 1%).
Project design: The findings of the social assessment are reflected in strategies for the improvement of
service delivery, training, information, education and communications (IEC) and community participation.
See Annex 2 for details. Strengthening routine immunization will focus on (a) ensuring that children
who receive at least one immunization complete the full schedule before their first birthday; and (b)
reaching out to the unreached. For polio eradication, the focus would be on: (a) sustaining the high level
of commitment required for four (or in the weaker states, six) NIDs; and (b) reaching the remaining pools
of unreached communities.
Tribal Strategy: MOHFW is implementing a Tribal Reproductive and Child Health strategy and action
plan (Annex 8) to promote health in tribal areas, covering approximately 518 distinct groups located in five
major tribal belts across the country. The strategy recognizes the special characteristics and reproductive
health care needs of the tribal communities and constraints in meeting these needs, reflecting the unique
problems of physical and social access to tribal groups. The action plan includes measures to improve
health infrastructure in tribal areas, increase the numbers of grass-roots health staff from tribal
communities, and utilize tribal youth as community mobilizers and communicators. This project will
monitor immunization coverage in tribal areas and the implementation of planned community clinics and
mobilization efforts in tribal districts.
The process of social assessment would continue during the life of the project and beyond by putting in
place mechanisms for community assessment and feedback. The annual RCH district-level surveys would
provide data for baseline as well as ongoing monitoring. Qualitative studies would be conducted in
conjunction with other partners such as UNICEF, DfID, USAID and WHO.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: C
The project does not involve any significant environmental risks. Support for the immunization program
would improve the safe disposal of syringes and needles. A review of injection safety during project
preparation led to the decision not to use disposable syringes in the project, but to continue with re-usable
syringes and needles until auto-destruct needles are adopted in the program. GOI is fully committed to the
replacement of cold chain equipment with CFC-free equipment in accordance with the Montreal protocol,
by the required date.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primnary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
MOHFW and the Bank consulted and actively collaborated with numerous key stakeholders. Primary
beneficiaries consulted included the parents of children 0-5 years of age. Other key stakeholders included:
* functionaries of Family Welfare and other govemment departments such as Health, Women and Child
Development (WCD), Rural Development.
*  professional and technical agencies.
*   Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs/local govermment).
*   NGOs (national and international), community groups, and private sector groups.
*   UN agencies and bilateral donors.
- 18 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Stakeholders collaborated in project preparation as follows: through (a) national-level workshops with
center and state representatives of various government departments (Planning, Family Welfare, Health,
WCD), technical and research institutes (NIN, NIHFW, IIMR, NICD); (b) state-level workshops with
national, state and district-level staff (Health and Family Welfare, WCD, Rural Development), NGOs and
community groups, U.N. agencies and bilateral donors; (c) Bank and other donors joining MOHFW in
developing the preliminary draft of the Strategic Framework; (d) over 60 NGOs attending a workshop
aimed at expanding government!NGO partnerships for polio eradication and improving routine
inmmunization; and (e) village-level consultations with beneficiaries, polio booth keepers, PRI members,
NGOs, and community groups.
Important mechanisms for on-going consultation are the National and state level Steering Committees for
Polio and the Inter-Agency Co-ordination Committee (ICC) described in Section C 4.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*  The Government of India and the states are strongly commnitted to the project.
o   The fiscal implications of the project are relatively small.
* GOI has provided major support to the inmmunization program for fifteen years, and has assumed a
greater proportion of the financial burden over time.
-   The project enjoys support from all key stakeholders.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Ris _t                 Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Polio eradication. There is a risk that the  H        1. An international partnership is assisting GOI
accelerated strategy of four NIDs plus 2             through the ICC mechanism to monitor coverage
SNIDs will not raise polio inmmunization             in each NID and rapidly address shortfalls.
coverage in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and              2. Special partnerships have been established in
in all hard-to-reach pockets sufficiently to         Bihar through the BIMAA mechanism to
interrupt polio transmission by the end of           generate community pressures and upgrade state
the year 2000. This would delay global                government commitment. Similar efforts are
polio eradication.                                    being fostered in Uttar Pradesh.
3. The project design responds to the uncertainty
of when polio will be eradicated by building in
flexibility to shift resources to routine system
strengthening as progress on polio allows.
From Components to Outputs
Strengthening Routine Immunization         M          1. 1 All states would be required to utilize the
1. Inadequate flow of funds to                       SCOVA mechanism which has proved effective
implementing districts and cities.                   in the RCH project.
- 19-



2. Weak implementation due to delay in     M          2.1 Vaccine for polio eradication will be
procurement of goods.                                procured through UNICEF, and procurement of
other goods will be done through a procurement
agent which has demonstrated adequate capacity
in the RCH project.
3. GOI provided assurances at               H         3.1 A specific covenant requires that, in these
Negotiations that community clinics and              states "at least 60% of planned community
associated community mobilization                     clinic sessions providing immunization and
activities would be undertaken in states              reproductive health services are held in districts
with low inmmunization coverage, under               to,be agreed from time to time between the
the RCH program. These activities have                Borrower, the respective project states and the
not yet been specified. There is a high risk          Association." During Negotiations it was
that such activities will not be                      agreed that "the Borrower would promptly
implemented effectively within the project            design (such) activities and share with the
period, considering the three year project            Association the implementation details and time
duration, history of start-up delays in              lines for such activities". This is noted in the
other projects, and weak management                   Minutes of Negotiations, which further note the
capacity.                                            importance of achieving benchmarks agreed
with IDA missions on this covenant.
4. Shortfall in field service delivery staff  S       The RCH project provides financing to address
and funds for staff mobility is likely to            the staff shortfalls, and this project provides
reduce implementation capacity in                    funds for staff mobility. Madhya Pradesh and
Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar                      Rajasthan have started training programs that
Pradesh, and Bihar.                                   are expected to produce sufficient numbers
within two years. In Uttar Pradesh, the issue
has been partially addressed through the RCH
project, and will be dealt with further through
the proposed State Health Systems project. In
Bihar, continued exploration of viable strategies
is planned through the annual review of
progress in the Strategic Framework.
5. Frequent transfers of key program staff  S         In Uttar Pradesh, the proposed State Health
is likely to affect implementation                    Systems project is expected to address this
progress, particularly in Uttar Pradesh              issue. In Bihar, it is expected that the BIMAA
and Bihar.                                            mechanism would provide some leverage for
civil society, GOI and donors to work with the
state government to address this issue within the
context of polio eradication.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
-20 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Implementation
(a) GOI would allocate each year, sufficient resources for GOI's childhood immunization program;
(b) GOI would implement the project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan;
(c) GOI and the eight weaker performing project focus states of Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh would implement at least 60% of
planned conmmunity clinics providing routine immunization and reproductive and child health
services in districts to be agreed from time to time with the Association;
(d) GOI would implement a tribal strategy as specified in the Project Implementation Plan;
(e) GOI would provide each year, an Annual Action Plan acceptable to the Association;
(f) GOI would provide a statement articulating the guiding principles for adding new vaccines to the
program at state or national level by June 2002.
Management aspects of the project executing agencies
(a) GOI would engage, and cause each project state to engage, a financial manager assisted by
adequate staff with skills, qualifications and experience agreed with the Association;
(b) GOI would obtain commitments from each participating State to: (i) fill at least 80% of
sanctioned posts of technical officers for the Family Welfare Program at State and district level,
and designate a specific officer for every district to be responsible for immunization by no later
than December 31, 2000; and (ii) fill at least 80 percent of sanctioned ANM positions by
December 31, 2002 and in the event that insufficient candidates are available to fill such
positions, recruit into government training institutions by March 31, 2001, sufficient candidates
to fill the desired percent of positions.
Project Covenants that would be conditions of disbursement for each state.
Flow of funds (flow and utilization of project funds)
(a) Receipt of the signed Letter of Undertaking acceptable to IDA between each participating
state and GOI, would be a condition for GOI to frnance activities or supply equipment or
drugs to any particular state;
(b) The Letters of Undertaking between GOI and project States would include provisions that the
state would establish a mechanism acceptable to IDA, for the transfer of funds from the GOI to
the project implementing agencies at district or institutional levels;
(c) Notification to the Association from GOI that the project state is in full compliance with the
audit covenants under the Reproductive and Child Health project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
5Z 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
- 21 -



project implementation.
I 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Submission of overdue audit certificates from some project states in the Reproductive and Child Health
project that is being implemented by the Department of Family Welfare.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Exception to compliance with OP/BP 10.02 "Financial Management", paragraph 8 is
recommended for approval. Audit certificates are overdue from 12 of the 35 project states and
institutions that are implementing the India: Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) project
(Cr. NO 18-IN) and the India: Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Kamataka) project
(Population IX) (Cr. 2630). However, 20 of the 25 states and institutions with significant
expenditure under these two projects have submitted audit certificates and the Borrower has
provided evidence that a process has been put in place to develop remedial action plans to address
the audit qualifications. The DCA includes a project covenant to the effect that when currently
non-complying states have achieved full compliance with the audit covenants under the
Reproductive and Child Health Project they would become eligible to participate in this project.
Indra Pathmanathan               Richard L. Skolnik                     R. Lim
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director       |  Country Manager/Director
TawhM Kawaz L'
India IINP Team Leader
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA. Immunization Strengthening Project
;   . ..        ' ::   ~Key pe#forman   |y e                 
Hierarphy of 9Q,jeptives           In#Wators           Monitoring 4& Evaluation   -:.Cti pgl M4A mptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction and
accelerated human
development through
improved health of poor
children and women of
reproductive age.
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
1. Eradication of           1.1 No new polio cases after  Polio surveillance reports with Continued success of
poliomyelitis and reduction of 2001.                    comments from WHO.          multisectoral social
vaccine preventable diseases                                                        mobilization efforts, especially
(VPDs) through strengthening 1.2 Percent of infants fully    Routine reporting and RCH    NIDs.
of the routine irnmunization   immunized by age one with   district household sample
program.*                   six basic vaccines would    surveys.                     GOI and its partners able to
increase from 55.3% in 1999                             strengthen the overall
to 60% in 2003.                                         implementation of the EPI
program.
*Currently, VPDs are
under-reported. Strengthening of
the routine inmmunization
program will include
strengthening the surveillance
system for vaccine preventable
diseases. As a result of such
strengthening, reporting of VPDs
is expected to increase.
Therefore, the percent of children
protected against VPDs by
immunization by age one would
be used as a proxy indicator for
this development objective.
Output from each            Output Indicators:          Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Component 1: Polio          1.1 No new cases of polio    Polio surveillance.         Timely flow of funds and
eradication                 reported after 2001.                                     supplies, effective
1. Polio transmission halted                                                        implementation of NIDs and
as evidenced by good quality  1.2 Reporting of non-polio                             successful mopping-up
surveillance data.          acute flaccid paralysis case at                          campaigns.
the rate of at least 1 per
100,000 children below 15
years of age.
1.3 Stool collection from at
least 60% of acute flaccid
paralysis cases within 14 days.
-23 -



Component 2: Strengthening 2.1 Percent of districts  Routine reporting and RCH    Continued strong commitment
routine immunization.     nationwide with 80% coverage district household surveys.    of GOI to the EPI program,
(2a) Improved coverage of   of fully immunized children                         and continued technical
routine immunization services under one year increased from                     assistance from WHO,
and reduction in program  20 % in 2000 to 25 % in 2003.                         UNICEF and other
dropouts.                                                                       development partners.
(Dropouts are infants who    2.2 Increase by 5% of fully
receive at least one      immunized children under age          - do -          Availability of the vaccine and
immunization but do not   one by 2003 in each of the                            demand from clients.
complete the schedule for six project focus states of Assam,
vaccines [BCG, diphtheria,   Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya
tetanus, pertussis and    Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan,
measles] by age one year).   West Bengal and Uttar
Pradesh.
2.3 At least 25% of districts in UNICEF coverage evaluation
the eight project focus states  survey.
achieve 10 percent decline in
dropout rates by 2003.
(2b) Improved cold chain and                         RCH Facility surveys.
injection safety equipment.   2.4 Improved percent PHCs
having sterilizers.
MOHFW reports.
2.5 Acceptable percent
planned cold chain equipment
installed.
3. Strategic framework in    3.1 Establishment of a  Annual Reports             Immunization will remain a
place by 2003.            Working Group on                                      key GOI priority.
Immnunization for formulating
the immunization strategy for
the 1 0th Five Year Plan.
3.2 Annual reports on
progress with development
and implementation of policy
guidelines, strategies and
studies.
- 24 -



Key Pezforrnance
Hierarchy of Objetivos           Indipators         Monito#ing-& Eyaj jon C-  W E -  a    sumptiOPs:
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Polio eradication      1. I Polio vaccine         Polio surveillance reports,    Ministry of Health and Family
nationwide.               1.2 Social mobilization    evaluation reports from the   Welfare and multisectoral
including IEC, training,  ICC including coverage     capacity.
transport.                evaluations, social
assessments including
qualitative studies, mini
-surveys in communities
where AFP cases are reported.
2. Strengthening routine  2.1 (a) Strengthened program Project statistics       Central and state MOHFW
Immunization.             management                                            capacity.
2.1 Institutional         (b) human resource
strengthening nationwide.    development
(c) strengthened program
2.2 Outreach and social   monitoring
mobilization in eight weaker (d) strengthened cold chain
performing states.        and injection safety equipment
and its maintenance.
3. Strategic framework    Pilot projects, studies,   Project reports            Central and state MOHFW
evaluation, workshops.                               capacity.
-25 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
The project objective is to eradicate poliomyelitis and reduce vaccine preventable diseases by strengthening
the routine immunization program.
A concise description of the routine immunization program and of polio eradication activities is available in
the Project files as well as in the Project Implementation Plan.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$100.20 million
Polio Eradication
The project would provide support for about 50% of polio vaccine and social mobilization required to carry
out the NIDs and sub-NIDS in states where polio transmission is significant. Social mobilization activities
would include orientation and training, transport, IEC, surveys and evaluations, managing polio booths and
other activities necessary to assure coverage of the target population. The number of NIDs and sub-NIDs
in states with significant transmission would be deternined annually, based on surveillance data of polio
cases that occur during the Summer transmission season. At about the end of each Summer, WHO, with
assistance from the International Certification Commnittee, would review the surveillance data and provide
advice to GOI and the Bank regarding activities required for the next 12-month period. Project activities
and the required budget would be reviewed and adjusted accordingly.
Project Component 2 - US$38.00 million
Strengthening Routine Immunization
This component would support a number of activities to improve the quality of routine immnunization. The
activities would address critical weaknesses in program management (such as monitoring, micro-planning,
and training) and selectively upgrade equipment for the cold chain and injection safety, and upgrade disease
surveillance capacity in selected laboratories. Specific activities would include:
(a) strengthening program management by: (i) strengthening capacity by appointment of a cold chain
officer in the MOHFW; (ii) management review and facilitation at MOHFW and state FWD levels for
improved role clarification and team approaches for inmmunization within the integrated RCH Program,
including other aspects of child health, matemal health and family planning and with other relevant units
such as those responsible for monitoring, training, IEC, NGOs, procurement and financial management.
Revised Program Management guidelines would be produced for irnmunization at all levels in the system,
within the RCH framework and for augmented service delivery in some states. The project would finance
consultants and technical assistance, study tours, and vehicle hire to increase supervisory staff mobility.
(b) human resource development in immunization management for staff at MOHFW, state and district
level, including training in micro-planning, vaccine forecasting and logistics, program monitoring and
evaluation, safe injection techniques, adverse event monitoring, response to disease outbreaks, social
mobilization, and community involvement. In addition, specialized training will be provided on cold chain
maintenance and for cold chain users. Training under this project will complement the training provided
under the RCH program, which would strengthen and integrate immunization issues in on-going training
for all relevant categories of staff. The project would support workshops, consultants and technical
assistance, training materials and equipment.
- 26 -



(c) strengthening program monitoring including: (i) computerized monitoring systems for the cold chain
and for vaccine logistics, including necessary hardware for computing and communications, and software
development and training; (ii) planning and review meetings at national and state levels; (iii) computerized
management information system; and (iv) additional local surveys and studies.
(d) strengthening cold chain and injection safety equipment and its maintenance including support for:
(i) needed replacement and expansion of cold chain and injection safety equipment; (ii) cold chain
maintenance; (iii) equipment and materials for surveillance laboratories; and (iv) essential pharmaceuticals.
Related activities in the RCH program.
In addition, GOI has provided assurances that in the eight largest weaker performing states, additional
activities would be implemented under the RCH program to respond to local needs, in order to improve
access and thereby increase the percent of eligible children who receive timely routine imrnunization.
Initially such activities would be in the eight weaker performing states that are the project focus states,
namely Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Orissa, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. Focus would
be on: (a) ensuring that children who receive at least one immunization complete the full schedule before
their first birthday; and (b) reaching out to the un-reached. Micro-planning based on recent experience
from polio eradication, would be used to identify villages that have limited access to regular services. GOI
has provided assurances that, under the RCH program, additional community clinics together with
appropriate community mobilization and information dissemination efforts would be implemented on a
regular basis for villages and urban slums that do not have a fixed health facility. Such clinics would
provide routine immunization as a component in a package of RCH services. This project would monitor
closely, the implementation of such clinic sessions.
Based on findings of program evaluations (see document in project files), activities to address program
weaknesses would include improvement of staff mobility, thereby reducing time spent on travel and
increasing time for client counseling and information. IEC through local media and local leaders would
support and augment information from staff, and provide information about time and place of
immunization sessions. Particular emphasis in IEC and counseling would be on timely completion of the
schedule. Convergence with the ICDS outreach program will be strengthened in administrative blocks
where it is weak. In tribal areas, efforts would be made to mobilize communities and strengthen linkages
with health staff. Mapping and social mobilization strategies developed for the polio campaigns would
identify harder-to-reach communities and provide services through altemate mechanisms. Such
mechanisms would include periodic "catch-up" camps, partnerships with NGOs and private sector
providers, and, for urban slums, mobilization and partnerships with public and private sector hospitals as
well as with the wide range of available public, corporate, and private sector medical providers.
In remote, inaccessible villages, alternate strategies could include periodic camps, or "catch-up rounds" for
villages with high dropout rates, or mini-campaigns in communities that have high proportions of
never-immunized children. The urban slums activities would support the integration of RCH (including
immunization) in existing hospitals and clinics in the public, private and NGO sectors that are accessible to
urban slum communities, and support social mobilization in the urban slum communities to facilitate
utilization of such services. Community mobilization would include support for activities such as
sensitization workshops for local leaders, traditional practitioners, school-teachers and school children and
workers from other public sector outreach programs, community volunteers, and improved information
using locally-relevant IEC based on local socio-anthropological studies. To the extent feasible, the
activities would be designed to be responsive to local needs, and provide flexibility in implementation.
- 27 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 4.40 million
Strategic Framework Development for Vaccine Preventable Diseases (VPDs).
This component would support the activities required to develop a strategic framework to deal with
Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (VPDs) during the next 7-10 years. The framework would articulate the
medium-term goal, and enunciate guiding principles regarding key issues such as (a) future development of
VPD surveillance, ensuring that lessons leamed from polio are not lost after polio is eradicated; (b)
flexibility for states to implement their own strategies based on individual needs and designed to facilitate
their graduation on an evolving scale of immunization program effectiveness; (c) addition of vaccines to the
program at state or national level; and (d) plans for technology transfer to support program development
such as production of auto-destruct syringes or local production of some vaccines. In addition, the
strategic framework would provide the vehicle for further development of special strategies needed in Uttar
Pradesh and Bihar, for providing continued operational flexibility in use of budgets after the end of the
project, and for enhancing the role of Panchayats and communities in increasing the accountability of the
program. Support would be provided for demonstration projects and evaluations, preparation of reports,
workshops, seminars, and consensus-building meetings, and for activities related to disease surveillance.
-28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
! ; ... ~~~~~~~Lcai                               F~. Fign    -  TotalE
Proiect Cost 'By Component        -     US $milrion   lS $mWlkion   US $mitlion
Polio Eradication                                                                   0.00
Vaccine                                                 9.90        89.00        98.90
Social Mobilization                                     8.60         1.00         9.60
Strengthening Routine Immunization                        7.70        31.90        39.60
Strategic Framework Development for VPDs                  1.20         3.30         4.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      27.40       125.20        152.60
Physical Contingencies                                   0.90         2.00          2.90
Price Contingencies                                     -1.40         4.70          3.30
Total Project Costs             26.90       131.90        158.80
Total Financing Required             26.90        131.90       158.80
r-                                                     D -  -o   -Forgn          Total
Project Cost -y  se-ojy                US            US $mtion   US $milion
Polio Vaccines                                             10.10         90.90       101.00
Mobility Support                                            1.70          0.00         1.70
Consultants                                                0.90           1.20         2.10
Training                                                   2.50           0.00         2.50
Workshops                                                   1.60          0.00         1.60
IEC                                                        0.60           1.00         1.60
Honorarium for Volunteer Work                              4.20           0.00         4.20
Medical Equipment and Vaccine Vehicle                      5.10          32.10        37.20
Recurrent Costs                                            0.70           0.00         0.70
Unallocated                                               -0.50           6.70         6.20
Total Project Costs    26.90         131.90       158.80
Total Financing Required     26.90        131.90       158.80
-29 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
Economic and Financial Analysis Summary
Economic Justification and the Role of the Public Sector. Public finance economnics provides a
framework for analyzing the justification for public intervention. Typically, a role for the public sector is
justified if the goods and services in question exhibit characteristics of a public good or produce substantial
social externality. Additional justifications for public interventions include distributional aspects and
market failures resulting from limited insurance markets. Analysis of public sector justification not only
include identification of market failures, but should also reflect on the most effective form of public
intervention (policy, financing, provision, regulation, or advocacy).
Most of the interventions financed in this project, with three exceptions, are not public goods. Information
campaigns for pulse polio camnpaign days and the IEC elements of routine immunization are pure public
goods. This market failure is a critical element of the relatively low demand for these life saving medical
interventions. Benefits from the polio vaccine exhibit characteristics of a public good. When the vaccine
is admninistered orally to many children in a community, the virus multiplies in their intestines and is
released in much larger quantities in excreta. Such inactivated virus would compete in the open
environment with the circulating wild virus which is responsible for polio.
An argument for public involvement are societal externalities resulting from immunizing children. While
immunization is a private good, the benefit to society is larger than the sum of private benefits. Another
strong argument is that the poor suffer disproportionately from vaccine-preventable illnesses (Davidson
Gwatkin, 1999). Investing in eliminating Polio and strengthening routine immunization will, therefore,
produce more equitable health outcomes (more on equity below).
While there is clear justification for public intervention, the exact role for the public sector depends
primarily on market conditions and the effectiveness of different tools. The role of the state in developing
the policies governing immunization is central. Domestic and external partners (especially WHO and
UNICEF) can provide technical inputs and global experience. Infinancing, a global partnership has been
led by the Government of India where grant funds from external development partners have been used to
purchase vaccines and needed equipment to augment the GOI investments in labor and social mobilization.
The funds in this project will augrnent those grant funds provided by the other external partners (see table 4
below).
The GOI has also taken an important role in provision of both the Polio campaign as well as routine
imnmunization. While more than 70 percent of total health spending for curative care in India is used to
purchase private health services, the picture is different for the provision of immunization services. A
recent household survey (1998) shows the private sector to play a very small role in the provision of
immunization, especially in rural India. State-level data show private sector delivery of immunization
services ranging from a high of about 23 percent in AP, Kerala and Tamil Nadu to less than 5 percent in
Orissa, MP and West Bengal. Moreover, most private sector delivery is focused in the urban sector.
Market analysis provides some answers for the reluctance of private providers to provide immunization
services. Providers identified the cost of buying and maintaining cold storage equipment and the low
returns from limited demand as important factors in the decisions not to provide the service.
Cost-Effectiveness. The justification for the role of the public sector is a necessary but not sufficient
condition for public spending. It is also important to ensure that cost-effective interventions are available.
- 30 -



Using the most recent Burden of Disease data (1998), an assessment of immunization services found
routine immunization to be highly cost-effective. The cost per disability adjusted years was found to range
between 15 and 37 US dollars, and the cost per death averted between 514 and 1,233 US dollars. The
ranges reflected the assessment of cost-effectiveness under different program condition. Two variables -
Vaccine efficacy (75-90%) and program coverage (50-100%) - were used to build different scenarios for
costs per DALY gain and deaths averted (Tables I and 2).
Ta les I & 2: Cost per DALY Gained (US L) & per Death Averted Gained (US $)
Program          Vacc ine Effic v (DALYO        Vac ine Effica  (death averted)
Coverage       0.75    0.8    0.85    0.9    0.75      0.      0.85     0.9
0.5          37      34      32     30  1.233    1.156   1.088   1.027
0.6          30      29      27     25   1 A027     963     906       856
0.7          26      24      23     22     881      825     777       73
0.8          23      21      20     19    770       722     680       642
0.9          20       919    18     II7   685       642     6057
1            1 8    1Z7     16    15    616        578    544        514
Simulations were also used to identify the most effective ways of improving cost-effectiveness. Program
coverage had more impact on cost effectiveness than improving the vaccine efficacy from 75 to 90 percent.
Findings substantiate arguments for fast cold chain which emphasizes on reaching all children by taking
vaccines out of fixed cold chain and ensuring reasonable potency through use of Vaccine Vial Monitors.
Finally, simulations for increasing coverage by distance from immunization sites found aggregate coverage
gains to be much stronger for increasing coverage in the areas closest to the site.
Equity. Project design was influenced by analysis of the distributional impact of improved immunization
and the elimination of Polio. Data from three nationally representative household surveys were used to
identify some of the weaknesses in the system and provided inputs into policies to address them. Table 3
summarizes findings from the 1992/93 Demographic and Health Survey. The relationship between wealth
and immunization coverage holds when the data is stratified by rural and urban settings and by sex.
Table 3: Demographic and Health Survev 1992/93. Wealth and Imnmunization Cov raze
FIImmiuni ation  I Poorest 20%     Next 20%      Next 20%       Next 20%     Richest 20%
[ Measles             27.0          31.0          40.9           54.9          66.1
DPT 3                 33.7          41.1           51.8          64.6          76.7
Al vaccinations       20.2          25.1           34.1          46.9          59.8
No vaccinations       44.7          38.9           28.8          18.8           11.5
Econometric analysis using the rural component of the National Family Health Survey show a statistically
significant relationship between immunization and household income even when other socio-economic
factors are controlled. Moreover, immunization rates were related to female literacy, gender of the child,
cast affiliation, and the number of same sex older siblings (Rohini Pande, 1999). Analysis of the 1996
National Sample Survey show that the relation between household income continues to hold but with some
signs of improved equity. The story is similar when the 1998 Reproductive and Child Health household
survey (RCH) is analyzed. While the RCH survey does not have consumption or income variables, proxies
of wealth are used to analyze equity. The RCH survey, however, does more than identify coverage gaps by
region and socio-economic characteristics. The survey contains questions that shed some light on how the
system can be improved in order to address these disparities.
Families with un-immunized children are asked for the main reason for not seeking these life-saving health
- 31 -



interventions. While the answers varied across the different regions and states, two specific answers, with
strong policy implications, accounted for more than 62 percent. Thirty percent of the respondents were not
aware of the need for immunization and 32.6 percent were not aware of the time and place the
immunizations were to be provided. The RCH survey also provided valuable information on the modes of
service delivery most used by the poor and socially vulnerable. In the poorer states, the private sector plays
a very small role in delivering immunization services. Within the public sector, government hospitals are
the primary source in urban areas and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (through village sessions) are the primary
source for rural areas. The role of ANMs becomes especially critical for vulnerable groups when the data
is stratified by socio-economic characteristics.
Analysis of equity through household surveys, augmented by social assessments and the diagnosis of the
supply-side factors in service delivery, point to ways for improving the equity performance in
immunization. The approach can be described as clusters of improved targeting. First, attention, financial
and otherwise, will be paid to the performance of states, with weaker-performing states receiving more
inputs. Within states, district level data and performance will allow the public sector to further strengthen
weak systems by ensuring that critical inputs (staffing, cold chain equipment, etc.) are available. Finally,
learning from the successful efforts of Polio immunization campaigns, local level outreach and social
mobilization can be strengthened to address the demand for and knowledge about immunizations.
Financial Commitment and Fiscal Impact. The returns to eradication of polio in India can only be seen
in the context of the global effort since eradication can only take place when the polio virus disappears
from all countries of the world. The financial commnitment for eradicating Polio has therefore been a global
effort. Looking at the investments to date in India, we see a global consortium assisting India in achieving
this important objective. Table 4 summarizes the financial commitments from India's external partners.
Table 4: Financial commitments for External Partners
Year                       External Partner                 US $
1995-96                                  Rotary                                         500,000
1996-97 (CDC, Danida, Jica, Unicef, Dfid)  TOTAL 96/97                                34,950,000
1997-98 (Rotary, Danida, Jica, Unicef, Dfid)  TOTAL 97/98                             37,870,000
1998-99                                  UNICEF                                        2,500,000
DANIDA                                       5,800,000
JICA                                         2,800,000
DflD                                        20,740,000
KfW                                         14,000,000
TOTAL 98/99                                 51,870,000
Domestic inputs into Polio campaigns are estimated at US$30 million for expenditures relating to booth
management, transportation, anganwadi workers, school teachers and other NGO activities. An additional
US$26.5 million is estimated for indirect GOI inputs including staff and management. Given the limited
time nature of the Polio immunization campaigns and the global financial comrnmitment to it, this project will
not create any fiscal imbalance due to recurrent cost implications.
With respect to the Immunization Strengthening component, minimal fiscal impact is anticipated due to the
relative size of the investment and the recurrent cost implications. Table 5 provides a breakdown of GOI
expenditures on EPI (other than Polio Campaigns) for the last two fiscal years. Since EPI shares a number
of expenditure heads, such as salaries and maintenance, with other programs at the Ministry, the relative
shares spent on immnunization were estimated. Estimated project recurrent costs for the three year lifetime
- 32 -



total Rs. 428 million. Of that, IDA's share of the recurrent costs will total Rs. 336 million. This represents
less than one half of one percent of the estimated recurrent cost associated with Immunization for fiscal
year 1999/2000.
Table 5: Recurrent EP] Expenditures by GOI (in million of Rupees)
Expenditure Head                    1998/99                 1999/2000
Vaccines                                                 752                     978
Salaries                                                 603                     634
Maintenance (including Cold Chain)                       307                     308
SuDDlies and Consumables                                  60                      65
Transportation Costs                                      30                      60
IEC                                                       22                      25
Total                                                   1774                    2070
Given the variable performance by states, analysis of the state versus Union financial responsibility was
conducted to attempt to isolate performance factors. Most of the financial burden for immunizations in
India is federal with the states providing a few, though critical, inputs. The design of the immunization
strengthening component took into account state-center responsibility index and will target resources to
addressing the weak links in the system.
Sustainability. Polio Eradication is the largest component of the project. Within the Polio component, the
bulk of the resources are earmarked for the procurement of vaccines and the remaining are for social
mobilization and for the campaigns. Given the nature of the Polio Elimination approach, financial
sustainability is not an issue since the campaigns will end with elimination. In fact, the total earmark for
polio may not be all used. Project design took into account that the need for more campaigns in years 2 and
3 of the project will depend of the findings of the surveillance system. If, as expected, pockets of remaining
wild polio virus are localized, campaigns will be scaled back producing budgetary savings that can be
applied to strengthening routine inununizations. There is always a risk that complete elimination will not
take place requiring additional funds in the future. The strong surveillance system, however, and the
targeted mob-up strategy should minimize that risk.
The Immunization Strengthening component includes funds for training, monitoring and maintenance
designed to address weak elements of routine immunization. The strategy design component of the project
will attempt to address the sustainability issue by considering the development of equalization funds or
other budgetary mechanisms to better target resource allocation.
Absorptive Capacity. Absorptive capacity considerations for the Polio component were not found to be
substantial. The recent experience of Polio campaigns shows no serious signs of system fatigue and
provides proof of the ability of the system to manage the activities. A number of other development
partners are also supporting Polio eradication and have committed funds and are providing technical
assistance. They include CDC, DflD, EC, JICA, KFW, UNF, UNICEF, USAID, and WHO. The funds
allocated to the immunization strengthening component are small relative to the total cost of the system and
are targeted at historically under-funded inputs.
Financial Risks. In any eradication effort, the long-term economic retums are measured primarily through
saving from future expenditures on prevention and curative care. If, however, the elimination effort is not
successful then in addition to the need for even more resources to complete the effort, expected saving
overstate the return. In the case of Polio, this risk is minimized through a strengthened surveillance system
leading to targeted mob-up activities.
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
Years Ending
Year1    Year2  | Year3        Year4      Year5  | Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          51.5       52.5       54.2        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2       0.2        0.2        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         51.7       52.7       54.4        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             51.7       52.7       54.4        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  46.9      47.2       48.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                  4.8       5.5        5.9        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    51.7       52.7       54.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
i                                                     .                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Main assumptions:
- 34 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
Procurement
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken in the project will be the responsibility of the
implementing agency, Department of Family Welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
(MOHFW), Government of India and the States in accordance with the Bank Procurement Guidelines
and procedures. Procurement under the project will be through three mechanisms: (a) procurement of
oral polio vaccines (estimated to cost about US$101.40 million) would be by UNICEF; (b)
procurement of the more expensive non-vaccine items and services as well as a limited list of items that
need to be supplied to a large number of scattered health facilities across the country (estimated cost
about US$40.50 million) would be by M/s. Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation (India) Ltd.
(HSCC) who would be used as a procurement agent by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare; and (c)
State/Districts would procure all other items including hiring of local folk media groups and NGOs,
hiring of services, and hiring of vehicles etc. MOHFW, Government of India, New Delhi have
proposed not to utilize the project funds for the payment of consultancy fee to M/S HSCC. Should
MOBIFW at a later date determine that MIS HSCC is not perforning well and they wish instead to hire
another agent (with the Bank's consent), there would be no funds earmarked in the project for such
consultancy.
1. Civil Works: There are no civil works under this project.
2. Goods:
(a) Cold Chain and injection safety equipment: Procurement of equipment will be phased with the
bulk of equipment procurement to be done in Years 1 and 2. Large and expensive equipment would be
bulked together and purchased through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. This
would include items such as walk in freezers and coolers, ice-lined refrigerators, cold boxes, vaccine
carriers, voltage stabilizers, thernometers, etc. About 70% of the required injection safety equipment
such as stoves, cookers, autoclaves, drums, needles and syringes would be procured through HSCC.
Details of the scope and quantity of cold chain and injection safety equipment are provided in the PIP;
(b) Other equipment: Other items which include a limited number of computers, fax machines and
other office equipment required to upgrade financial management and monitoring facilities would be
procured following International Competitive.Bidding (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or
National Shopping Procedures (NSB), as the case may be by mechanism (b) and (c) described above;
(c) Vehicles: The only vehicles to be procured under this project would be vaccine transport vans
(about 200 vehicles). Procurement would be done by HSCC through ICB;
(d) MIS/IEC materials & Supplies: Materials would include inmmunization cards, registers, and IEC
materials. Items such as nationwide or regional IEC materials would be procured by HSCC, while
locally specific items such as local EEC materials would be procured at district level. Training
materials might be procured directly from printers/publishers for contracts estimated to cost
US$10,000 or less. Printing in different languages can be treated as separate contracts, possibly
requiring direct contracting in order to maintain quality;
- 35 -



(e) Polio Eradication Activities: Polio Eradication Activities include procurement of vaccines, training
of volunteers and community leaders who would mobilize communities or man the polio booths,
mobility support (vehicle hire etc.), honorarium for volunteers who make house-to-house visits, IEC
materials/services and consultant services. Procurement of Polio Oral Vaccines is a major activity
under the project. Total procurement cost of polio vaccine alone will be US$101.40 million
approximately. With the ultimate goal of global polio eradication within reach, the six firms worldwide
who presently hold WHO certification to produce the polio vaccine will shortly have no markets for
their product. At the same time, during these final years of the eradication program, there is a huge
demand for the vaccines to fuel the program needs and a corresponding need for centralized control
over the continued supply and efficient distribution of the vaccines. Accordingly, UNICEF, in
conjunction with WHO, has already secured agreements with each of the manufacturers involved to
purchase virtually their entire production capacity over the next two years for distribution to the
countries targeted in the eradication program. Consequently, there is, in effect, no source of finished
vaccine of assured quality for the participating countries other than through the UNICEF suppliers.
Therefore, in consideration of the unique circumstances presented in this situation, procurement of the
needed polio vaccines would be by direct contracting with UNICEF who would, in turn, provide the
vaccines through their existing supply agreements with the vaccine producers. Given the present world
market situation for polio vaccines, there really is no altemative to the arrangement being proposed for
procurement of polio vaccines, i.e., through UNICEF; and
(f Pharmaceuticals: Pharmaceuticals would include medical drugs from a standard drug list to be
supplied to a large number of sub-centers, primary health centers and small rural hospitals. Other
items would be considered for inclusion during Years 2 and 3, provided Polio Eradication activities
demonstrate good progress. Procurement of such items would be through ICB/NCB/ National
Shopping by HSCC and National Shopping by States/Districts, as the case may be.
3. Services:
(a) Professional services, training, workshops and studies include expenses related to: (i) training of
health staff; (ii) workshops for orientation and sensitization of workers from other public and private
sector organizations, elected Panchayat Raj members and local leaders and inter-sectoral coordination;
(iii) surveys, studies and evaluations; (iv) consultant services for the development, installment and
training in computerized management systems for financial management, program monitoring, vaccine
logistics and cold chain management; (v) contracts to NGOs and the private sector for providing
services to transport vaccines and supplies, or local JEC (such as street theaters, wall paintings, puppet
shows) and counseling and irmmunization services; and (vi) individual consultants appointed at
MOHFW and state level to strengthen programn management. Tenrs of reference irrespective of value
would be subject to prior review. Mostly contracts for individuals and NGOs are expected to be under
$50,000 each, selected on the basis of agreed terms of reference and procedures for selection would not
be subject to prior review except as provided in paragraph 3 - Services under Table B;
(b) Mass Media/IEC activities include contracts for the development, production, and implementation
and evaluation of mass media activities on a state-wide, multi-state or nationwide basis. For the
successful implementation of project objectives it is of utmost importance to bring awareness among
the public at large particularly regarding the day and place of imrnunization. Such publicity services
for the project shall be procured by the Borrower or project states under direct contracts with the
Borrower's Ministry of Informnation and Broadcasting, or with the relevant department or agency of the
State Government, or from local commercial supplier of such services, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association. For this purpose, standard Termns of Reference may be developed in
- 36 -



consultation with the Association;
(c) Social Mobilization includes small scale activities carried out over a large number of
administrative blocks including activities such as rallies, managing polio booths, house-to-house visits
by community volunteers, community information dissemination.
4. Miscellaneous:
This involves operational expenses for all the components and would include salaries of additional staff
including contractual staff, honorarium for community volunteers, maintenance of equipment and
mobility support (vehicle hire, petrol, travel allowance for service delivery and maintenance of
vehicles). Maintenance of equipment and vehicles and hire of vehicles would be procured on the basis
of direct contracting or three quotations, depending upon the situation.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
IDA financed works and goods will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines - Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999). IDA financed services will be procured using Bank Guidelines - Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (January 1997, Revised September 1997
and January 1999). For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bidding documents shall
be used. Attachment I to Annex 6 summarizes procedures for undertaking procurement on the
basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Specific Procurement arrangements summarized in
table 'A' are as follows:
* Contracts for the purchase of goods /equipment valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent each
would be procured through Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB).
* Contracts valued more than US$30,000 but less than US$300,000 may be awarded on the basis of
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Items or groups of items valued US$30,000 equivalent or
less per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures. Other items or
small groups of items such as supply of furniture, equipment, medicines, materials and other
supplies valued at less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct
contracting or national shopping procedures.
i   Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or less per contract for maintenance of
equipment/vehicles and hiring of vehicles may be awarded through:
- Direct Contracting; or
- National Shopping.
Prior Review Thresholds (See Table B)
* All contracts for goods/equipment except vehicles with an estimated value of more than
US$300,000 equivalent.
* All contracts of procurement for vehicles with an estimated value of more than US$100,000.
* The first NCB contract for goods/pharmaceuticals regardless of the value.
* Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000
or more for individuals.
- 37 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
US $ (IN MILION)
Civil Works                                                                        .           .
2. Goods
Cold Chain Equipment                                       11.52      3.48                              15.0
(10.31)    (2.59)                           (12.90)
Injection Safety and Other Equipment                       24.23      0.97                              25.2
(20.13)    (0.87)                           (21.00)
MIS/IEC Materials & Supplies                                 -                    1.40                  1.40
(1.40)                (1.40)
Vehicles                                                   2.10                    -                    2.10
(1.80)                                      (1.80)
Polio Eradication Activities                                                     107.5                 107.5
(98.51)               (98.51)
Other Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals                         0.80                                         0.80
(0.65)                                      (0.65)
3. Services
Consultants and NGO Contracts                                                     2.90                  2.90
(2.90)                (2.90)
Training, Workshops and Studies                                                   2.90                  2.90
(2.74)                (2.74)
4. Miscellaneous
Operational Expenditures                                                          0.50                 (0.50)
(0.40)                (0.40)
Mobility support                                             - .                  0.50                  0.50
(0.30)                (0.30)
Total                                                      38.65      4.45       115.70                158.80
(32.89)    (3.46)    (106.25)               (142.60)
Notes: Figures in Parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDAIBRD
"Other' method of procurement includes Direct Contracting, Comparison of Price Quotations (Shopping) and Consulting Services.
- 38 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                                                                                Total Cost
Services                                        Selection Method                                        (including
Expenditure                                                                                             contingencies)
Category
QCBS   QBS    SFB                    LCS    CQ    Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms            0.60                                                        4.40                      5.00
(0.60)                                                     (4.24)                     (4.84)
B. Individuals                                                                  0.80                      0.80
_______________  ________  ________  _________   ________  _______  -  (0.80)                (0.80)
Total               0.60                                                        5.20                      5.80
_  (0.60)                                                    (5.04)       _ _ _   (5.64)
Note:    QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS - Least Cost Selection
CQ   = Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
Other = Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultant's Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
NBF = Not Bank Financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure           Contract Value (Threshold)            Procurement method             Contracts Subject to PriorlPost Review
Category
Goods
(a) Cold Chain       US$ 30,000 or less per contract, up to an   National Shopping Procedures (includes Post review only
Equipment, Injection   aggregate amount not exceeding     DGS& D Rate Contracts)
Safety Equipment,    US$1,250,000 equivalent.                                               First goods & pharmaceuticals NCB contract
MIS/IEC materials &                                                                         estimated to cost more than US$ 30,000 but below
Supplies, other     More than US$ 30,000 but less than USS   National Competitive Bidding (NCB)   US$300,000 equivalent [by HSCC] and each
Vaccines and         300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate                               contract of goods estimated to cost more than
Pharmaceuticals.     amount not exceeding US$4,450,000                                      US$300,000 equivalent each by prior review in
equivalent.                                                            accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines
Above US$300,000 equivalent per      International Competitive Bidding  Prior review.
contract.                            (ICB)
Less than US$)10,000 per contract up to an Direct Contracting or National  Post review only.
aggregate amount not exceeding       Shopping.
US$150,000
(b) Vehicles.        Above US$ 100,000 equivalent per     International Competitive Bidding  All ICB contracts by prior review in accordance
contract.                            (ICB).                            with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines,
(c) Polio Eradication    Oral Polio Vaccines estimated to cost  Direct Contracting.         Polio Vaccines direct contract to UNICEF by prior
Activities.          US$101,400,000 Equivalent                                              review in accordance with paragraphs 2 & 3 of
approximately.                                                          Appendix I to the guidelines.
US$30,000 or less per contract, up to an   Direct contracting or National Shopping Post review only.
aggregate amount not exceeding       Procedures.
US$6,100,000 equivalent.
- 39 -



Expenditure            Contract Value (Threshold)               Procurement method               Contracts Subject to Prior/Post Review
Category
Services
(a) Consultants,      Above US$200,000 equivalent per        Quality and Cost Based Selection     Prior review of all consultant contract shall be
Training, Workshops,  contract.                              (QCBS)                               govemed by the provisions of paragraphs (i), (ii)
Studies and                                                                                       and (iii) below
NGO contracts
(b) Consultants,      US$200,000 or less per contract, up to an   QCBS with Short List (could comprise  (i) With respect to each contract for the
Training, Workshops,  aggregate amount not exceeding         entirely of national Consultants only    employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
Studies and           US$ 1,100,000 equivalent                                                   the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, procedures
NGO contracts                                                                                     set forth in paragraphs 1,2 [other than the third
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 (a)] and 5 or
(c) Consultants,      US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract (i) QCBS with Short List (could  Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall
Training, Workshops,  up to an aggregate amount not exceeding   comprise entirely of national consultants apply
Studies and           US$7,000,000 equivalent                only).
NGO contracts.
(ii) Selection in accordance with para   (ii) With respect to each contract for consulting
3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines;  firms estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$ 100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent
of US$200,000 the procedure set forth in
paragraph 1,2 [other than the second
sub-paragraph of the paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultants Guidelines shall
apply.
(iii) Single Source - Selection as per    (iii) With respect to each contract for the
para 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant  employment of individual consultants estimated to
Guidelines: acceptable for tasks    cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the
representing a natural continuation of   qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
assignment, when rapid selection    terms of employment of the consultants shall be
essential, for very small assignments    furnished to the Association for its prior review and
approval. The contracts shall be awarded only
after the said approval shall have been given.
All other cases: Post Review
(iv) Selection of Individual Consultants
in accordance with para 5.1 to 5.3 of
Consultant Guidelines
v) Selection in accordance with para    Job description, minimum qualifications, terms of
3.19 of Consultant Guidelines,      employment and selection procedures shall be
agreed with IDA.
3. Miscellaneous
Incremental           Incremental operating costs and mobility
Operational Costs and  support (vehicle hire, maintenance of
mobility support      equipment and vehicles) estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 10,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate not exceeding
US$500,000 may be executed by
(i) direct contracting up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$300,000 or                Direct contracting                   Post review only
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three
qualified supplies eligible under the  Solicitation of three bids           Post review only
guidelines
- 40 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
1. Polio eradication activities      94.80                   90%
Includes:
Polio vaccine
Social mobilization (training,
honorarium, IEC materials and
services, mobilitv support)
2. Goods                             32.46                   90%
Includes:
Other vaccines and
pharmaceuticals & equipment
IEC, MIS & training materials
Vehicles
3. Training and services             5.64                    100%
Includes:
Training and workshops
Consultant and NGO services
Studies and evaluations
4. Incremental, operating and         0.70             80% of expenditures
maintenance                                          through August 31, 2001
70% of expenditures from
Includes:                                             September 1, 2001 to
Salaries                                            August 31, 2002, and 50%
Mobility support other than                          of expenditures thereafter
polio eradication
Equipment maintenance
5. Unallocated                        9.00
Total                                142.60
-41 -



Disbursement
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C.
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI). The authorized allocation of the
Special Account would be US$4 million that represent about 6 months of initial estimated disbursements
from the IDA Credit. The Special Account would be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational
policies.
The disbursement will initially be made in the traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation
and against statement of expenditure) and will be converted to a Project Management Report (PMR) based
disbursement after the financial management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily.
In the interim period, however, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) will be required to
submit a report on sources and uses of funds by disbursement category, procurement reports on contracts
over US$100,000 (Reports lA, 3A and 3B of the LACI handbook). Besides these, four basic financial
monitoring reports will be submitted to IDA on a quarterly basis. The form and contents of these reports
have been agreed between IDA and MOHFW.
Financial Management
Current Financial Management System
The project is an initiative in the ongoing family welfare lending program to the Government of India. The
implementing agency for the Project is the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), which is
currently executing three other projects in the family welfare portfolio, viz., India Population Project VIII
(IPP VIII), India Population Project IX (IPP IX) and Reproductive and Child Health Project (RCH). the
MOHFW will be supported in the execution of the project by the participating state societies (SCOVAs).
The MOHFW which runs the family welfare program in India has the following strengths: (i) a budgeting
and accounting system has been established and is operational; and (ii) the executing agencies in the states,
viz., SCOVAs are in existence and are engaged in the execution of the Bank assisted RCH project.
However, MOHFW follows the government accounting system, the mnain focus of which is on
book-keeping and transactional control over expenditures. There is no concept of financial management
information being used for decision making and hence there is very limited focus on meeting project
management information needs. Project financial statements indicating sources and uses of funds
(including information on project expenditure by components, types of expenditure, etc.) are not prepared.
The financial system is largely operated manually.
Specific areas to be strengthened
The following aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
commensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
(a) satisfactory staffing and training: The Finance functions should be staffed by suitably qualified
accounts professionals both at MOHFW and SCOVAs. The finance departmnent at MOHFW should be
headed by a full time qualified accounts professional who can actively aid in setting up the financial
management system in the project. The SCOVAs also need to be suitably strengthened with accounting
- 42 -



professionals. The entire financial staff need to be trained in the operation of the computerized FMS.
Project managers and financial staff need to be sensitized on the importance of financial management for
effective project management;
(b) the need to analyze financial information and use it as a decision making tool. Financial reports which
provide timely and quality information on the financial performnance of the project should be prepared. The
accounting system should ensure classification and compilation/analysis of accounting data in such a
manner as to provide useful and timely information for project monitoring;
(c) transparency of project operations and establishment of clear financial policies and procedures: all
stakeholders need to be provided with clear, simple, user-friendly and consistent financial infornation
about the project's performance and financial status;
(d) ensuring satisfactory audit arrangements: including timely submission of audit report and certification
of project financial statements adopting acceptable auditing standards. This has been a major problem and
has resulted in SOE suspensions in other projects implemented by MOHFW. In fact, four states in the
RCH project are currently under SOE suspension for non submission of audit certificates for the year
1997-98 and only 20 out of 35 audit reports due have been received for the year 1998-99;
(e) ensuring linking of physical progress with the financial progress;
(f) the need to have a simple and effective monitoring mechanism to ensure effective monitoring of a large
number of widely dispersed entities. Currently, the financial monitoring at MOHFW is very weak;
(g) use of computers in the area of financial management. Currently a largely manual system operates
which is antiquated and tedious; and
(h) the need for developing a regular financial reporting from districts to SCOVAs and from SCOVAs to
MOHFW. Currently, the financial reporting from SCOVAs to MOHFW is irregular and erratic.
The Ministry of Health and Family welfare (MOHFW) will develop and imnplement a comprehensive
computerized financial management system which will address these issues.
Proposed Financial Management System
The proposed project financial management system will be documented in a Financial Management
Manual. The Financial Management Manual would also serve as a reference document for all project
staff. The Financial Management Manual would be periodically updated based on implementation
experience. The Manual includes the following aspects of financial management:
*   budgeting and flow of funds.
* accounting system (including chart of accounts, formats of books, accounting and financial
procedures).
*   financial reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts).
* staffing and training aspects including job responsibilities.
*   auditing arrangements including Terms of Reference.
*   procurement and contract administration monitoring system.
* financial and accounting policies.
The computerized financial management system will initially be adopted only for the project. The next step
-43 -



will be to extend it to the entire RCH program of MOHFW.
Budgeting and Flow of Funds
The funding to MOHFW would be through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
Flow of funds from MOHFW to SCOVAs will be on a quarterly basis through banking channels. The
initial allocation will be based on the cash flow forecasts of SCOVAs' (which in turn would be based on
their work programs and budgets). Subsequent funding will be based on performance of key indicators and
the projected funds requirement of the SCOVAs.
The flow of funds from SCOVAs to districts and from districts to Community Health Centres
(CHCs)/Primary Health Centres (PHCs) will also be through banking channels.
Flow of funds to UNICEF for purchase of vaccines
The purchase of vaccines which constitutes a major part of the project is to be handled through UNICEF.
On a request from GOI, the Bank would make a direct payment to UNICEF for a part of the total cost. On
supply of vaccines, MOHFW will submit a statement reconciling the payment made for vaccine with the
quantities supplied by UNICEF. There are certain unresolved issues like the quantum of handling charges,
the amount of money that is paid in advance, audit of the UNICEF contract etc., which are currently being
looked into by a joint UNICEF - World Bank team. It is important that these issues are resolved before the
supply of vaccines begins under this project.
Accounting and Internal Controls
The overall framework of the system is given below:
 The financial management system would cover all project-related transactions, i.e., all sources of funds
would be accounted for and reflected in the project financial statements; and similarly all project
expenditures would be reflected in the project financial statements.
* A Chart of Accounts will be developed. The Chart of Accounts will enable the expenditure data to be
captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The Chart of Accounts will
have linkages to: (i) government budget heads/categories; and (ii) disbursement categories. Similarly,
the Chart of Accounts enables data on sources of funds to be captured.
* The fmnancial management system is being computerized. The computerized system will be installed
and operated at the MOHFW, the SCOVAs and all the participating districts. Accounts of the
MOHFW, SCOVAs and all the districts will be consolidated for project fmancial reports. However the
operations at the PHC/CHC level will continue to be on a manual basis and their data will be captured
in the computerized system at the district level.
* Standard books/records of accounts (cash and bank-books, journals, ledgers, trial balance, etc.) would
be maintained at the MOHFW, SCOVAs and the districts using a manual system until an integrated
computerized accounting system becomes operational.
Transaction Information Flow and Accounting
All the accounting entities, viz., MOHFW, SCOVAs, Districts and CHCs/PHCs will generate and maintain
the transaction vouchers for various receipts and expenditures made at the level where the expenditure is
incurred. However, a monitoring system will be established at the MOHFW level to monitor the usage of
- 44 -



funds by SCOVAs and at the SCOVAs to monitor the usage of funds at districts.
Consolidation of project accounts would be done first at the SCOVA level by consolidation of data of all
the districts and the SCOVA and then at MOHFW level by consolidation of accounts of MOHFW and the
SCOVAs. The computerized financial management system will facilitate the consolidation. Data transfer
would be handled through: (i) an integrated computer network; or (ii) a periodic data transfer through
Electronic Mail or floppy diskettes.
Internal Controls
Intemal control mechanisms would include the following:
* establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets and monitoring of physical and financial progress. Physical data
on key items would be captured in the accounting system to enable monitoring of physical data.
* development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govem financial management of and accounting for the project.
*   at the transaction level, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard intemal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
*   establishmnent and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism.
Financial Reporting
Quarterly Financial Management Reports would include:
* comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on aspects
such as sources of funds (indicating separately funds from beneficiaries) and application of funds
(classified by components, sub-components, summarized expenditure categories, etc.).
* comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items.
* forecasts for the next 2 quarters.
* information on procurement management for major contracts.
Project Financial Statements and Financial Management Reports would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. MOHFW would generate quarterly financial management
reports from the integrated computerized financial management system for the whole project. The
SCOVAs will also have the capability of generating these reports for their own monitoring needs. These
reports and the Withdrawal Application (which would be based on the financial forecasts and actual
expenditures classified by disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly
disbursements in accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI.
Staffing
The finance and accounting department at MOHFW would be headed by a Financial Controller, who will
be an accounting professional with about 8/10 years experience in a similar position. His team will include
two Accounts officers and a Systems Analyst. They will be supported by an adequate sized team of
accountants.
The Finance and Accounting Department at SCOVAs will be headed by a Finance Officer who will be an
accounting professional with 5/6 years experience in a similar position. He will also be assisted by a team
- 45 -



of accountants which will depend on the size of operations in the state.
At the districts, one accountant will be identified for working exclusively on the project. The districts will
also be supported by data processing firms at the district level for trouble shooting and timely generation of
PMRs.
At the CHC/PHC level, the simple accounting tasks required will be undertaken by the existing
accountants/accounts clerks who are currently performing these duties.
To promote efficiency and maintain a lean organization, all routine activities relating to generation of books
of accounts, compilation, preparation of financial reports, etc., would be handled through the computerized
financial management system to the maximum extent possible.
An intensive training program will be developed to ensure that the staff at all levels are adequately trained
in the computerized financial management system.
Auditing Arrangements
MOHFW Accounts will be audited by the Controller and Auditor General of India (C & AG). The
SCOVAs will be audited by Chartered Accountant firms. A consolidated annual project financial
statement will be submitted by MOHFW within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year (as required
under the Bank's Operational Policies) supported by audit reports of MOHFW and SCOVAs.
The Terms of Reference for the firms of Chartered Accountants would include audit of the districts, CHCs
and PHCs. The target date for finalization of the TOR and the target date for appointment of auditors will
be agreed during negotiations. The auditors would carry out such tests and controls as deemed necessary
by them. This may include visits to the districts, PHCs and CHCs to verify the bank accounts, carry out
physical inspection, etc. In accordance with the World Bank's Operational Policies, the Terms of
Reference and qualifications of the firm of Chartered Accountants should be reviewed by the World Bank.
The firms of Chartered Accountants would be appointed before the start of the project.
Under the RCH project there have been lapses in timely submission of audit reports to the Bank which has
caused suspension of SOE disbursements for MOHFW and some states. The creation of SCOVAs in the
states as implementing agencies should alleviate the problem to an extent as the SCOVA accounts will be
audited by Chartered Accountancy firms which should facilitate timely submission of audit reports from
SCOVAs. However, timely submission audit reports from MOHFW to IDA remains an issue which will
need to be addressed.
The audit report on special account maintained by DEA would include a summnary of SA transactions and
the closing balance held by RBI. The audit report on SA would also be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
The following audit reports will be monitored under ARCS:
Agency                               Form of Audit
MOHFW                                Project/SOE audit
DEA                                   Special Account
The audit reports of all the SCOVAs will also be monitored.
-46 -



Time Table for implementation of Project Financial Management System and next steps
The proposed computerized Project Financial Management System (PFMS) will be developed with the help
of consultants to be specifically appointed for the purpose of designing, developing and instituting the
computerized PFMS in the project. The form and contents of PMRs that will need to be generated by the
computerized PFMS have been agreed between MOHFW and IDA.
The following key activities will need to be completed to successfully implement the computerized financial
management system in the project
Activity                                           Target Date
*   Appointment of a Financial Management Consultant at MOHFW  April 30, 2000
*   Procurement of computers                                   October 31, 2000
*   Development of the software and testing                    November 30, 2000
*   Appointment of Director of Finance at MOHFW                December 31, 2000
*   Training of the personnel on the software                  February 28, 2001
*   Implementation of the computerized financial management system    April 1, 2001
- 47 -



Attachment I
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) referred to in Part C of Section I, Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, all NCB
contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). In this regard, all NCB
contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall follow the following procedures:
[1]    Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task
Force [and as amended from time to time], shall be used for bidding.
[2]   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
[3]    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State.
[4]    Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of
price with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
[5]    Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of Ministry of Health &
Family Welfare, Government of India and Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation
(India) Ltd., extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of
the Bank/Association [ i ] for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks;
and [ ii ] for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
[6]    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association.
The system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall
not be used.
[7]    Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB procedures.
Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping procedures.
- 48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       15                            11
First Bank mission (identification)              08/05/99                      08/21/99
Appraisal mission departure                      12/01/99                      01/10/2000
Negotiations                                     03/01/2000                    03/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/2000
Prepared by:
Government of India, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Governments of Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
Preparation assistance:
WHO: N. Ward (Consultant), J. Andrus (Regional Advisor), R. Tangermann (Medical Officer), J. Milstien
(Medical Officer), B. Aylward (Medical Officer), Bjorn Melgaard (Director HTP) and J. Fitzsimmons
(Administrative Officer).
UNICEF: A.L. Bhuyan (Project Officer); State hmmunization Officers in Assamn, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh,
Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh; Evaluation surveys of routine immunization and studies of non
acceptors of polio immunization with support from Christian Children's Fund.
DFID Social assessment, including studies by INCLEN supported by USAID.
Bank consultants: J. Satia, P. Subramaniam.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Tawhid Nawaz                      Team Leader
Indra Pathmanathan                Task Leader
Anthony Measham                   Advisor
Abdo S.Yazbeck                    Economist
G.N.V. Ramana                     Public Health Specialist
Sadia Chowdhury                   Senior Public Health Specialist
Mam Chand                          Senior Procurement Specialist
Rashmi Sharma                      Social Development Specialist
Sara Gonzalez Flavell              Senior Counsel
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist
Amie Batson                       Health Specialist
Alan Hinman                        Senior Consultant on Imununization
Laura Kiang                       Operations Analyst
Jose P. Correia Da Silva           Senior Counsel
Elfreda Vincent                   Program Assistant
Agnelo Gomes                      Team Assistant
Christopher Niesterowicz          Information Assistant
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Implementation Plan, Department of Family Welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
Government of India, October 1999..
2. Concept Paper: Project Proposal for Immunization Strengthening, Dept., of Family Welfare, Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare, Government of India, October 1999.
3. National Tribal Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) Plan, Ministry of Health and Welfare, Government of
India, May 1998.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
India: Routine Immunization Program and Polio Eradiction. December, 1999. Program Description and
summary of Performance Evaluation.
Ward, N.A., October 1999. Analysis of the Expanded Programme on Immunization in India.
Satia, Jay, November 25, 1999. Institutional Assessment.
Batson, Arnie, 1999. Review of Vaccine Procurement at the National Level.
Tangermann, Rudi, 1999. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Immunization Programme in India. Technical
Assessment, World Bank Immunization Project for India.
WHO, 1999. Prospective Plan for the National Polio Surveillance Project 2000-05.
Sharma, Rashmi, 1999. Social Data Sheet.
Pathmanathan, Indra, 1999. India: Immunization present and future - developing a Strategic Approach.
Pathmanathan, Indra, 1999. India: State Consultation on Strengthening Routing Immunization, Report on
Consultation.
Yazbeck, Abdo, 1999. Economic and Financial Analysis. Expanded Summary.
C. Other
AIIMS-IndiaClen, 1997-98. Pulse Polio Immunization Program Evaluation. India.
BIMAA, 1999. Bihar Immunization Acceleration Activity.
GOI, 1996-1997, 97-98, 98-99. Evaluation of Pulse Polio Immunization.
UNICEF, 1998-99. Evaluation of Pulse Polio Immunization, Routine Immunization and Maternal Care,
Preliminary Report.
IIPS, 1998-1999. Household Surveys, Reproductive and Child Health Program.
IIPS, 1992-93. National Family Health Survey
UNICEF, 1998. Action Research on PPI Non-Acceptors.
UNICEF, 1999. India: Immunization Strengthening - Cold Chain.
WHO, Report of Procurement of India-finished OPV, by Dr. Julie Milstein.
WHO, Vaccine and other Biologicals Regional Overview, Draft, 1998.
WHO, 1999. Surnmary of the Fifth Interagency Coordinating Conmnittee, Meeting for Polio Eradication and EPI,
India.
WHO, Sixth Meeting of SEARO/EPI Technical Consultative Group (TCG) on Vaccine Preventable Disease,
Dhaka, Bangladesh.
WHO, 1999. Documents for the Special Meeting of the SEAR/EPI Technical Consultative Group (TCG) on
Vaccine Preventable Diseases, Lucknow, India.
WHO, India Country Report, Cold Chain, October, 1998.
WHO, Strategies for Control of Measles in SEARO Countries (Report of an Inter-Agency Consultation).
WHO, Papers on National Consultation on Measles Elimination Strategy.
*including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD        IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P045051        1999 India                       2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                      0.00      189.36        0.00      184.47      2.82      0.00
P049301        1997 India                       A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                      50.00       97.15        0.00      100.98     66.97      0.00
P010407        1993 India                       ADP - RAJASTHAN                           0.00       98.50        0.00       19.86     22.81      0.00
P010503        1995 India                       AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                      0.00       54.46        0.00       27.50     26.18      0.00
P010449        1994 India                       ANDHRAPRADESH FORESTRY                    0.00       74.92        0.00       14.27     12.42      0.00
P010489        1995 India                       AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                      0.00      122.22        0.00       53.26     18.64      0.00
P049385        1998 India                       AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                    301.30      240.91        0.00      425.65     35.64      0.00
P035158        1997 India                       AP IRRIGATION IlIl                      175.00      145.36        0.00      245.58     57.70      0.00
P049537        1999 India                       AP POWER APLI                           210.00        0.00        0.00      172.86     26.53      0.00
P010522        1995 India                       ASSAM RURAL INFRA                         0.00      108.92        0.00       91.66     49.20      0.00
P010480        1996 India                        BSEWAGEOISPOSAL                        167.00       21.38        0.00      110.41    100.89      0.00
P010408        1993 India                       BIHAR PLATEAU                             0.00      108.74        0.00       33.71     40.22      0.00
P010455        1994 India                       BLINDNESS CONTROL                         0.00      114.70        0.00       79.55     49.51      0.00
P009979        1998 India                       COAL SECTOR REHAB                       530.00        2.02       15.00      333.73     73.45     73.45
P009870        1994 India                       CONTAINER TRANSPORT                      94.00        0.00        0.00       63.71     63.71     26.24
P035821        1996 India                       DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                      0.00      392.24        0.00      254.53     12.09      0.00
P010464        1995 India                       DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                       0.00      242.04        0.00      112.98     56.48      0.00
P038021        1998 India                       DPEP III (BIHAR)                          0.00      150.33        0.00      132.65     44.11      0.00
P036062        1997 India                       ECODEVELOPMENT                            0.00       26.22        0.00       21.05      7.65      0.00
P043728        1997 India                       ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                      0.00       46.66        0.00       42.05     18.94      0.00
P010563        1995 India                       FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV PROJ. (FSDP)       700.00        0.00      301.30      151.33      0.00      0.00
P010448        1994 India                       FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                      0.00       45.55        0.00       17.44     35.81      9.76
P035160        1998 India                       HARYANA POWER APL-I                      60.00        0.00        0.00       28.06     13.40      0.00
P010485        1996 India                       HYDROLOGY PROJECT                         0.00      121.15        0.00       86.01     66.31      0.00
P009977        1993 India                       ICDSII (BIHAR&MP)                         0.00      190.81        0.00      112.08    113.08    107.09
P039935        1996 India                       ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                     200.00        4.57        0.00      178.87    134.11      0.00
P043310        1996 India                       INDIA-Coal Env. & Social Mitigation       0.00       58.22        0.00       44.91     27.78      0.00
P044449        1997 India                       INDIA-RURAL WOMEN'S                       0.00       18.15        0.00       16.51      9.46      0.00
P010463        1995 India                        DEVELOPMENT                            143.00       23.80        1.64      142.99    112.68    110.96
P010418        1993 India                       INDUS POLLUTION PREV                      0.00       89.15        0.00       14.33     14.91      0.00
P049477        1998 India                       KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                      0.00       38.73        0.00       32.54      0.54      0.00
P010461        1995 India                       KERALA FORESTRY                         275.80        0.00      189.30       46.37    201.05      8.61
P050651        1999 India           -           MADRAS WATER SUP II                       0.00      131.64        0.00      128.49    130.89      0.00
P010390        1992 India                       MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                       0.00      119.79       16.77       26.09     41.97     25.29
P010511        1997 India                       MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                      0.00      160.28        0.00      148.83     54.14      0.00
P009946        1992 India                       MALARIA CONTROL                         153.00      156.58        0.00      120.26     95.96     27.60
P009869        1989 India                       NAT. HIGHWAYS II                        485.00        0.00        0.00       91.05     91.05      -6.16
P010561        1998 India                        NATHPAJHAKRI HYDRO                      96.80       99.24        0.00      188.69     39.23      0.00
P010424        1993 India                       NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                         0.00       80.68        8.70       20.74     30.73      15.36
P009982        1990 India                        NATL LEPROSY EUMINA                    485.00        0.00       35.00      125.32    160.32      0.00
P010496        1998 India                       NOR REG TRANSM                            0.00       76.38        0.00       72.77     10.14      0.00
P035170        1996 India                       ORISSA HEALTH SYS                       350.00        0.00        0.00      309.00    151.50      0.00
P010529        1996 India                       ORISSA POWER SECTOR                       0.00      261.24        0.00      137.20     18.33      0.00
P010416        1993 India                       ORISSAWRCP                              350.00        0.00       75.00       37.46    110.13      0.00
PGC POWER SYSTEM
- 51 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P010457        1994 India                         POPULATION IX                           0.00       84.31        0.00       47.01     27.22       0.00
P009963        1992 India                         POPULATION Vil                         0.00       77.59        0.00       50.21     50.90       0.00
P045050        1999 India                         RAJASTHAN DPEP                          0.00       84.71        0.00       81.78      2.44       0.00
P010410        1993 India                         RENEWABLE RESOURCES                    75.00      109.73        0.00       66.00     95.48       0.00
P010531        1997 India                         REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                    0.00      241.37        0.00      203.16     73.93      12.87
P009959        1993 India                         RUBBER                                  0.00       89.47       36.81       16.51     53.37      -2.81
P009921        1992 India                         SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                    0.00       84.76       50.02       15.78     63.65      15.04
P035825        1996 India                         STATE HEALTH SYS II                     0.00      317.34        0.00      230.87    140.51       0.00
P009995        1997 India                         STATE HIGHWAYS l(AP)                  350.00        0.00        0.00      299.64     56.31       0.00
P045600        1997 India                         TA s5s RD INFRA DEV                    51.50        0.00        0.00       26.68     16.85      17.18
P010476        1995 India                         TAMIL NADU WRCP                         0.00      244.60        0.00      168.32    106.13       0.00
P050637        1999 India                         TN URBAN DEV II                        105.00       0.00        0.00       96.95     10.15       0.00
P010473        1997 India                         TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                     0.00     132.32        0.00      127.49     70.44       0.00
P035169        1998 India                         U.P. FORESTRY                            0.00      52.44        0.00       43.07      9.27       0.00
P050638        1998 India                         UP BASIC ED II                           0.00      58.89        0.00       23.26      6.02       0.00
P035824        1998 India                         UP DIVAGRC SUPPORT                      79.90      50.13        0.00      123.55     34.83       0.00
P050667        2000 India                         UP DPEP III                              0.00     177.90        0.00      177.90      0.00       0.00
P010484        1996 India                         UP RURAL WATER                         59.60        0.00        0.00       47.67     18.84       0.00
P050646        1999 India                         UP SODIC LANDS II                        0.00     190.54        0.00      185.52     17.33       0.00
P009961        1993 India                         UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                     0.00      53.23        0.00       10.62      8.66       0.00
P009955        1993 India                         UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                      0.00     156.44        0.00       14.68     -0.70       0.00
P009964        1994 India                         WATER RES CONSOLID H                     0.00     252.39        0.00      121.81     83.18       0.00
P035827        1998 India                         WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                     0.00     299.19        0.00      289.47     -2.32       0.00
P041264        1999 India                         WTRSHD MGMT HILLS 11                    85.00      49.72        0.00      131.18      4.28       0.00
Total:    5631.90     6719.16      729.34     7396.93   3396.25    440.68
- 52 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                IAAF                           0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1964/75/79/90     MUSCO                          0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                         40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981              Nagarjuna Steel                0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode                 0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92  TISCO                          1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00    1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                           0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67    0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67
1984/90/94        India Lease                    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                 12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00   12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear               0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN                       0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92193/94      GESCO                         0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment               0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80
1987               Hindustan                     2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches                 0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00
1988/90/92        Tata Telecom                   0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                     0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00
1989               AEC                           9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                          0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State                 2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India                     0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00
1990               HOEL                          0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II               0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60   39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60
1990/93/94/98     IL & FS                       16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00   16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL                    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00
1991/93            Triveni                       0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                         0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co                0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992              IndusVCF                       0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund                 0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings                  1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries              30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00   30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00
1992/95            IL&FS Venture                 0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00
1992/96/97        NICCO-UCO                      6.13    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.50    0.00
1993/94/96        IndoRama                      18.75    0.00   11.98    7.50   18.75    0.00   11.98    7.50
1993/97            20TH Century                 11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44   11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44
1994               Centurion Growth              0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994               Chowgule                     12.63    0.00    4.58    19.38   12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt              0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63
1994               Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00
- 53 -



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Taurus Starshare              0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97            GVK                          26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19   26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19
1994/98            Global Trust                  5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank                0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                     15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                    8.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995               Prism Cement                 14.06    0.00    5.02    10.50   14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50
1995               Rain Calcining               19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00   19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00
1995               Sara Fund                     0.00    0.00    6.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98            RPG Communicatns              0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00
1996              India Direct Fnd               0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.52    0.00
1996              Indus II                       0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer                   20.05    0.00   10.14    0.00    2.30    0.00   10.14    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00 .  0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1997               CEAT                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997               Owens Corning                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                          0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997               SREI                         15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India              0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997               WIV                           0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.63    0.00
1998              IDFC                           0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      427.09    6.81  238.54  138.71  394.34    6.81   219.76  138.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:
- 54 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Immunization Strengthening Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South      Low-
India      Asia  income        Development diamond'
1 998
Population, mid year (nirl/ons)                        979.7      1,305     3,515                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At'os methoc, US$S                      430        430        520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       421.3       555      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-08
Population %)                                            1-7 i      18        17
Labor foroc (%)                                          2.0        2 3       1.9      GNP           f                    Gross
Most recent ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                  capita                         enrollment
Povorty (lv of population below national poverty line)    35
Urban population (% of total populafiorn)                 27        27         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          63        62         63
infant mortality (per ,000 live births)                   63        77         69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5,,                         53         .,                Access to safe water
Acce"ss o safe water (% of poo/lation)                    81         61        74
Illiteracy`(% of population ago /5+)                      43        49         32
Gross primary enroilment (% of tichool-age population)   101       100        105           India         Low-income group
Male                                                   110       109        113
Femnale                                                90         90        103     .
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ olli/ons)                            137.3    29S 7      420.8     430.2
Gross domestic nvestment;GDP                   21.7     23.8       23 4      23.6
Exports of goods and sorvices/GDP               6.1      6.2       10.7      11.0                      Trade
Gross domestc savings;GDP                      20.6     20.9       20.0      21.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     21.5     20.8       21.9      22.6                         {
Current acCount batancelGDP                    -0.1     -2.4       -1.3      -1.0      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                           0.3      0.7        0.8       1.1                      .o            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 12.0     20.5       22.4      22.8       avings
Total debt scrvicelexports                     13 0     28,5       18.5      17.0
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..        ,       18.1         .
Present value of debtlexports                    ..        .      130 3
Indebtedness
1978-88  1988-98     1997       1998   1998-02
(avorageo annua/ growth)
GDP                                   5.0       5.7      5,0        G.1       6.2          -     iin                  g
GNP per capita                        2.6       3.9      3.3        4.2       4.4              ndia        Low-icome group
Exports of goods anc norvices         4.2      11.9      6.2        4.4       6.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997      1998      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             30
Agriculture                                    37.9     32.1       27.5      29.3
Industry                                       23.7     26.3       26.1      24.7      20
Manufacturing                                16.3     16.2       16.8       16.0     10-
Services                                       38.4     41.6       46.4      45.9       o         _        9    9     9     9
Private consumption                            70.1     67.3       68.9      68.4      10      9    94   95   56   97   98
General government consumption                  9.2     11.8       11.1      10.5                     GD      -     DP
Imports of goods and services                   7.2      9.1       14.1      13.6
(average annxa/ growth)                    1978-88  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                     2.8      3.4       -1.0       7.6    40
Industry                                        5.9      6.4        5.9       4.0    30
Manufacturing                                 6.1       7.2       6.8        5.2     2/0
Services                                        6.0      7.3        8.2       6.3    2x
Private consumption                             5.1      5.0        2.6       6.2
General government consumption                  7.7      7.6       19.4       4.4
Gross domestic investment                       4.8      6.4        7.7       7.6             93   94    95   9S   97   98
Imports of goods and services                   7.3      9.7       11.7       5.6                   Eports    Imwports
Gross national product                          4.9      5.7        5.0       6.2
Note: 1998 denotes Indian fiscal year 1998-99, which runs from April 1 to March 31; data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 55 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988       1997      1998-    Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  ..      9.3        7.0      13.1
Implicit GDP deflator                           2.5      8.1        5.6       8.9
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                  ..    23.2        21.5      21.6             93    94    95    93    97    98
Current budget balance                            ..     0.9       -0.1       0.0             -G DP deflator   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -9.8       -8.5      -9.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1978      1988      1997      1998       Export and import levels (USS mill-)
Total exports (fob)                              ,.  13,970      35,013    34,298     so,oo
Tea                                             ..     421        505       481      4,0
I ron                                          ..      465        476       349      403T
Manufactures                                    .   10,727     27,348    27,534      30.000 T
Total imports (cif)                                   19,497     41,484    47,544     20,000
Food                                           ..     1,203     1,845     2,543
Fuet and energy                                ..    3,009      8,217     6,435      1,0
Capital goods                                  ..    4,803      9.796     9,281         0 5    4
92   53  94  95  50  97  95
Export price index (1995=100)                            111        100        96
Import price index (1995=100)                             88         94       90                   uEspourts     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                125        106       106
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1978     1988       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 8,380   18,213     45,109    47,484
Imports of goods and services                 9.900   26,843     59.297    58,565
Resourcebalance                              -1,520   -8,630    -14,188   -11,081
Net income                                     223   -1,056      -3,166    -3,544
Net current transfers                         1,150    2.654     11,830    10,280 
Current account balance                        -147   -7,032     -5,524    -4,345
Financing items (net)                           147    5,600      9,120     8,050
Changes in net reserves                           0    1,432     -3,596    -3,705    i-2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        7,299    5,467     30,314    32,535
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                8.2     14.5       37.2      42.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         16,466   60,477     94,404    98,232
IBRD                                         646    5,590       8,138     7,993
IDA                                         3,972   12,019     17,912    18,562                    G: 4.329 A: 7.993
Total debt service                            1,309    5,945     10,832    10,001
IBRD                                         126       777      1,411     1,627                                    B: 16,562
IDA                                           38       179       381      1,372 
Composition of net resource flows                                                        F: 39,448                    c 288
Official grants                              449       406       379        307                                     D: 3,965
Official creditors                           603    2,645       -312      1,727
Private creditors                            -10    5,741       2,840    -1,433
Foreign direct investment                      0       287      3,557     2,462                               E 23,847
Portfolio equity                               0         0      1,828       -61
World Bank program
Commitments                                 1,829    2,645      1,755     2,055      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                507    2,472       1,372     1,421      B - IDA    D - Other muIbateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                          84       383      1,071     2,193      C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    423    2,088        302       -772
Interest payments                             80       572       721       806
Net transfers                                342    1,516       -420    -1,578
Development Economics                                                                                                     1/31/00
- 56 -



