Report No. PID8205
Project Name                     India-Immunization Strengthening(@)
Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Targeted Health
Project ID                       INPE67330
Borrower(s)                      Government of India
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 2000
Projected Board Date             April 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
India has made significant progress in the past several decades in improving
the health and well being of its people. However, the country continues to
bear a heavy burden of poverty-related health problems, with maternal and
child health indicators below average for the country's stage of development
and income level. The implementation capacity of the public health and
family welfare system, including the immunization program, varies widely
among the states, many of which are confronting fiscal crises. There are
three main groups of states: those with strong implementation capacity,
those in which this capacity is improving, and those where implementation
capacity is weak.
The Government of India (GOI) is addressing these issues through various
measures. The investments in economic growth and human development have
doubled life expectancy, halved under-five mortality and reduced fertility by
nearly half in the past 50 years, with accelerating progress since the mid-
80s, especially on fertility reduction. Since the early 1990s, India has:
(a) revamped its family welfare program by eliminating method-specific
contraceptive targets and adopting a reproductive and child health program
approach; (b) strengthened its disease control programs to deal with a
substantial proportion of the major disease burden, for example,
tuberculosis; and (c) embarked upon major health system strengthening
efforts in eight major states. The remaining problems are being tackled
through efforts to: bring about further reform at the central, state and
district level; decentralize service delivery; rationalize the public-
private mix of services; and target public sector services on the poor, with
priority to primary level services;
Ten years of collaborative sector work with the Bank on reproductive health,
nutrition, and broad health sector issues, has contributed importantly to the
development of GOI health policy and strategy.
GOI has addressed its health, nutrition and population problems over the past
25 years mainly with national resources, but has received some external



assistance from IDA and other donors. IDA has financed over 20 HNP projects
during this period. This assistance has focused on strengthening national
programs, such as the family welfare (reproductive and child health) program,
nutrition/child welfare programs, and health projects of two main types:
state health reform efforts, and nation-wide disease-control programs.
2. Objectives
To (a) eradicate poliomyelitis (polio); and (b) reduce other vaccine-
preventable diseases by strengthening the routine immunization program. The
proposed three-year project would represent the first phase of support for
immunization, with a second project anticipated about two years after this
project becomes effective, provided that performance is satisfactory.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA is the largest health sector donor in India and globally, with
substantial cross-country experience. It is therefore well-situated to
assist in improving the quality of the EPI program, linking the program to
other health investments, including others financed by IDA, and in developing
a refined strategic plan.
The Bank Group is the largest external assistance donor to India, convenes
the annual development forum, and plays a major coordinating role in many
sectors, including the health sector. IDA is assisting GOI and its
development partners to marshall the massive additional resources needed for
the eradication of polio. IDA involvement has contributed to GOI recognition
of the need for a long-term strategic framework for immunization.
4. Description
The project would support acceleration of polio eradication and strengthen
the routine immunization program, which is an integral component of the
nation-wide Reproductive and Child Health program. It would have three
components: (a) polio eradication; (b) strengthening routine immunization;
and (c) strategic framework development.
The polio eradication component would finance about 50t of polio vaccine and
social mobilization activities for National Immunization Days (NIDs),
including information, education, and communication (IEC), training,
transport, and house-to-house mop-up campaigns. The type and extent of
activities and quantum of financing required would be determined each year by
the Summer surveillance data on polio transmission and the support mobilized
from other sources.
The strengthening routine immunization component would support: (a)
institutional strengthening, and (b) outreach and social mobilization.
Institutional strengthening would address, selectively, critical management
constraints and finance replacement of cold chain and injection safety
equipment nation-wide. Management capacity strengthening would focus on
filling critical vacancies, rebuilding training in immunization, and
improving program monitoring and vaccine logistics. Lessons in microplanning
from the highly successful mobilization efforts for polio eradication would
be captured at national, state, district, block, and village level to
strengthen the routine immunization program. In eight weaker performing
- 2 -



states, additional resources would be provided through innovative rural and
urban outreach and social mobilization schemes to improve regularity of, and
physical access to outreach sessions, improve information to local
communities and mobilize communities to utilize the available services, and
subsidize private and NGO hospitals or clinics to provide immunization to
urban slum communities. Recognizing the district-specific nature of the
service delivery and social mobilization gaps, project design would allow for
demand-driven, innovative approaches and operational flexibility at the
district level, and would decentralize responsibility to the state level.
The strategic framework would articulate medium-term goals and strategies for
dealing with vaccine-preventable diseases. This component would support
studies and demonstration projects to inform further development of policies
and guiding principles, and workshops and conferences to develop national
consensus on those policies and guiding principles. The framework would be
further elaborated during the GOI's 10th Five Year Plan preparation process.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               13.47
IBRD
IDA                                      212.85
Total Project Cost                       226.32
6. Implementation
The project would be an integral component of the Reproductive and Child
Health (RCH) program of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which is
partially financed by the Bank-financed RCH project. The Immunization
Strengthening project would be managed through the structures and processes
that have been established to manage the RCH program at national, state, and
district level. No separate project implementation unit would be employed,
since the experience with RCH and other projects demonstrates that working
within the bureaucratic system gradually builds ownership and commitment to
the program objectives, and, most importantly, helps to create enduring
institutional capacity. The key implementation structures include the Family
Welfare departments at national and state levels, and the District Family
Welfare Bureaus. The Child Health Division at national MOHFW level would be
strengthened by additional consultancy support for cold chain and vaccine
logistics monitoring, including analysis of vaccine wastage, and computerized
management systems for cold chain and vaccine logistics will be established
at national and state levels. Autonomous societies known as SCOVAs,
established at state level for managing funds flow for the RCH project, have
been effective in ensuring timely flow of funds from the center to the
district level. The SCOVA mechanism will be utilized for funds flow for this
project.
The central government finances the State and District Family Welfare (FW)
Bureaus and about 70% of the clinic-based and outreach staff who deliver
immunization services, while state governments finance the remaining 30% of
staff as well as travel allowances of all staff and logistics. In weaker
performing states, failure to fill a significant proportion of posts financed
by the central government and inadequacy of travel allowances contribute to
poor performance. The states will be required to fill critical posts. The
-3 -



project also would supplement funds for staff mobility and logistics in
weaker states. Some weaker-performing states (such as West Bengal, Orissa,
Uttar Pradesh and potentially, Rajasthan) are embarking on health sector or
economic re-structuring projects that are expected to eventually ensure
adequate funding for primary care including staff mobility and logistics. For
other states (such as Bihar), alternate strategies will be developed as part
of the strategic framework. During campaigns, such as the polio eradication
NIDs, staff efforts are augmented by a large number of volunteers and
grassroots workers of related government departments and NGOs. The project
would support honoraria for such efforts. Phased decentralization is in
progress to local government institutions known as panchayati raj
institutions (PRIs), for staffing, budgetary oversight, and program
monitoring functions. The extent of decentralization varies in different
states, and is influenced by the capacity of the PRIs . Since project
implementation is fully integrated within the functioning of district FW
Bureaus, decentralization of project implementation would proceed as local
capacity grows. The Outreach and Social Mobilization Schemes to be supported
under the project would strengthen decentralization by providing funds to be
used flexibly by districts. Technical support would be provided by the
UNICEF state offices to build district capacity for planning and implementing
these Schemes.
The polio eradication effort has led the Government of India (GOI) to
establish an Interagency Coordination Committee (ICC), chaired by the
Secretary, Family Welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, with
representation from all related government departments, external agencies and
NGOs providing support for immunization. The ICC is responsible for
coordination and macro-planning, and is assisted by Working Groups for Social
Mobilization and for Vaccines, and these Working Groups provide vehicles for
enhanced technical support to the Program. This coordinating mechanism is
replicated at state and district levels. The mechanism has been very
effective as evidenced by the massive mobilization efforts that have enabled
immunization of more than 90- of children below age five (about 123 million
children) on each National Immunization Day. GOI has utilized the ICC
mechanism with outstanding success to facilitate coordinated support for
polio eradication from more than eight international and bilateral agencies
as well as Rotary International. The ICC is now paying increasing attention
to other vaccine-preventable diseases, in addition to polio.
For polio eradication, an extensive monitoring system has been established
under the ICC. The system includes on-site observation of NID booths and
house-to-house mopping up by independent monitors, post-NID surveys of
coverage, and special efforts to seek out zero-dose children with the
assistance of grassroots NGOs such as Christian Children's Fund, particularly
in districts that had polio cases. Routine immunization is monitored through
two large scale surveys: (a) UNICEF cluster surveys that provide annual
state coverage and cluster surveys focusing on zero-dose children in high-
risk districts that had polio cases during the previous Summer; and (b) bi-
annual RCH household surveys that provide district coverage data. The RCH
household survey data as well as occurrence of polio cases are being used for
district level micro-planning. The RCH surveys also will monitor
differentials in coverage levels for poverty versus non-poverty groups.
Procurement : The "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (January 1995, Revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
- 4 -



and January 1999) shall apply to all Goods and Works financed under the
project. The "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, Revised in September 1997 and January
1999) shall apply to all consultants' services financed under the project.
Since most projects have experienced difficulties in implementing procurement
in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines and procedures, key features
of this project would be (a) procurement of oral polio vaccines by UNICEF;
and (b) use of a procurement agent experienced in Bank guidelines and
procedures for procurement of non-vaccine items. MOHFW will prepare annual
procurement plans. It is estimated that items to be procured by the
procurement agent will be immunization equipment such as cold chain
equipment, stoves and sterilizers, printing of registers and cards and some
pharmaceuticals. Services to be procured will be institutional and those of
individual consultants. All other procurement of small items, including
hiring of local folk media groups, hiring of publicity services, and hiring
of vehicles, etc., will be carried out at State/District level.
Financial Management: The funding to MOHFW would be through the annual
budget. Flow of funds from MOHFW to SCOVAs will be through banking channels.
The initial allocation to SCOVAs will be based on the cash flow forecasts of
SCOVAs (which in turn would be based on their work programs and budgets).
Subsequent funding will be based on performance of key indicators and the
projected funds requirement of SCOVAs. An integrated computerized financial
management system will be implemented for the project. The key tasks that
will be carried out to implement the integrated financial management system
are: (a) design, development and installation of Project Financial
Management Software (PFMS) software; (b) procurement of necessary hardware
at MOHFW and the participating states; (c) recruitment of staff both at
MOHFW and the states; and (d) training of the staff in the implementation of
the PFMS.
7. Sustainability
The Government of India and the states are strongly committed to the project.
The fiscal implications of the project are relatively small. GOI has
provided major support to the immunization program for fifteen years, and has
assumed a greater proportion of the financial burden over time. The project
enjoys support from all key stakeholders.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A huge body of experience and literature attests to the major impact and high
cost-effectiveness of immunization programs. Since polio eradication is
feasible, the savings in health costs from eliminating the need for treatment
and vaccination are enormous. Even when eradication of a disease is not
possible, immunization ranks among the most cost-effective health
interventions (WDR, 1993). Global experience with strengthening immunization
programs demonstrates that:
building capacity enhances the ability of the delivery system to deliver new
vaccines; and
strengthening the immunization program can result in better implementation
and greater equity of access to the full range of essential primary health
care services.
-5-



India has a good track record with targeted and campaign approaches. The
NIDs carried out since 1995 are the largest such activities ever carried out
worldwide and their success has been acknowledged by WHO, UNICEF and the
development community. The January 1999 NID resulted in 123 million children
under five being immunized, the largest number of children ever provided with
any health service in such a short time-frame. Moreover, India has
successfully carried out targeted disease-control programs with IDA support,
e.g., for Leprosy Cr. 2528-IN.
Important lessons from smallpox eradication are being applied to polio.
First, program focus is on disease surveillance rather than immunization
coverage. Second, flexible control strategies are being driven by
surveillance data. For example, based on 1998 surveillance data, India
adopted an accelerated eradication strategy for 1999/2000, during which NIDs
have been increased from two to four nation-wide, and two state-wide days
added in states with high transmission rates. Also, surveillance data would
be used to determine areas where intensive mopping-up campaigns will be
implemented as eradication nears. Another lesson is that routine programs
need to capture the benefits of capacity-building resulting from polio
eradication, which did not occur with the smallpox campaign. Examples
include mapping of hard-to-reach villages, use of alternate service delivery
modes to reach such communities, and social mobilization using locally
available resources. International experience also suggests that
decentralization of immunization program functions should be selective, and
should proceed in tandem with progressive build-up of local capacity.
Several program functions have already been decentralized in the Indian
program. This project would support further capacity-building at state and
district levels through the innovative Rural and Urban Outreach and Social
Mobilization Schemes.
The project design also reflects the lessons from more than 20 IDA-supported
HNP projects over the last 20 years including:
the primacy of good training, especially in-service training;
the need to assure the flow of essential supplies, e.g., drugs and vaccines;
the importance of good monitoring and evaluation, especially, in the case of
the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI), of disease surveillance and
timely local response to outbreaks;
the need for mechanisms to assure timely start-up;
assured timely flow of funds to the project; and
most important of all, Borrower commitment.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The project does not involve any significant environmental risks.     Support
for the immunization program would improve the safe disposal of syringes and
needles. A review of injection safety during project preparation led to the
decision not to use disposable syringes in the project, but to continue with
re-usable syringes and needles until auto-destruct needles become available.
GOI is fully committed to the replacement of cold chain equipment with CFC-
free equipment in accordance with the Montreal protocol, by the required
date.
-6-



11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Leader
Indra Pathmanathan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-0730
Fax:        (202)  522-2955
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 21, 2000.
- 7 -



