Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3340 IN
Development Credit Agreement
Immunization Strengthening Project
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3340 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INDIA, 
acting by its President (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied 
itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out jointly 
by the Borrower and the Project States (as hereinafter 
defined) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available 
to the Project States a part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from each 
of the Project States certain undertakings in respect 
of the carrying out of their respective portions of 
the Project. 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the 
basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as 
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions: Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the 
Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 
3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time 
receive less than the full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, 
the Association shall have the right 
to allocate 
and apply the amount so received in any manner and for 
such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement 
as the Association shall in its sole discretion 
determine.”; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, 
in the second sentence, the word “radiogram” with the 
word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end 
of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile 
transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“District” means an administrative unit 
or a municipal corporation within a Project State (as 
hereafter defined), including any successors thereto;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1 
through 4 and set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in respect of the 
Special Account;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in 
Section 2.02;
(d)
“IEC” means Information, Education and 
Communication;
(e)
“Letter of Undertaking” means the Letter 
of Undertaking to be executed and furnished to the 
Borrower by each of the Project States (as hereafter 
defined) pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
“MIS” means the Project’s Management 
Information System;
(g)
“MOHFW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health and Family Welfare;
(h)
“NID” or “National Immunization Day” 
means a day or days declared to be a day of national 
immunization by the Borrower for polio immunization of 
all children under five;
(i)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation 
Plan for the carrying out of the Project, dated March 
15, 2000 and approved by the Association;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each 
report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Project State” means any State or Union 
Territory of the Borrower, including any successor or 
successors thereto, which participates in the Project 
and from which the Borrower has obtained a Letter of 
Undertaking;
(l)
“Project Focus States” means the states 
of Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Orrisa, 
Rajasthan, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh which have 
low immunization coverage;
(m)
“Reproductive and Child Health Project” 
means the Project financed under Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement N018-IN dated July 30, 
1997 between India and the Association acting as 
Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund;
(n)
“Scheduled Tribes” means the population 
groups specified as “Scheduled Tribes” pursuant to 
Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account 
referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(p)
“Sub-NID” or Sub-National Immunization 
Day” means a day or days declared to be a day of 
national immunization by the Borrower for polio 
immunization of all children under 5 in selected 
States; and
(q)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations 
Children’s Fund.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to 
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
and six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR106,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
Page  4
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the 
Project, open and maintain in dollars a separate 
special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 
2004 or such later date as the Association shall 
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time 
at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the 
Credit Account or canceled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied 
from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i) 
at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and
(iii)  in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that 
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the 
Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service 
charges shall be payable semiannually on April 15 and 
Page  5
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing 
October 15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable 
on April 15, 2020 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
(i)
the Borrower’s per capita gross 
national product (GNP), as determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the 
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review 
and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of 
the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of 
installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay 
twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months 
or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the 
events set out in 
this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that 
there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Association may revise the modification referred to in 
paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all 
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided 
that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained 
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of 
terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association 
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so 
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments 
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States 
Page  6
of America is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
family welfare and public health practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon any provisions of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Project 
State to carry out its respective portion of the 
project in accordance with a Letter of Undertaking 
satisfactory to the Association to be executed and 
furnished to the Borrower by each Project State, and 
also in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon any of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower: 
(i)
shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Project State to perform the obligations of such 
Project State set forth 
in the 
Agreement and in its Letter of Undertaking; and
(ii)
shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
paragraphs (a) and (c) of this Section and except as 
the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause 
each Project State to carry out, the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Credit available to each Project State 
for such parts of the Project as are to be carried out 
by such Project State in accordance with the 
Borrower’s standard arrangements for development 
assistance to the States or Union Territories, as the 
case may be.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 
of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Borrower’s 
national immunization program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on 
said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a 
financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to 
the 
Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to 
the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon 
as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each 
such year:
(A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and
(B)
an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such 
other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to 
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
Page  8
(ii)
retain, until at least one year 
after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the 
provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable 
the Borrower, not later than April 1, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to 
the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources 
and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and
(B) shows 
separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress 
in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and 
(B) 
explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of 
procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
Page  9
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for 
such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of 
the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
 (a)
Any Project State shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Letter of Undertaking.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred 
after the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that any Project State will be able to 
perform its obligations under its respective letter of 
Undertaking.
(c)
The Borrower shall have waived or failed 
to enforce any of the provisions of any Letter of 
Undertaking. 
(d)
Any Letter of Undertaking shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to 
adversely affect the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the 
General Conditions, the following additional events 
are specified, any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after 
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower 
under Schedule 4 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the 
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional 
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director Deputy Secretary 
or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic 
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is 
Page  10
designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are 
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
91113013404
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) 
or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting 
through their duly authorized representatives, have 
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
Page  11
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of 
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
  (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Polio Eradication 
   70,800,000
90%
Activities under Part A
of the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts B
   22,800,000
90%
and C of the Project
(including pharmaceu-
ticals, vehicles,
equipment, MIS/IEC
materials and supplies)
(3)
Training and Consultants
    5,100,000
100% 
and NGO Services 
(including studies)
(4)
Incremental Operating
    1,200,000
80% of expenditures 
Costs
through August 31, 2001;
70% of expenditures 
from
September 1, 2001 to 
August 31, 2002; and 50%
of expenditures thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    6,600,000
TOTAL
  106,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than 
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; 
(c)
the term “polio eradication activities” 
means expenditures under Part A of the Project 
Page  12
incurred for polio vaccine, training, orientation, 
honorarium, consultant services, IEC material and 
services and mobility support; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” 
means expenditures under Parts B and C of the Project 
incurred in respect of hiring, maintenance and 
operation of vehicles, consumables, fuel and handling 
charges to States and Medical Stores Depots, travel 
and mobility support and equipment operations and 
maintenance, as well as cost of salaries and 
allowances of additional staff employed by agencies 
approved by the Association to serve as procurement 
agents for purposes of the Project who are engaged on 
a full time basis in the implementation of the 
Project, and cost of the operation and maintenance of 
additional equipment, vehicles and offices incurred by 
such agencies for purposes of implementing the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR10,500,000, may be made on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after March 15, 
2000;
(b)
expenditures incurred in, or by, any 
Project State (i) unless that Project State has 
executed a Letter of Undertaking satisfactory to the 
Association; and (ii) unless the Association has 
notified the Borrower that such Project State is in 
full compliance with the audit covenants under the 
Reproductive and Child Health Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the 
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for goods (except 
vehicles) under contracts costing less than $300,000 
equivalent each, vehicles under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each, and services under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for 
employment of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent 
for employment of individual consultants, and for 
training and incremental operating costs and polio 
eradication activities, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in the 
Reserve Bank of India a special deposit account on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
After the Association has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have 
received:
Page  13
(i) 
the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex 
A to 
this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a 
Project Management Report pursuant to Section 4.02(b) 
of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to 
this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of 
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time 
that any Project Management Report does not adequately 
provide the information required pursuant to Section 
4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to 
furnish to the Association within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Association shall determine, in its 
sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time 
that any payment out of the Special Account was made 
Page  14
for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time 
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account 
will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following 
such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the 
Association, refund to the Association all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  
On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
Page  15
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make 
further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify 
by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association 
into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit 
Account for deposit into the Special Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal 
of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount 
equal to the lesser of: 
(a) 
the amount so requested; and
(b) 
the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said 
Project Management Report to be remaining in the 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$8,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  16
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to: (a) 
eradicate poliomyelitis; and (b) reduce 
vaccine-preventable diseases by strengthening the 
Borrower’s immunization program. The Project consists 
of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Polio Eradication
Provision of polio vaccines and support for 
social mobilization for NIDs, Sub-NIDs and related 
“mop-up” activities.
Part B:
Strengthening Routine Immunization
1.
Strengthening by MOHFW and Project States of:
(a) 
program management capacity and 
processes;
(b)
human resource development through 
training and technical support; 
(c) 
program monitoring through 
computerization and regular reviews; and
(d) 
cold chain and injection safety equipment 
and its maintenance.
2.
Strengthening the service delivery capacity of 
the Project Focus States.
Part C:
Strategic Framework Development
Provision of support for the development of a 
strategic framework to deal with Vaccine Preventable 
Diseases through research studies and evaluations, 
preparation of reports, workshops, seminars and 
consensus-building meetings and for activities related 
to disease surveillance.
*          *          *          *          *          
*
The Project is expected to be completed by 
December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  17
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods 
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured 
goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of 
the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $4,450,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Oral polio vaccines, estimated to cost up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$101,400,000, may be procured through UNICEF in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Contracts for: (i) small group of items 
such as furniture, equipment, MIS/IEC materials and 
supplies costing $10,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000 equivalent; and (ii) polio eradication 
activities costing $30,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,100,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement 
Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  18
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods 
awarded under international competitive bidding 
procedures, the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for 
goods/pharmaceuticals awarded under national 
competitive bidding procedures, the provisions set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions 
of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to 
consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of 
Consultants 
Page  19
1.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services which meet the requirement of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Consultants Guidelines and which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
NGO contracts for service delivery 
including the transportation of vaccine and social 
mobilization estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.14 of the 
Consultants Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services for strengthening routine immunization 
and development of strategic framework estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.19 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the 
Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  20
(c)
With respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by 
paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Monitoring and Evaluation and Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to 
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association, on or about September 30, in each year a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the previous year 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
following year; and
(c)
review with the Association, by October 
31, or such later date as the Association shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
Project Implementation Plan
The Borrower shall implement its national 
immunization program in accordance with its Project 
Implementation Plan (PIP) dated March 15, 2000 and 
shall carry out the Project in accordance therewith.  
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project State 
carries out its activities under the Project in 
accordance with the PIP.
3.
Resources
The Borrower shall allocate each year sufficient 
resources for the Borrower’s childhood immunization 
program.
Page  21
4.
Program
The Borrower, by no later than June 30, 2002, 
shall provide a statement of the guiding principles 
for adding new vaccines to the program at state or 
national level.
5.
Financial Management
For the purpose of strengthening the financial 
management capacity of the reproductive and child 
health program, of which immunization is an integral 
part, the Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project 
State to, engage a financial manager assisted by 
adequate staff with skills, qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
6.
Tribal Strategy
The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Project 
Focus State to, implement the Project in any tribal 
areas (as designated by such Project Focus State in 
accordance with applicable laws) in accordance with 
procedures and delivery strategies acceptable to the 
Association.
7.
Staffing
The Borrower shall ensure that each Project 
Focus State shall:
(a)
appoint, by no later than December 31, 
2000, and thereafter maintain staff, with adequate 
skills, experience and qualifications, to no less than 
80 percent of sanctioned positions for the Family 
Welfare Program at State and district level, and 
designate in each district an officer to be 
responsible for immunization.
(b)
ensure, that: (i) by December 31, 2002 at 
least 80 percent of sanctioned positions for auxiliary 
nurse midwifes are filled in each Project Focus State; 
(ii) and, for this purpose, if an adequate number of 
candidates are not available to fill such positions, 
recruit into government training institutions by March 
31, 2001, sufficient candidates to fill the aforesaid 
percentage of positions.
8.
Community Clinic Sessions
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Project 
Focus States to, ensure that at least 60% of planned 
community clinic sessions providing routine 
immunization and reproductive health services are held 
in districts agreed from time to time between the 
Borrower, the respective Project Focus State and the 
Association.
9.
Letter of Undertaking
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
each Letter of Undertaking shall include, inter alia, 
the following provisions:
(a)
Each Project State shall declare its 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
Page  22
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to that 
end, it shall agree to undertake its portion of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate health and family welfare 
practices, and to provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required therefor.
(b)
Each Project State shall agree to assume 
all the obligations applicable or relevant to the 
Project States under this Agreement and to take all 
actions necessary to undertake its portion of the 
Project. Each Project State shall further agree to 
carry out its activities under the Project in 
accordance with PIP.
(c)
Each Project State shall undertake to 
procure the goods and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit under this Agreement in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
Each Project State shall agree that the 
Borrower or the Association  may from time to time 
inspect the goods and services under the Project 
including all records and documents relating thereto.
(e)
Each Project State shall agree to assume 
and undertake the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) of the General Conditions 
in respect of its Letter of Undertaking and its 
portion of the Project.
(f)
Each Project State shall agree to assume 
and undertake to comply or assist the Borrower in 
complying with the financial covenants prescribed by 
Article IV of this Agreement.
(g)
Each Project State shall agree that the 
Borrower may suspend or terminate its right to use the 
proceeds of the Credit made available under this 
Agreement upon its failure to perform any obligations 
under its Letter of Undertaking or upon notice by the 
Association that it intends to exercise its remedies 
under Article V of this Agreement.
(h)
Each Project State shall agree promptly 
to inform the Borrower and the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere 
with the progress of its portion of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit under 
this Agreement, or the performance of its obligations 
under its Letter of Undertaking.
(i)
Each Project State shall agree that it 
shall, from time to time, at the request of either the 
Borrower or the Association:
(i)
exchange views with the Borrower 
and/or the Association (through the Borrower) 
with regard to the progress of carrying out 
activities under its portion of 
the 
Project, its performance under its Letter of 
Undertaking and other matters 
relating 
Page  23
to the purposes of the Credit under this Agreement; 
and
(ii)
furnish all such information 
related thereto as may reasonably be required by 
the Association.
(j)
Each Project State shall agree to 
maintain its existing Project 
Management/Steering/Coordinating Committee to oversee 
Project activities within such Project State and to 
coordinate Project activities with the Borrower’s 
Interministerial Steering Committee and Project 
Management Committee.
(k)
Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, each Project State 
shall agree either to:
(i) 
utilize the services of the 
national-level Procurement Support Agency (PSA);
(ii)
engage a State-level Procurement 
Support Agency with terms of reference, 
resources and staff satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association; or
(iii)
in the case of those Project 
States with existing procurement units acceptable 
to the Borrower and Association, utilize 
such existing procurement units, for 
procuring the goods and consultants’ services required 
for the Project.
(l)
Each Project State shall agree to 
establish a mechanism acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Association for the transfer of funds from the 
State level to the project implementing agencies at 
District or institutional levels.
10.
Annual Review and Work Plan
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by September 30 of each year during the 
implementation of the Project beginning with September 
30, 2000:
(i)
provide to the Association an 
annual work plan, acceptable to the Association, 
setting forth the activities (including 
pilot projects and studies) under the 
Project to be carried out during the following year 
including financial 
allocations to be made available for such purpose, as 
well as the performance 
benchmarks and 
development objectives to be achieved and drawn from 
the 
overall framework agreed to 
be achieved under the Project; and
(ii)
review with the Association the 
progress achieved in implementing the Project 
under the annual work plan for the previous year 
and the achievement of the 
performance benchmarks and development objectives 
incorporated therein;
Page  24
(b)
allocate Project funds for each year 
taking into account (a) in the case of certain states, 
the previous years performance; and (b) criteria 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
implement each annual work plan in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
