Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T 7209 AR
TECHNICAL ANNEX
ARGENTINA
El NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT
December 23, 1997
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure SMU
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 20, 1997)
Currency Unit          =          Peso (Arg$)
US$1.00                =          Arg$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED
ENSO          -      El Nilto Southern Oscillation
GoA           -      Government of Argentina
IBRD          -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
JEXIM         -      The Export-Import Bank of Japan
MERCOSUR -           Common Market Agreement among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay
PG            -      Provincial Governments
POM           -      Project Operational Manual
SAFP          -      Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias
Secretariat for Financial Assistance to the Provinces of the Borrower's Ministry
of Interior
SST           -      Sea Surface Temperature
SUCCE         -      Sub- Unidad Central de Coordinaci6n para la Emergencia
Central Sub-Unit for the Coordination for Emergencies
SUPCE         -      Sub- Unidad Provincial de Coordinacion para la Emergencia
Provincial Sub-Unit for the Coordination for Emergencies
UEC           -      Unidad Ejecutiva Central
Central Executing Unit
Vice President:                Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:              Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:               Sri-Ram Aiyer
Team Leader:                   Abel Mejia
The Memorandum and Recommendation of the President and the accompanying technical annex for this operation was
prepared based on the findings of a mission by the Government of Argentina to Washington during November 13-24,
1997. The core project preparation team consisted of Abel Mejia, LCSFP (Team Leader), Adrien Campbell (LCSFP),
Juan David Quintero (LCSES), Ede Isazz (LCSES) and Reynaldo Pastor and Ferenc Molnar (LEGLA). Gloria Bernero
(LCSFP) provided administrative support. Argentine team members: Jorge Acosta, Rogelio Vincenti, Juan Carlos
Gimenez, Philip Sopher, Roberto Bergman, Ruben Perry and Daniel Barrientos. The management team for this operation
includes: Regional Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki, CMU Director: Myrna Alexander, Sector Director: Sri-Ram
Aiyer, Sector Leader: Asif Faiz and Lead Economist: John Underwood. Peer reviewers are: Armando Araujo (OCSPR),
Eugene McCarthy and Maria Victoria Lister (LCSFP); and external peer reviewer: Juan B. Valdes, Civil Engineering
Department Head at the University of Arizona.



ARGENTINA
EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Argentine Republic
Implementing Agencies:    Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinacion para la Emergencia-
Unidad Ejecutora Central de la Secretaria de Asistencia a
las Provincias, Ministry of the Interior, and the Beneficiary
Provinces
Poverty Category:        Not applicable
Program Objective
Category:                Emergency Assistance Loan
Environment Category:    B
Loan Amount:             US$42.0 million (including up to US$8.0 million of
retroactive financing)
Terms:                   Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based U.S. dollar
single currency loans
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances
Estimated Costs:             Protection Phase         Rehabilitation Phase
Northwestern Provinces        US$15.0 m.               US$20.0 m.
Littoral Provinces                                     US$25.0 m.
TOTAL                         US$15.0 m.               US$45.0 m.
Financing Plan:               IBRD              PG              Total
Northwestern Provinces    US$26.2 m.       US$8.8 m.       US$35.0 m.
Littoral Provinces        US$15.8 m.       US$9.2 m.       US$25.0 m.
TOTAL                     US$42.0 m.      US$18.0 m.        US$60.0 m.
Estimated Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map:                     IBRD-29272
Project Identification
Number:                  AR-PE-55935






ARGENTINA
EL NI19O EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paee No.
L Background and Strategy                                                  1
A. El Nifo impact in Argentina ...........    ..1.......... 
B. Government strategy        .    .............. .                   4
C. Lessons learned from previous projects ..................          5
D. Rationale for Bank assistance ......................               5
II. The Project                                                            6
A. Objective ......................... .                              6
B. Preparation ........... ............                               6
C. Description ...... ............ ..............                     7
D. Cost .      .      .      .................................        9
E. Financing                      .....  9
F. Environment                      . . ... 10
G. Risks                       ...... 10
HI. Project Implementation                                                11
A. Arrangements                       ..                             11
B. Eligibility criteria for sub-projects ....................         11
C. Project supervision and review ......................              13
D. Procurement ..... ...........              ...............         13
E. Disbursement                      . . .    15
F. Retroactivefinancing ...........................                   15
G. Financial managment and auditing .....................             15
H. Reporting            ..................  16
I. Monitoring, impact and performance indicators ....... ......       16
J. Project Operational Manual .......................                 17
IV. Agreements                                                            17



APPENDICES
Paee No.
Appendix 1: Miscellaneous El Nifio graphs, maps and tables.         18
Appendix 2: El Nifio and Paranki'Paraguay flooding correlation      22
Appendix 3: Report on impacts of El Nifio in Argentina by Professor  23
Juan Valdes (Head of Civil Engineering at University of Arizona).
Appendix 4: List of meetings held by central and local governments in  48
response to the El Nifio phenomenon.
Appendix 5: SUCCE participants in project preparation.              50
Appendix 6: List of financed (emergency loan and mobilized resources)  51
and non-financed (future loan) construction works in the regions.
Appendix 7: Project description outline.                            53
Appendix 8: Guidelines for Terms of Reference for consultants to    55
undertake a regional flood-risk zoning of the northwestern provinces.
Appendix 9: Project Cost and Financing                              57
Appendix 10: Project Operational Manual (POM)                       60
Appendix 11: Proposed engineering design criteria.                  62
Appendix 12: Bank supervision plan.                                 63
Appendix 13: Financial Management System                            64
Appendix 14: Monitoring: Performance Indicators and Implementation  66
Plan



ARGENTINA
EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
L. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
A. El Nifio Impact in Argentina
1.    The El Niho Phenomenon. El Nifio is the biggest cause of climate variability in the world.
El Niflo is Spanish for "Christ Child", given that name because of its early December
manifestation in the coastal Pacific waters of Peru and Equador, where abnormally warm sea
surface temperatures (SSTs) often signal the beginning of positive SST anomalies over the eastern
half of the equatorial Pacific. In parallel, there is an atmospheric phenomenon known as the
Southern Oscillation, named and described by Sir Gilbert Walker, which consists of an east-west
atmospheric pressure see-saw, causing changes in the Pacific trade winds, that directly affects
tropical weather around the globe. Given that these two events occur in parallel, scientists refer
to it as the El Nifno/Southern Oscillation phenomenon (ENSO), though for simplicity, the event is
generally referred to as El Nifio.
3.    Normal conditions. El Nifio is a cyclical event that occurs every three to seven years and
lasts for approximately two years. Each El Nifio has its own characteristics; no one observed
cycle has repeated itself to date. During normal conditions the trade winds blow toward the west
across the tropical Pacific. These winds pile up warm surface water in the western Pacific, so that
the sea surface is about one-half meter higher at Indonesia than at Ecuador. The sea surface
temperature is also about eight degrees Celsius (C) higher in the west, with cool temperatures off
the Pacific coast of South America arising because of an upwelling of cold water from deeper
ocean levels. This cold water is nutrient-rich, supporting high levels of primary productivity,
diverse marine ecosystems, and major fisheries. Rainfall comes from the rising air over the
warmest water, while the eastern Pacific is relatively dry. Observations have shown that the cool
water (generally below about 170 C) is within 50 meters of the sea surface.
4.    El Niuo conditions. During an El Nifio the prevailing low-pressure system over Indonesia
moves eastward, weakening the high pressure system near South America (the difference in
atmospheric pressure is measured between Darwin and Tahiti). As a result the easterly trade
winds relax in the central and western Pacific. The water that has accumulated in the western
Pacific now has no force holding it in place. The Pacific behaves like a bath tub that is suddenly
lifted at one end, that is the warm surface water that has built up in the west slopes back eastward,
reversing the direction of the sea surface current. Sea levels and SST off the coast of South
America rise, and the thernocline (the temperature gradient between cold and warm water) is
pushed down to a much deeper level, leading to a depression of the thermocline (known as a
warm phase) in the eastern Pacific Ocean waters and an elevation of the thermocline in the west
(Australia). Rainfall follows the warm water eastward, causing flooding in Peru, southern Brazil,



-2-
and northern Argentina and draught in the western Pacific (Indonesia and Australia). The
eastward discharge of the atmospheric heat source overlying the warmest waters result in large
changes in the global atmospheric circulation, which in turn causes global climate variability.
Weather anomalies occur all over the globe every year, but a distinctive few do tend to recur with
most or all El Nifio events and are thus referred to as teleconnections (climate anomalies
associated with El Nifno).
5.    La Ninia conditions. At the end of the El Niflo cycle is an equally important occurrence:
La Nifia. This event is marked by the injection of water that is colder than usual (a rise in the
thermocline), causing the waters of the eastern Pacific to cool considerably. This event has the
opposite impact of the El Nifo event, meaning droughts occur where floods once were and
above-normal rainfall in draught areas, causing floods even in eastern Australia.
6.    During the last century more than a dozen El Nifno events have affected the South
American coast. Graph 1 of Appendix 1 shows the Multivariate ENSO Index, or MEI, (positive
values indicate El Nifio) used by the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency to illustrate
the strength of the six strongest (measured) El Nifnos of the century. The milder El Nifio events
raise water temperatures only a degree or two along the 5,000-mile equatorial Pacific band. The
stronger events, like the El Nifio of 1982-83, raise temperatures 5-10°C and have had a major
impact not only on local weather but on climatic conditions around the globe.
7.    The first three events (1957-58, 1965-66, and 1972-73) all featured an early warming in
the far eastern Pacific and reached their standardized peak before the end of the first year. The
more recent events (1982-83, 1986-87, and 1991-92) took longer to mature, lacking the early
warming in the eastern Pacific, and typically reached their peak in the spring of their second year
or even later.
8.    El Nino impact in Argentina. In Latin America, particularly Argentina, El Ninio events
have coincided with severe flooding in the Parana River basin (Appendix 2), a 2,600,000 km2 area
that encompasses important regions of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, and Paraguay in
its entirety. The 1982-83 event gave rise to the worst flooding in the Parana basin in the
twentieth century, with an estimated US$1.8 billion in economic losses. Along with the flooding
came incidences disease breakouts, given the damage to potable water and sanitation facilities,
and the collapse of other social infrastructure services, such as electricity, roads, telephones,
schools, hospitals, and housing. On a smaller scale, the 1992 flood, which coincided with the
1991-92 El Nifio, also had a tremendous impact on the basin, with economic losses at US$905
million and 3.1 million inhabitants flooded. The moderate 1966 and 1977 floods resulted in about
US$750 million and US$266 million in economic losses, respectively. However, as the region
develops economically', the number of people affected increases each time there is a new flood,
even if the flood is of a lesser magnitude.
The export growth rate of the northeast provinces in 1994 was greater than that of any other region, reflecting
good cereals, cotton, petroleum, and tea expansion, particularly in Chaco and Corrientes. (Staff Appraisal
Report, "Argentina: Flood Protection Project", October 29, 1996).



-3-
9.    The 1997-98 El Nino. The return of El Ninio was first detected in the eastern Pacific in
May 1997. This event has reached the time of year when seasonal persistence should guarantee
full-blown El Nino conditions through at least early 1998. Indicators used to monitor the event
show that it has matured very quickly, appearing to have reached its standardized peak (nearly
+2.9 units above normal conditions in July-August 1997) before the end of the first year. This
event shows a similar pattern of development to those of 1957-58, 1965-66, and 1972-73,
although has the strength of that of the 1982-83 event. Although these temperature anomalies
started earlier than in 1982-83, they could, if sustained through the southem hemnisphere's
summer months (December-April), give rise to rainfall on a scale experienced in 1982-83 (Map A
and B of Appendix 1).
10.   Based on the behavior to date and statistical correlation with trends in the past, when early
maturing occurs, a quick oscillation in the cycle tends to occur, giving rise to a La Nifia event in
June-July of the following year. This consensus is also shared by the scientific community and
predicted in several climate models used by the National Weather Service (NWS), the Center for
Ocean, Land and Atmosphere Studies (COLA), and the Bureau of Meteorology Research Center
(BMRC). Such an occurrence would lead to above-normal rainfall in the northwestern provinces
of Argentina. (Appendix 3 contains an analysis on the possible impact of El Nifno in Argentina
over the course of the next six to nine months.)
11.   The impact of the 1997-98 on Argentina. The signs of El Nifo have been present for
several months in the Parana basin. In southern Brazil substantial rains have flooded the Uruguay
River, which discharges directly into the Parana river delta. The Uruguay River has historically
not been a source of severe flooding until this year, in which it exceeded the 100-year flood event.
In fact, in the major city of Concordia (Entre Rios), that has a river flow discharge record since
1898, has suffered damages from floods as never before. El Nifio-related floods have affected a
population of about 200,000 since July 1997. As of November 24, 1997 about 12,500 people had
been evacuated from their homes in four different provinces (Table 1, Appendix 1), 11,600 of
them living in the provinces of Corrientes and Entre Rios, which borders the Uruguay River.
What is even more unusual is that when the Uruguay River floods, it does so for a short amount
time because of its steeply sloped riverbed. However, the Parana River has been flowing full all
year (approximately 1.5 meters above normal river height), impeding the Uruguay River from
flowing into the delta. The Parana River has had an elevated flow because the Pantanal (a large
wet-land region in southern Brazil and Paraguay) in Paraguay has been roughly 2.0 meters over
its normal water height since April 1997.
12.   As previously mentioned, there is a consensus that this year's El Nifio could quickly
diverge into the cold phase around June-July 1998. Such an occurrence would bring less
precipitation to the ParanA basin, while the arid and semi-arid regions of the northwest would be
susceptible to an increase in rainfall. Taking into consideration the region's geomorphological
characteristics and snowmelt period (1997 recorded an above-normal accumulation of 20 meters
of snowpack), this would mean the occurrence of flash floods and mudslides. Although flash
floods are not persistent floods, like those in the ParanA that impede long-term rehabilitation
efforts, they can sweep away urban infrastructure and damage related services in a matter of
minutes, causing social, economic, and environmental losses, and, even worse, the loss of human
life.



-4-
B. Government Strategy
13.   Previous emergency actions. As a consequence of the serious floodings of the Parana,
Paraguay and Uruguay basins in 1992, the Government of Argentina (GoA) asked the Bank to
finance an emergency project to rehabilitate the damaged infrastructure across all sectors. The
Bank answered the request by providing US$170 million to finance the US$270 million Flood
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3521-AR) and by amending US$20 million from the Provincial
Development Project (Loan 3280-AR). During the execution of the Flood Rehabilitation Project,
SUCCE contracted several studies on the integrated management of the alluvial basins of the
Parana, Paraguay, and Uruguay. As a result from these studies undertaken, the Flood Protection
Project (Loan 4117-AR) was defined and prepared to further enhance protection of the provinces
located in the littoral region. In order to achieve this greater protection, both structural and non-
structural measures were incorporated into project design.
14.   Current government response. The Federal Government, through assessments undertaken
by the provinces, has developed a plan to mitigate current and forecast disasters through: (i) a
protection and rehabilitation phase for the northwestern provinces (Salta, Jujuy, Tucuman,
Santiago del Estero, Catamarca, and La Rioja) that are expected to be affected in March-June
1998; and (ii) a rehabilitation phase for the littoral provinces (Misiones, Formosa, El Chaco,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Santa Fe, and Buenos Aires) of the Parana basin already affected. The
protection phase is set to be implemented in anticipation of El Niuo, and the rehabilitation phase
once El Nino has occurred. Criteria to define the arrival and severity of El Nio are included in
the Project Operational Manual (POM). Authorities from the Government of Argentina have
requested assistance from the Bank in further defining and preparing of such a plan, along with
help to meet the identified requirements for each phase. Based on the preparation done by the
provinces and the Central Government of Argentina, the Bank has responded in a "fast track"
mode to assist with the implementation of this strategy.
15.   Mobilization of other sources. While design and preparation of the proposed loan
develops, there has been an effort to respond immediately to the flooding in the littoral provinces,
along the Uruguay River, and the possible consequences of El Nino in the northwestern
provinces. The Government of Argentina has taken actions to identify financial resources to
address the current emergency in both geographic regions. The Ministry of Interior, through the
Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias (SAFP), analyzed all Bank-financed projects
and the possibility of reallocating funds from those projects that are linked to provincial
development in the mentioned regions. Further actions on connunication and coordination
among governments and how to prepare for the impact of El Niio in each region were agreed on
between the Federal and provincial authorities over the course of several meetings and seminars
(Appendix 4) held since August of 1997. In these meetings, the SUPCEs and the provincial
Department of Hydraulics were given the responsibility of communication of the El Niflo event to
the public at the subnational level, while at the national level the Department of National Civil
Protection would be responsible.
16.   The Bank, in response to the Government's initial requests for assistance, immediately
identified approximately US$118 million of uncommitted funds from existing loans that could be
quickly reallocated to provide an immediate source of funding for emergency works. This



-5-
financing will satisfy current demands within the Parana basin, particularly on the Uruguay River
and its basin. The actions taken to date are the following:
(i) Last September the Bank extended the closing date of the Flood Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 3521-AR) in order to allow for the use of US$2.0 million of remaining funds to purchase
pumping equipment required to protect the city of Resistencia, Chaco (population 250,000).
(ii) The Bank has informned the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM), cofinancier of the
recently effective Flood Protection Project, on the proposed adjustment that would speed up
implementation of about US$90.0 million in flood protection investments in the Parana basin.
The Bank also intends to include in the amendment an additional US$11.0 million of identified
drainage and protection works for several cities along the Uruguay River (this change to Loan
4117-AR requires consultation with JEXIM). JEXIM informed the Bank that they were notified
of the situation and await an official request from the GoA.
(iii) The Provincial Development Project I (Loan 3280-AR) is being amended to reallocate
US$14.0 million to finance works in the littoral and northwestern provinces.
17.   Although funds have been identified, certain provincial governments face such situations
that they had to declare states of emergencies to place into motion mechanisms that allow for
better management of disaster relief As of July 1, 1997, the GoA acknowledged the signs of the
El Niiio phenomenon in the country and the severe consequences it implies. Three of the littoral
provinces (as of print date) have declared a state of emergency: (i) the Province of Chaco on
October 15, 1997 (Decree 2246-97); (ii) the Province of Corrientes on October 29, 1997, for a
period of one year (Decree 4329-97); and (iii) the Province of Entre Rios on November 11, 1997,
declaring that the state emergency began on August 31, 1997 (Decree 4060-97). More provinces
are expected to declare states of emergency as the elevated river flows move south into the delta
provinces.
C. Lessons Learned from Previous Projects
18.   The main lesson is that physical rehabilitation alone is not adequate to reduce the risk of
future damage and thus sustain the benefits of the project, as well as to safeguard the people and
the communities at risk. Therefore, a combination of structural and non-structural measures must
be taken. Activities should be developed and coordinated, with the capacity to manage
emergencies at the provincial and local levels. The successful progress made in the Flood
Rehabilitation Project can be replicated by applying the following principles: (i) using investments
that are simple and easy to implement; (ii) designing projects to be flexible and not over-specified,
with the design being part of an ongoing process; (iii) encouraging participation of interested
provinces; (iv) maintaining highly competent local executing units with the capacity to deal with
emergencies; and (v) retaining the flexibility to shift funds among eligible provinces.
D. Rationale for Bank Assistance
19.   Given the scientific community's forecast of a potentially damaging El Nifio event, the
Bank's underlying purpose in Argentina is to help keep the affected regions on an economic and



-6-
social development track through a systematic and cost-effective protection and rehabilitation
program. The experience gained from the Flood Rehabilitation Project makes the Bank uniquely
qualified, in the Government's view, to guide another emergency assistance program. In addition,
the investments required to carry out this program are unlikely to be mobilized from the private
sector.
20.   The Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS), which was discussed at the Board on May
15, 1997, aims to: (a) enhance social development, including poverty alleviation and human
resource development; (b) improve the performance and institutional capacity of government,
particularly subnational govermnents, to deliver key social, infrastructure and environmental
services; and (c) make successful structural reforms, including enhancement of governance
through institution building. Although the proposed emergency assistance operation was not
included in the CAS, it fully supports CAS objectives. It would advance the badly required
infrastructure base in the flood-prone areas and further enhance the provinces' capacity to manage
future emergencies. This ability is especially important in the flood-affected areas because of their
economic importance and their connection to MERCOSUR. Minimizing social and economic
disruption is critical to a long-term strategy of economic growth and poverty alleviation. The
project will have its greatest impact on the poorer northwestern provinces.
II. The Project
A. Objective
21.   The objective of the proposed project is to help the GoA's strategy to finance the
development and implementation of physical and institutional actions to address the impact of the
El Niuo phenomenon in the: (i) northwestern provinces of: Catamarca; Jujuy; La Rioja; Salta;
Santiago del Estero; Tucuman; and the Cuyo provinces of Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis; and
(ii) seven littoral provinces of Buenos Aires, El Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa,
Misiones, and Santa Fe through additional works above and beyond the Flood Protection Project.
The specific project activities include assisting in the minimizing of loss or damage by way of
protection actions and the rehabilitation of infrastructure and related services to their existing
state prior to the emergency. An additional objective is to strengthen institutions in the
northwestern provinces to deal with flood emergencies.
B. Preparation
22.   Based on the Government's request for assistance to rehabilitate the damaged
infrastructure of the littoral provinces and to protect and rehabilitate (rehabilitation circa June/July
1998) infrastructure in the northwestern provinces, key members of SUCCE (Appendix 5) came
to Washington from November 13-24, 1997 to undertake the identification an preparation of a
possible emergency assistance loan. During SUCCE's mission to the Bank's headquarters,
identification, preparation and assessment of the adequacy of the existing institutional capacity for
dealing with flood emergencies and of works to be executed under the proposed loan took place.
The identification of works were based on the official requests from afflicted provinces and



-7-
provinces expected to be impacted by El Nifno (Appendix 6). SUTCCE's familiarity with the state
of condition of the infrastructure in the region, due to participating in numerous missions in the
early months of 1997, to identify and evaluate damages incurred from recurring torrential rainfall,
facilitated understanding the required needs. Only the works considered to have the highest
priority were included in the emergency assistance loan and in the mobilization of financial
resources from existing loans (Appendix 6). Given the numerous amounts of works identified,
not all of the demand could be addressed within this emergency loan and the modification of the
existing loans. Thus, in following the Government's strategy in the northwestern region, it was
mentioned the identification of a subsequent operation in order to further carry out flood
forecasting and prevention capabilities to manage the impact of severe flooding in the region (to
be prepared at a later date). Beyond November 24, 1997, the chief executive officer and the
SUCCE counsel remained in Washington to carry out the preparation of legal documents and
provide additional input in the preparation of Bank documents. Negotiations took place from
December 9-11, 1997.
C. Description.
23.   The proposed project is based on the Bank's effort to assist countries which are expected
to be affected by El Niflo. The project is designed with two geographical components, one for the
northwestern provinces and one for the seven participating littoral provinces of the Parana basin.
A third component is included to address the incremental strengthening of SUCCE's
administrative and technical capacity to coordinate the implementation of the Project, including its
capacity to carry out project account audits. Given that the Loan would be made prior to the full
impacts of the aftermath of the El Nifno event, the proposed operation is designed to be
implemented in two distinct phases: (a) a protection phase of about 12 months for the
northwestern provinces; and (b) a rehabilitation phase for both geographic regions, estimated to
require up to three years. Eligibility criteria for investments under each phase will be included in
the Project Operational Manual (POM). In addition, the project includes for the northwestern
provinces a capacity-building (establishment of SUPCE and civil defense strengthening) sub-
component to manage flood emergencies and a small scale housing sub-component. There is no
provincial institutional capacity investment sub-component for the littoral provinces because of
the current institutional mechanism placed into existence from the Flood Rehabilitation and Flood
Protection Projects. Detail project description is outlined in Appendix 7.
24. Protection works (US$10.0 million) for northwest region. This phase will finance
strengthening and maintenance measures in the northwestern provinces of key river defense
components, such as levees, embankment protection, channel bed cleaning and debris removal
actions, along with the construction of primary drainage canals. The works can be viewed in
terms of controlling waters originating from outside the urban zone while controlling and
channeling water originating within the protected urban zone to outside. Transport infrastructure
will be addressed through strengthening of bridges and adjacent road embankments from the
scouring affects of bottlenecked waters. The inclusion of this phase is to take a pro-active
approach to placing investments in high risk locations prior to the expected heavy rainfall, so as to
lessen the economic and social disruption of the La Nifia event.



-8-
25.   Rehabilitation works (US$38.2 million) for both regions. Rehabilitation works will need
to be undertaken immediately in the littoral provinces, in particular those provinces located along
the Uruguay River and in rural provincial interior locations. While the rehabilitation works to be
done in the northwestern provinces can not be fully ascertained until approximately June 1998.
These works may vary in magnitude, depending on the geographical impact of El Nifno and
whether the protection works were executed in locations in which the most amount of damaged
was avoided. Nevertheless, the rehabilitation of infrastructure includes: (i) health and education
facilities; (ii) transport infrastructure, specifically bridges; (iii) river defenses, river training
construction; (iv) channel clean-up; (v) water supply and sewerage (northwest only); and (vi)
drainage networks. Though the rehabilitation works to be financed for the northwestern
provinces will not be known with certainty until after June 1998, all rehabilitation works for
financing under the Bank project must be identified and presented to the Bank no later than 24
months after the effectiveness date of the project (uncommitted funds after 24 months will be
canceled). The POM will include indicators which establish the criteria for when a major weather
event has occurred and thus triggering the eligibility for Bank financing of the necessary
rehabilitation works. The rehabilitation phase of the project will be addressed in ongoing basis
during scheduled yearly Bank full supervision missions.
26.   Technical Assistance (US$9.9 million). Technical assistance (TA) for the proposed
project will be essentially for the northwestern provinces, except for: (i) the engineering and
supervision of works to be carried out in the littoral component (US$666,000); and (ii) the
strengthening of SUCCE's administrative and technical capacity (US$450,000), including project
accounts auditing (US$400,000), which will both be cost shared by all participating provinces.
Nhile TA for the littoral provinces in terms of regional studies, flood warning systems, civil
defense capacity and others were defined in the Flood Protection Project and thus will be funded
through that loan.
27.   The TA sub-component for the northwest encompasses many of the items covered for the
littoral provinces under the ongoing project, which are: (i) the establishment of a SUPCE in each
participating province and its institutional strengthening (US$3.6 million); (ii) civil defense
strengthening capacity (US$1.8 million) through training and development of a provincial
emergency plan, acquisition of communication equipment and flood forecasting technology (all
but acquisition of equipment to be undertaken by SUCCE); (iii) housing technical assistance
(US$ 186,000); (iv) a regional environmental study (US$2.1 million) to be integrated with the
regional flood-risk mapping, undertaken by SUCCE (environmental assessment of the whole
region and recommended necessary measures to reduce the impact of flood protection actions,
especially in those zones where periodic floodings affect sensitive ecosystems, TOR guidelines-
Appendix 8); and (v) basic and detailed engineering designs and engineering supervision during
construction (US$656,000).
28.   The TA assistance is fundamental to the establishment of a long-term strategy in flood
management coordination. The regional flood-risk study will delineate within basins of the
northwest the basic notion of where defense investments should be located and where new
development should occur. In order to carry out the institutional strengthening through the
creation of a SUPCE and the strengthening of civil defense capacity, an estimated 1,500 man-



-9-
months will be required for three years, or roughly the contracting of six to seven individuals per
year for each province in the northwestern component.
29.   Housing (US$1.9 million). This sub-component has been assigned to serve as a
mechanism for institutional capacity building to the newly created SUPCEs of the northwestern
provinces. Given that the housing process is being introduced, each new SUPCE will be
designated only 50 housing units and will be implemented with the guidance of SUCCE, which
successfully supervised the execution of more than 5,800 housing units under the Flood
Rehabilitation Project.
30.   The basic is that a voluntary self-construction housing system will be provided for low-
income families located in areas highly vulnerable to floods and/or to those families whom have
had their dwelling severely damaged or destroyed by the flooding in the northwestern provinces.
Their new houses would be constructed in higher areas close to their present sites or in their
present sites with elevated foundations, if possible, to minimize dislocation, The housing units
would be designed based on the same criteria established in the Flood Protection Project. The
housing units would be 43 in2, with two bedrooms, a multi-use room, a shaded area and water
and drainage installations for the kitchen and bathroom. The cost for each unit would be about
US$6,200.
D. Cost
31.   The total cost of the prevention and rehabilitation phases for the proposed project is
estimated to be US$60.0 million, of which a vast majority would be local expenditures. Costs are
expressed in November 1997 prices and are based on experience with the previous two projects
(Loan 3521-AR and 4117-AR) and other similar projects in the area. Of the US$60.0 million,
US$35.0 would be initially allocated to the northwestern provinces and US$25.0 to the littoral
provinces. Of the US$35.0 million for the northwestern provinces, the flood prevention phase is
estimated to be US$15.0 million and the rehabilitation is estimated to be US$20.0 million. The
initial US$25.0 million allocation for the littoral provinces is designated towards rehabilitation.
Physical and price contingencies calculations came out to be about 10.9 percent of the total cost
of goods and works, collectively, for the project. Contingencies were dependent upon the
geographical region in which the goods were bought and the location of where the works were
executed. A summary of the project costs is presented in the Table 1 of Appendix 9. All costs
are expressed in US dollars because of the parity between the dollar and the peso, as established
in the Borrower's Convertibility Law (No. 23928 of April 1991).
E. Financing
32.   The Bank will finance at most 70 percent of the total project cost net of duties and taxes,
representing US$42.0 million of the total US$60.0 million. The remaining US$18.0 million will
be financed by the participating provinces, with no contribution envisage from the GoA. Due to
the emergency nature of the project, 20 percent of the total Bank financing (US$8.0 million) will
be provided for the retroactive financing of expenditures made after July 1, 1997, and in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Table 2 of Appendix 9 illustrates the counterpart
funding requirements.



-10-
33.   The Bank loan would be made to the Argentine Republic. During appraisal, the
Government indicated its preference for US-dollar single currency loan repayable over 15 years,
including a five year grace period, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for
US dollar single currency loans. This was confirmed at negotiations. Proceeds of the loan would
be onlent to provincial governments eligible under this loan with the same terms and conditions as
Bank lending to the Argentine Republic. Provinces would assume the foreign exchange risk and
would guarantee repayment with their revenue-sharing funds and each participating province
would pay loan commitment fees.
F. Environment
34.   Environmental management procedures to be used during execution of the emergency
loan are the same as those established in the Flood Protection Project. With minor adjustments,
the existing environmental assessment capacity within SUCCE can provide the quality of scoping,
screening, environmental and social assessment, and supervision of works as needed.
Furthermore, with the understanding that all works involve the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure or the protection from floods, no notable negative impacts are expected. In fact,
continuing with the best-practice approach of the ongoing Flood Protection Project, the works
would be revised from an environmental point of view to: (i) guarantee protection of existing
infrastructure and of the non-expansion of urban development into high-risk zones; (ii) generate
minimal interference in the natural process of the floodings; and (iii) produce a minimal effect on
the sensitive ecosystems of the regions. All sub-projects will comply with these conditions. In
parallel, the design of systems will be subject to an existing Environmental Manual (prepared
under the Flood Protection Project), which mitigates the environmental risks from the
construction of works. This manual, developed for the littoral provinces, will also be used in the
participating provinces of the Northwest. In parallel, during the execution of the proposed
project, a regional environmental assessment of the Uruguay River will be executed along the
same lines as that for the Parani River, through the Flood Protection Project (Loan 4117-AR). In
relation to the works in the northwestern provinces, a similar regional study will be conducted for
the designated long-term activities, including a full environmental analysis for selected basins in
the region.
G. Risks
35.   The risk of a lack of counterpart funding (CPF) is commonly associated with poor project
performance. This risk has been reduced since provincial counterpart funding required for
projects, which are co-financed by multilateral lending institutions, will now be guaranteed
through an agreement signed on November 24, 1997, between the Ministry of Interior and the
Asociacion de Bancos Ptblicosy Privados de Provincia de la Repuiblica Argentina (Association
of Provincial Public and Private Banks of the Argentine Republic).
36.   Another principal risk of this emergency assistance operation is related to the uncertainty
of the 1997-98 El Nifno in terms of its intensity and its precise geographic impact. Other risks
associated with the proposed project are weak institutional capacity in the northwestern provinces
and the time delays to obtain provincial debt law. All these mentioned risks are acceptable given
the high benefits such a proposed project can deliver to the populations of stricken areas.



-1 1-
IIL Project Implementation
A. Arrangements
37.   Project implementation and management would be based on the successful experience
acquired during the execution of the Flood Rehabilitation Project and Flood Protection Project in
the littoral provinces. This experience is based on the successful SUCCE-SUPCE structure,
which includes a well-established flow of information, function, and composition (staff and
responsibilities).
38.   SUCCE, under the Unidad Ejecutora Central (UEC) would remain within the boundary
of the Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias (SAFP) and would continue to be
responsible for the general administration of the project, including providing orientation and
technical assistance to the provinces (either directly or through the POM) for the preparation of
the project, and for all aspects related to the preparation, approval, and acquisition of the
subprojects. Likewise, SUCCE would contract the execution of the general institutional
development actions. SUCCE would report and obtain Bank approval in all matters related to
acquisition and disbursement, and SUCCE would continue providing the needed coordination
between the proposed project and other sectorial projects.
39.   Using the existing organizational framework, SUCCE would continue to be headed by the
chief executive, assisted by a team of consultants (subject to Bank prior review) in the project's
several infrastructure sectors. As described in the project description, the SUCCE team from the
ongoing Flood Protection Project would be increased slightly to address the additional demand
for project administration and technical assistance. An individual consultant would continue to
act as General Supervisor, with the responsibility of monitoring the project independently and
reporting to the SAFP.
40.   At the provincial level, the participating provinces would implement the project through a
SUPCE, which has already been established for the littoral provinces. The SUPCEs would then
have the responsibility for the formulation, execution, inspection, and administrative management
of the project at the provincial level. The SUPCEs would also be responsible for the
procurement, contracting and submission of disbursements, which are all subject to review by
SUCCE. A POM, to be modified from the Flood Protection Project (Appendix 10) and agreed,
will provide guidance and establish standards for all aspects of project implementation.
Agreement has also been reached on project performance indicators (Paragraph 62).
B. Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
41.   The eligibility criteria for the rehabilitation phase are: (i) affected locations must be set
within eligible provinces; (ii) the infrastructure must have been damaged by the El Nifio-related
floods, identified between July 1, 1997 and December 31, 1998; (iii) acceptable technical,
economic, and environmental analysis of subprojects must be conducted, according to criteria
included in the POM; and (iv) a fully staffed SUPCE must be established, as laid out in the POM.



-12-
42.   Rehabilitation. To the extent possible, determining whether an area within the project's
boundaries has been affected by the El Nifio/La Nifia phenomenon (as stipulated in item (ii) of
paragraph 62) will be done using a hydrometerological indicator, if surpassed will trigger the
rehabilitation investments to be made. The following mechanism is still being considered and the
final agreed on indicator, its methodology, and its approach to measuring will be included in the
POM. At the moment, there is one indicator with two sets of thresholds, one for each geographic
region or component of the project. For the northwestern provinces a 24-hour rainfall event of a
probability of two percent per year (50-year rainfall) would be the trigger; while for the littoral
provinces a 24-hour rainfall event of a probability of one percent per year (100-year rainfall)
would be the trigger, which has already occurred. A lower restriction is in place for the
northwestern provinces because they lack previous flood-defense infrastructure investments. The
rainfall events should be observed at several strategically located rain gauges, which have an
adequate record database for at least the past 10 years. When one of the selected gauges for the
sub-basin in question records an amnount of rainfall that exceeds the threshold probability, then this
triggers the rehabilitation phase. Or alternatively, using the same identified gauges, when the
average cumulative rainfall is exceeded by a determined percentage over a designated time period,
then this would trigger the rehabilitation phase.
43.   Protection. Prevention works in the northwest provinces will be implemented regardless
of the impact of El Nifio. Thus their criteria for eligibility are items (i), (iii), and (iv) mentioned in
paragraph 41. Flood protection works (rehabilitation, too) are to be designed so as to avoid
economic damage (possible design criteria for the works are outlined in Appendix 11).
44.   Housing. Social workers from the municipalities would visit applicants and verify that
they met the program criteria. All beneficiaries would be required to sign a legal document
stating, among other things, that they (all relevant family members): lived on the site prior to the
floods; they owned the unit that was destroyed; the unit was their only residence and they have no
other property; they have no savings or other resources to rebuild the unit on their own; and they
plan to live in the area for at least three years. If the land on which they plan to build belongs to
someone else, the beneficiaries must provide signed approval from the owner allowing them to
use the land for at least three years or establish that they have occupied the land for at least the
past five years; agree to use the voucher as stipulated and to comply with all of its conditions and
requirements; agree to provide the labor needed to assemble their units; and agree to follow
instructions of the field technicians to ensure that the units are constructed in accordance with
safety requirements. Beneficiaries would also affirm their understanding that if they make any
false declaration or misuse the material received, they will be subject to judicial proceedings and
will have to make full restitution if found guilty. Beneficiaries who receive assistance through the
voucher program would not be eligible for any additional complementary and/or concessionary
assistance from the government for the units received.
45.   Provincial Criteria. In order to maintain the program's designed flexibility throughout
the implementation period, the following criteria would also be outlined in the POM that would
allow reassignment of onlent funds from province to province, pursuant to an understanding
between the central and provincial governments:



-13-
(i) The northwestern provinces would have 12 months to put into effect a provincial debt
law. If such a debt law is not in place, or a lower-than-expected debt law is passed, then the
remaining designated funds may be reallocated to other eligible provinces.
(ii) Each participating littoral province has six months to put into effect its debt law,
otherwise the designated funds that it was unable to absorb may be reallocated to other littoral
provinces in the following six months. One year after effectiveness, all participating provinces
would be eligible to absorb the additional funds, given their financial capacity.
(iii) All funds that are not committed after 24 months from effectiveness may be canceled
by the Borrower.
C. Project Supervision and Review
46.   Bank project supervision is designed to be streamlined because of SUCCE's experience in
the implementation and supervision of the Flood Rehabilitation Project and Flood Protection
Project, and because the nature of the civil works are short-term (24 months). In addition, Bank
supervision missions will coincide with the supervision of the Flood Protection Project, with the
first review being conducted during the first trimester of 1999, or one year and after thirty days
after the effective date of the loan. This review would consider: (i) the commitment of each
participating province to the project by enacting the corresponding debt law; (ii) compliance of
each province with counterpart funding obligations; (iii) the specific rehabilitation subprojects in
each province; and (iv) the amount of the loan to be onlent to one or more eligible provinces. A
second review would be held in the first trimester of 2000. This second review would consider:
(i) compliance of each province with their counterpart funding obligations; and (ii) establishment
of the amount of the loan to be onlent to one or more eligible provinces. A third annual review
would continue to cover these topics, in addition to the preparing the Project Completion Report.
Appendix 12 illustrates the proposed timetable and inputs required for appropriate supervision.
D. Procurement
47.   Procurement arrangements and planning would be carried out )y SUCCE and the
SUPCEs of the participating provinces using similar arrangements identified in the POM of the
Flood Protection Project, yet modified for quick procurement action and to also reflect the new
Bank Guidelines for consultants.
48.   Procurement arrangements and thresholds have been determined considering flexibility and
previous experience with the Flood Rehabilitation Project. Because most of the rehabilitation
works to be carried out will be relatively in small size and executed in scattered locations
throughout both regions, contracts for civil works and goods would not be suitable for
procurement through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and thus would be awarded
primarily through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and three price quotation procedures
acceptable to the Bank. In any event, many international firms are represented in Argentina and
would be eligible to participate in the bidding processes. Nevertheless, ICB documents, if used,



-14-
will comply with the Bank's standard bidding documents. The NCB documents to be used are
those from the Flood Rehabilitation Loan, which were approved by the Bank in 1992.
49.   SUCCE would review all procurement procedure documents, bid evaluations, and
contract awards to ensure that the agreed procurement procedures were properly implemented.
Because the emergency nature of the project, and because NCB and price quotation contracts
would be too small and numerous for effective prior review by the Bank, such a review would be
delegated to SUCCE. But, to ensure that procurement procedures are satisfactory to the Bank,
the Bank would do a prior review of the first two NCB and price quotation contracts per calendar
year. In addition, the Bank would review the remaining NCB procurement procedures, as well as
the price quotation and direct contracting, on a ex-post basis by sampling. If it were determined
that procurement did not follow agreed procedures, then no expenditures for such items would be
financed out of the loan proceeds, and the Bank would cancel the corresponding loan amount.
The Special Account would be reimbursed by the Borrower.
50.   Civil Works. Works estimated to cost more than US$5.0 million would be contracted
through ICB, while contracts estimated to cost less than US$5.0 million (estimated 11 contracts)
would be contracted through NCB, not to exceed an aggregate US$10.5 million. Three price
quotations will be allowed for contracts estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million (an estimated
105 contracts), up to an aggregate amount of US$35.0 million. Direct contracting procedures
will be used (in accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines) for very small
repairs estimated to cost less than US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Force account will not be financed by the Bank under the proposed loan.
51.   Goods. Goods estimated to cost more than US$1.0 million will be contracted through
ICB, using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Goods that cost between US$500,000 and
US$1.0 million will be procured through the NCB process, and goods estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 through shopping procedures (estimated 13 contracts) on the basis of at least three
price quotations, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million and US$2.2 million, respectively.
52.   Direct purchase of goods will be permitted through contracts under US$100,000 for such
items as construction equipment rental and goods related to emergency actions that the Borrower
used during the construction.
53.   Housing Materials. Materials for a small-scale housing program (approximately 300
units) for the northwestern provinces will be acquired in the same fashion as those used in the
Flood Rehabilitation Project and the Flood Protection Project. The SUPCEs will separate the
costs of construction materials in no more than four or five corresponding vouchers for the
principle stages of construction. Immediately, the SUPCEs will select the suppliers for the
corresponding materials by way of a bidding process based on estimates from at least three
different certified local suppliers. Based on the lowest bid received, all suppliers that decide to
accept this lowest price would sign a contract to supply materials at that price. The beneficiaries
are free to select any of the qualified suppliers contracted by the SUPCEs. This system has been
very successful in the previously mentioned projects, in which 5,820 new homes were built in
approximately 100 different locations with no reported cases of abuse or lack of control.



-15-
54.   Consultant Services. Consulting services will be contracted based on the following
criteria: (i) contracts estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (approximately US$1.0 million)
would be contracted using Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS); (ii) for contracts estimated
under US$200,000 (approximately US$2.9 million) would be contracted using Least Cost
Selection (LCS); and (iii) contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 (approximately US$6.0
million) would be contracted to individual consultants, according to Bank Guidelines. All
documents to select and contract consultants would be approved by the Bank.
E. Disbursement
55.   As confirmed by the Government, the loan will be a LIBOR-based single-currency loan in
U.S. dollars up to an amount of US$42.0 million. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed
against eligible expenditures in the following percentages: 62 percent of expenditures against civil
works; 81 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for materials, equipment and
vehicles; 90 percent of expenditures for housing materials; and 100 percent of expenditures for
consultants and training. The Bank will disburse against the Statement of Expenditures for all
contracts below the procurement prior review limit. Given the availability of a Special Account
(SA), the minimum withdrawal application for direct payment or special commitment from the
Loan Account would be 20 percent of the initial deposit to the SA. The Closing Date for this
Loan is September 30, 2001.
56.   The Government will establish a Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$4.0 million to facilitate
disbursements for urgent emergency reconstruction needs. But the initial deposit will be limited
to US$2.0 million until the disbursed amount from the Loan Account has reached US$6.0 million.
The Special Account will be replenished by submitting monthly withdrawal applications to the
Bank.
F. Retroactive Financing
57.   So that the Government will be able to undertake preventive works in a timely fashion, the
proposed emergency operation will finance retroactively up to US$8.0 million in expenditures
incurred before loan signing, but after July 1, 1997, the date of declaration of the El Ninio
emergency in Argentina.
G. Financial Managing and Auditing
58.   SUCCE has a defined financial management system (FMS) that meets the criteria
established by the Bank (OP/BP 10.02) that ensures the quality and timely delivery of all
information regarding project resources and expenditures (Appendix 13). Confirmation of the
FMS is assured because it is outlined in the POM, and the POM is a condition to effectiveness.
Audits of the special account of the project account of SUCCE and of the project accounts of the
participating provinces would be performed by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
under terms of reference that is also satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports would be
delivered to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit of



-16-
project accounts would include separate opinions on, among others: (i) sources and uses of
account funds; and (ii) statement of expenditures (SOEs).
H. Reporting
59.   SUCCE and the SUPCEs would keep adequate records as detailed in the POM and as
established by the Bank's operational manual in terms of financial management and internal
control (Appendix 13). Successful implementation of project objectives also require intensive
monitoring of actual performance by both SUCCE and the Bank. To facilitate this supervision,
SUCCE will prepare for the Bank a progress report on project execution of such scope and detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, no later than April 30, August 31, and December 31 of each
year, in parallel with the due date of the Flood Protection Project reports. The terms of reference
for these reports would be basically the same as that for the Flood Protection Project. SUCCE
would use the monitoring indicators described in paragraph 62 to evaluate the overall
performance of the project.
60.   Several lessons of experience from previous projects have been incorporated to streamline
project execution. To increase the cost-effectiveness of review of technical proposals and
procurement documents, thresholds for prior review by SUCCE and the Bank were carefully
reviewed during negotiations and will be included in the revised POM. The thresholds for prior
review were done so as to balance cost with risk and importance of quick contracting due to time
restraints in the nature of the emergency assistance loan. In addition, procedures for review of
procurement documents were streamlined, and all provinces will be required to use standard
procurement documents approved by the Bank, copies of which are to be included in the POM.
To improve subproject management, the POM will require that all subproject proposals contain a
timetable for all main stages of execution in an agreed format, as done so for the Flood Protection
Project. These timetables are expected to provide SUCCE with more reliable information,
thereby permitting more adequate projections needed to plan subproject review.
61.   Timely implementation depends on adequate financial resources being available when
needed and on good performance of the local implementation units (SUCCE, SUPCEs). For this
reason full supervision missions three months after the conclusion of each fiscal year (same as
calendar year) to review project progress and assess its implementation in each province will be
carried out. All three proposed review missions will be very important for assessing uncommitted
funds, reallocation of funds, lists of identified works for financing, and whether a province has
been affected by the El Niflo event, as determined by the established eligibility criteria. In
addition, partial supervision missions (at least two per year) will be carried out through the course
of project implementation to ensure that project advancement is continuing at a satisfactory pace.
Supervision inputs are shown in Appendix 12.
L Monitoring, Impact and Performance Indicators
62.   Two types of monitoring indicators were established to track the advancement of the
project implementation: impact and performance indicators. The impact indicators measure: (i)
the outcome of the project in terms of the population that benefited; (ii) the effectiveness of the
executed works by comparing the performance of the constructed defenses during the annual



-17-
flood period to their forecast performance; and (iii) the population attended by the housing
program and the rehabilitation of hospitals and health centers. Performance indicators are used to
measure the physical and institutional advancement of the project. These indicators are shown in
table 1 of Appendix 14.
J. Project Operational Manual
63.   The Project Operational Manual is a key implementation instrument for project success
and is a requirement for effectiveness. The new POM draws from the POMs of the Flood
Rehabilitation Project and Flood Protection Project. Appendix 10 highlights some of the main
topics to be covered in the POM.
IV. Agreements
64.   Effectiveness. To expedite the project initiation, the Federal Government and the
participating provinces have already completed several important steps in the identification of
works to be executed. It was agreed that the following would be conditions of effectiveness: (i)
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and at least one
participating province; (ii) a SUPCE, as set forth in the POM, must be operational in a province
which has satisfactorily entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (iii) all action has been taken,
by each participating province that has in effect a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to permit that the
procurement procedures to be financed by the Loan be carried out in accordance with the
provisions set forth in the Loan Agreement and POM; and (iv) that the POM has been issued by
SAFP and is in effect.
65.   AdditionalAgreements. It was also agreed: (i) that the Bank would receive every four
months a progress report on the project; (ii) in April 1999, there would be the first mid-term
review of the project; and (iii) estimated amounts that may be onlent to provinces would be
stipulated in the POM and not in the Loan Agreement and that such funds can be reallocated
under the circumstances outlined in the Loan Agreement. In addition, the Borrower's
procurement and consultant selection plans will be in the POM. The Bank team indicated that
Bank management would consider the possibility of a subsequent loan to address a comprehensive
flood protection project in the northwest region of Argentina, if a request were made.



-18-
Appendix 1
Miscellaneous El Nifio Graphs, Maps and Tables
Graph 1
Multivariate ENSO Index for the 6
strongest historic El Nifio events vs. the current event
3            . .. ......I                                   I . . ..  l  -  .  .......  . .-I
2                    .j..,   7f                  Xi T                                   2
t 1 _ ..                ,                     ,,  ,B i A \ { 86187
*~~~~~~~,                   I  X                   ,A+\,                    i19 
.        I  ........................_... ...... ......
:2 -...                                                                            -2 6 &> 
.~~~~~~~~~ laXLw Volter naI Eeheul Timlih
.                        ~~~~~~~~~~NO&A CRES Climate Dicsostics C.Mtcr, Uniwsrsizy of Color.Ao .± Doulkr



I R                        ~~~~~~~~~-19-
IRINTERNATIONAL RESEARCH IN                                     S
FOR CLIMATE PREDICTION
EXPERIMENTAL CLIMATE FORECAST DivisJON
Map A October - December 1997
K601251151 
1B 0N 1A                                                  -
1112   141021 
Percentag l Ikelihood 0*
13013014013l41 
A b30eo13 ra30140i1al
900-                        131030°                      30
,~~~~~te  I I N                      I                I         I
Percentage likefhood ol:
B Below normWa rainfal
N Near-naT rainfall
A AbovenomMa rainfall
IRI is a cooperative agreement between NOAA Office of Global Programs, Lanont-Doherty Earth Observatory of
Columbia University and Scripps Institution of Oceanography/University of California, San Diego.
Mail: SIO * UCSD * 9500 Gilman Drive               La Jolla, California 92093.0235 * USA
Phone: (619) 534-1868                                            Fax: (619) 5348087



-20-
FOR CLIMATE PREDICTI-ON
EXPERIMENTAL CLIMATE FORECAST DIVIsION
Map B January - March 1998
14;01351275
25  35  40_III
10°N _ 0                 06020                                  3Q
30 2   35145130 
y20
3 z 
400 -                                       11  |51301|55]
50°           I                  13102I 
60°S I          I          I          I                    I 
. 90°W                             600                             30o
Key
|BINIAI
Percentage lklihood of:
B Below-nofnal rainfail
N Near-normal rainfall
A Above-normal rainfll
ERI isa cooperative areement between NOAA Ofce of Global Programs, Lamnont-Doherty Erwt. ObservatorY of
Columbia University and Scripps Institution of Oceanography/University of California, San Diego.
Mail: SIO * UCSD * 9500 Gilman Drive                       La Jolla, California 92093-0235 ' USA
Phone: (619) 534.1868                                                     Fax: (619) 534.8087



-21-
Table 1
Reported Number of Evacuees (November 24, 1997)
Province                    City                         Number of Evacuees
Entre Rios
Concordia                           7,431
Concepci6n del Uruguay              1,666
Col6n                                59
Federaci6n                            8
Gualeguaychui                         6
Zona de Isas                         24
Entre Rios Total                                                9,194
Corrientes
Alvear                               436
La Cruz                              103
Paso de los Libres                  1,559
Monte Caseros                        129
San Roque                            50
Gob. Martinez                        35
San Lorenzo                          35
Yapeyui                              61
Corrientes Total                                                2,408
Misiones
Posadas                              248
Misiones Total                                                   248
Chaco
Resistencia                          850
Chaco Total                                                      850
Grand Total                                                     12,500



-22-
Appendix 2
El Nifio and Parana/Paraguay River Basin Flooding Correlation
The shifts in rainfall patterns in the tropical Pacific disturb atmospheric circulation patterns
all over the globe. Because the weather patterns associated with El Niflo events can persist for
about a year, the anomalous weather conditions that can be experienced in those regions affected
by the phenomenon can also be long-lasting. The table below shows the close correspondence
between El Ninlo events and the occurrence of extra-ordinary floods which occur in the littoral
provinces of Argentina.
El Ninio Year        Year of Extraordinary
Floods Recorded'
1991                     1992
1986                     1987
1982                    1982-83
1976                     1977
1972                     1974
1965                    165-66
1963                     1963
1957                     1957
1953                     1954
1951                     1951
1939                     1939
1932                     1932
1930                     1931
1925                     1926
1923                     1923
1918                     1919
1913                     1913
1911                     1912
1904                     1905
1877                     1878
(World Bank LATEN Dissemination Note #5, September 1993)
Extraordinary flood years are years in which an extraordinary flood (i.e. 10-year flood) occurred at one or more of
the following sites: Juipa, Guaira, Posadas, Corrientes, Ladario, Porto Murtinho or Asunci6n.



-23-
Appendix 3
Report on Impacts of El Nifio in Argentina
Impacto del Fenomeno El Nifio-Oscilaci6n del Sur en la
Hidrologia de Algunas Regiones de la Repuiblica Argentina
Juan B. Valdds, Ph.D., P.E.
Consulting Hydrologist
2810 E. Plaza Encantada
Tucson AZ 85718
(520)299-8154 Voice/FAX



-24-
INDICES
FEN6MENO ENOS (EL NIRO-OSCILACION DEL SUR)
INTRODUCCI6N
IMPACTO DEL ENSO EN LA HIDROCLIMATOLOGIA DE REGIONES TROPICALES Y EXTRATROPICALES.
EMPACTO DEL FENOMENO ENOS EN LA REPUBLICA ARGENTINA
CUENCAS DEL PARANA, PARAGUAY Y URUGUAY
CUENCAS DEL NOR-OESTE ARGENTINO
CUENCAS DE CUYO
PRONOSTICO DEL FENOMENO ENOS PARA EL VERANO 1997-98 Y OTONO 1998
INTRODUCCI6N
PRON6STICOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS
PRON6STICOS DEL IMPACTO DEL EPisoDIo AcTuAL DEL FEN6MENO ENOS EN SUR AMERICA
COMENTARIOS FINALES SOBRE EL IMPACTO DEL FENOMENO ENSO EN LA REPUBLICA
ARGENTINA
REFERENCIAS
LISTA DE FIGURAS
FiGURA 1. CARACTERISTICAS PRINCIPALES DEL FENOMENO ENOS (NOAA, 1997)
FiouRA 2. IMPACTO DEL FEN6MENO ENOS EN LA HIDROCLIMATOLOGtA GLOBAL (NOAA, 1997)
FIGURA 3. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL RIO PARANA EN CORRIENTES COMO
FUNCI6N DE EPIsoDIoS CALIDOs, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS.
FIGuRA 4. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOS ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL RIO PARANA EN
CORRIENTES COMO FUNCI6N DE EPIsoDIos CALIDOs, NORMALES Y FRfoS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS EN LA ESTACION
DICIEMBRE-FEBRERO.
FIGURA 5. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL RIO BERMEJO EN PUERTO BERMEJO COMO
FUNCI6N DE EpisoDIos CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRioS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS.
FiouRA 6. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOS ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL Rio BERMEJO EN
PUERTO BERMEJO COMO FUNCI6N DE EPISODIOS CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FENOMENO ENOS EN LA
ESTACI6N DICIEMBRE-FEBRERO.
FiouRA 7. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL RIo ATUEL COMO FUNCI6N DE EPISODIOS
CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS.
FIGURA 8. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOS ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL RIO ATUEL COMO
FUNCI6N DE EPISODIOS CALIDOs, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS EN LA ESTACI6N DICIEMBRE-FEBRERO. .
FIGURA 9. COMPARACI6N DE 6 EVENTOS CALIDOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS CON EL EPISODIO CORRIENTE (NOAA-
CIRES, 1997)
FIGURA 10. PRON6STICO OFICIAL DEL NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE DE LOs EEUW DE LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS
DEL OCEANO PACfFICO TROPICAL (NINO 3.4) (NWS, 1997)



-25-
FIGURA 11. PRON6STICO EXPERIMENTAL DEL BUREAU OF METEOROLOGY RESEARCH CENTRE DE LAS TEMPERATURAS
MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACiFICO (Niro 3) (BMRC, 1997)
FIGURA 12. PRON6STICOS EXPERIMENTALES DEL CENTER FOR OCEAN-LAND-ATMOSPHERE STUDIES (KIRTMAN ET AL,
1997).
FIoURA 13. PRON6STICO DE LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACfFICO DEL NATIONAL CENTER FOR
ENVIRONMENTALPREDICTION, NCEP (1997)
FIGURA 14. PRON6STICO COMBINADO DE LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACiFICO MAYO-JUNIO 1998
(INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)
FIGURA 15. PRON6STICO DE PRECIPITACIONES EN AMERICA DEL SUR, OCTUBRE-DICIEMBRE 1997 (INTERNATIONAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)
FIGURA 16. PRON6STICO DE PRECIPITACIONES EN AMERICA DEL SUR, ENERO-MARZO 1998 (INTERNATIONAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)



FEN6MENO ENOS (EL NINO-OSCILACI6N DEL SUR)
INTRODUCCION
El fen6meno ENOS es una anomalia tanto atmosferica como oceanica en el Oceano Pacifico
Ecuatorial. En su fase calida esta caracterizada por el un extenso calentamiento en el Oceano
Pacifico Oriental que dura tres o mis estaciones. Acoplado con esta anomalia oceanica el
fen6meno Oscilaci6n del Sur es una amplia oscilaci6n interanual en la presi6n atmosferica de una
regi6n cercana al Norte de Australia y una en el Pacifico Central. El fen6meno ENOS constituye
la mayor variaci6n climatica de corto plazo y ha sido estudiada desde principios de siglo. La
Figura 1 da una descripci6n abreviada de las principales caracteristicas de este fenomeno.
El fen6meno ENOS de los anios 82-83, el mayor del siglo, fue tambien ampliamente observado
por medio de informaci6n satelitaria y de boyas oceanicas (National Research Council, 1994).
IMPACTO DEL ENSO ENLA HIDROCLImAATOLOGiA DE REGIONES TROPICALES Y
EXTRA TROPICALES.
El impacto del fen6meno ENOS a nivel en el evento 82-83 ha sido cuantificado en 2000 muertos
y mas de $13.000 millones de dMlares en perdidas a nivel mundial. La Figura 2 da una indicaci6n
global del impacto de un episodio calido del fen6meno ENOS (NOAA, 1997).
IMPACTO DEL FENOMENO ENOS EN LA REPUBLICA ARGENTINA
El fen6meno ENOS, tanto en su fase calida como fria, produce un impacto importante en la
hidroclimatologia de varias regiones en la Republica Argentina.
CUENCAS DEL PARAN4, PARAGUAY Y URUGUAY
La cuenca de los rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay son grandemente afectadas por los episodios
calidos y frios del fen6meno ENOS. En los uiltimos afios crecidas en estos rios han causado dafios
por arriba de $1000 millones de d6lares en cada oportunidad. Existen varios estudios en los cuales
se puede evaluar el impacto en la hidrometeorologia de la zona sur del Brasil, Paraguay y
nordeste Argentino. Uno de ellos es el estudio de Anderson y otros (1994) en el cual se determina
que, bajo un criterio regional, los afios con episodios calidos del fen6meno ENOS. El criterio
regional es que se produce, al menos en una de las 10 estaciones fluviom6tricas de estas cuencas,
un evento con periodo de recurrencia superior a los 10 afios.
Para ilustrar el impacto en los caudales de los rios de esta cuenca se realiz6 un estudio de las
probabilidades de excedencia de los caudales estacionales (tres meses: Diciembre-Febrero,
Marzo-Mayo, Junio-Agosto y Septiembre-Noviembre) del rio Parana en Corrientes, despues de la
confluencia con el rio Paraguay. El resultado de este analisis se presenta en la Figura 3. Este
analisis se hizo teniendo en cuenta que existe un episodio calido del ENOS durante la estaci6n
Diciembre 97-Febrero 98 y nide el impacto en los caudales en la misma estacion (DEF) hasta 3
estaciones de adelanto (SON). De la observaci6n de la misma se pueden hacer los siguientes
comentarios:



-27-
* Las probabilidades de excedencia de los caudales medios estacionales disminuyen durante
episodios calidos del fen6meno ENOS, es decir los caudales altos se hacen mas probables para
la misma estaci6n (Diciembre 97-Febrero 98), la estaci6n siguiente (Marzo-Mayo 98) y
continua por las otras dos estaciones.
* Debe recalcarse que las diferencias entre las probabilidades de excedencia de eventos calidos y
los otros se incrementan considerablemente para las probabilidades extremas.
Una forma altemativa es la de presentar las probabilidades de caudales por arriba de la normal
como una funci6n de episodios calidos y frios del fen6meno ENOS. Aunque esta es una
representaci6n mas simple requiere la definici6n a priori de que es un episodio por arriba o por
debajo de la normal de los caudales. Los resultados se presentan en la Figura 4. En este caso se
puede ver que la probabilidad de caudales por arriba de la normal se incrementan a cerca de un
50% para episodios calidos del fen6meno ENOS.
CUENCAS DEL NOR-OESTEARGENTINO
De acuerdo a la informaci6n disponible se hizo un analisis de los caudales medios estacionales del
rio Bermejo en Puerto Bermejo presentandose los resultados en las Figuras 5 y 6. Del analisis de
las curvas de excedencia de probabilidades se puede observar una correlaci6n positiva, es decir
episodios calidos hacen valores extremos mas probables en el rio Bermejo aunque las diferencias
no son tan marcadas como en el caso del rio Parani. Episodios calidos bajan ligeramente su
probabilidad a dos estaciones de adelanto en la Figura , poniendose alrededor del 30% notandose
un aumento significativo de la probabilidad de caudales normales (alrededor del 55%).
CUENCAS DE CUYO
Un analisis similar se llev6 a cabo en la cuenca del rio Atuel, en la provincia de Mendoza, como
una cuenca representativa de la zona de Cuyo. Los resultados se presentan en las Figuras 7 y 8.
Las curvas de excedencias marcan una correlaci6n positiva entre eventos calidos y la probabilidad
de caudales extremos, particularmente en los caudales de verano de la misma estaci6n (DEF).
Las probabilidades de eventos normales y humedos aumentan a valores parecidos, alrededor de
40% mientras que la probabilidad de eventos secos disminuye a aproximadamente el 18%.
PRONOSTICO DEL FENOMENO ENOS PARA EL VERANO 1997-98 Y OTONO 1998
INTRODUCCION
El corriente episodio calido del fen6meno ENOS tiene caracteristicas singulares con respecto a
los episodios anteriores, en cuanto a su intensidad y a su fecha de inicio. La Figura 9 hace una
comparaci6n de varios episodios calidos donde se puede observar la intensidad y la prematura
fecha de inicio del episodio actual (NOAA-CIRES, 1997).



-28-
Existe una considerable variedad de informaci6n sobre el corriente episodio calido del fen6meno
ENOS, tanto en mediciones de la situaci6n actual como en pron6sticos de su comportamiento en
el aiio 1998.
PRONOSTICOS DEL FENMENO ENOS
La mayoria de los pron6sticos del corriente episodio calido del fen6meno ENOS indican que las
temperaturas por arriba de la normal continuaran en el periodo Enero-Mayo 1998, produciendose
un descenso de las temperaturas hasta Ilegar a temperaturas por debajo de la normal a mediados
del anio 1998. Como ilustraci6n se presentan varios pron6sticos individuales de las temperaturas
promedios de la superficie del mar en la zona Nifno 3 provenientes del National Weather Service
de los EEUU (Figura 10), del Bureau of Meteorology Research Center (BMRC) (Figura 11) y
del Center for Ocean, Land and Atmosphere Studies (COLA) (Figura 12). Debe recalcarse que
algunos de estos pron6sticos solo se dan como valores experimentales por las agencias y se
-presentan en este informe para ilustrar las posibilidades de los modelos de pronostico del
fen6meno ENOS.
Tambien se incluyen los pron6sticos del National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP)
que da las temperaturas medias del mar para diferentes estaciones del aflo 1998 (Figura 13). En
todas estas figuras se puede apreciar la disminuci6n de la intensidad del episodio calido a
mediados del afno 1998. Finalmente el International Research Institute lleva a cabo combinaciones
de pron6sticos basados en el exito de pron6sticos anteriores (Figura 14). Como un ejemplo se da
el pron6stico combinado para el invierno, en el Hemisferio Sur, de las temperaturas medias del
Oceano Pacifico Tropical donde se puede ver, una vez mas, que el fen6meno esta entrando en una
fase fria.
PRONOSTICOS DEL IMPACTO DEL EPisoDIo ACTUAL DEL FEN6MENO ENOS ENSUR AMERIcA
El International Research Institute ha hecho unos pronosticos experimentales del impacto del
episodio corriente del fen6meno ENOS para los periodos Octubre-Diciembre 1997 y Enero-
Marzo 1998. Estos pron6sticos se presentan en las Figuras 15 y 16. Para la Repuiblica Argentina,
y en particular para la regi6n de la cuenca de los rios Parana, Paraguay y Uruguay, para el periodo
Octubre-Diciembre 1997 la probabilidad de precipitaciones por arriba de la normal estan en el
55% mientras que la probabilidad de precipitaciones por debajo de la normal solo es del 15%.
Para el periodo Enero-Marzo 1998 la probabilidad de precipitaciones por arriba de la normal esta
entre el 55% y el 45% para las regiones de las cuencas mencionadas.
Un analisis similar al caso de la cuenca del rio Parana se realizo para la zona del Nor-Oeste
Argentino. De la observaci6n de la Figura 15 (Octubre-Diciembre 1997) se puede ver que las
probabilidades de precipitaciones por debajo de la normal son superiores en la parte occidental del
NOA mientras que las probabilidades de precipitaciones por arriba de la normal son superiores en
la parte oriental de la regi6n.
Para el periodo siguiente (Enero-Marzo 1997, Figura 16) se puede observar que la zona de
interes esta generalmente afectada negativamente por episodios calidos, es decir las
probabilidades de precipitaciones por debajo de la normal estAn en un 60% para un sector de la
regi6n NOA, en un 35% para otro y en un 20% para otro.



-29-
El nivel de detalle de la informaci6n no permite hacer conclusiones con respecto a la zona del rio
Atuel.
COMENTARIOS FINALES SOBRE EL IMPACTO DEL FENOMENO ENSO EN LA
REPiJBLICA ARGENTINA
Este informe es un estudio preliminar y obviamente debe ser ampliado utilizando datos adicionales
de precipitaci6n y escorrentia en las zonas de interes. Debe enfatizarse, sin embargo, que la
confiabilidad de los pron6sticos del fen6meno ENOS, que Ilegan hasta 15 meses de adelanto,
tienen valor predictivo y pueden ser utilizados en pron6sticos hidroclimaticos, ver por ejemplo Liu
y otros (1997ab).



-30-
REFERENCIAS
Allan, R.; J. Lindesay y D. Parker, El Niflo Southern Oscillation and Climatic Variability,
CSIRO, 1996.
Anderson, R.J.; Da Franca Ribeiro dos Santos y R.L. Bras, "An Analysis of Flooding in the
Parana/Paraguay River Basin," The World Bank Latin American Technical Department, 1994.
Burkham, D.E., "Accuracy of Flood Mapping", Journal of Research, US Geological Survey,
6(4), 515-527, 1978.
Chow, V.T.; D. Maidment y L. Mays, Applied Hydrology, McGrawHill, 1988.
Marco, J.B.; "Flood Risk Mapping", en Coping with Floods, G. Rossi, N. Hanmangioglu y V.
Yevjevich, Editores, Kluwer Publishers, 1994.
National Research Council, Learning to Predict Climate Variations Associated with El Nifio and
the Southern Oscillation, 1994.
Interagency Floodplain Management Review Committee, Sharing the Challenge: Floodplain
Management into t he 21st Century, 1994
Liu, Z., J.B. Valdes y D. Entekhabi, "Merged Forecasts of Drought Index Anomalies along the
Gulf Coast in the US Using Multiple Precursors," Experimental Long-Lead Forecast Bulletin,
National Weather Service NCEP-CPC, 6(1), 1997a.
Liu, Z., J.B. Valdes and D. Entekhabi, "Merging and Error Analysis of Regional
Hydrometeorologic Anomaly Forecasts Conditioned on Climate Precursors," submitted to
Water Resources Research, 1997b.
Lord, W.B., "Flood Hazard Delineation: The One Percent Standard", Water Resources Update,
97, 36-39, 1995.



-31-
LISTA DE FIGURAS
FIGURA 1. CARACTERfSTICAS PRINCIPALES DEL FEN6MENO ENOS (NOAA, 1997)
FIGURA 2. IMPACTO DEL FENOMENO ENOS EN LA HIDROCLIMATOLOGIA GLOBAL (NOAA, 1997)
FIGURA 3. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL RiO PARANA EN
CORRENTES COMO FUNCI6N DE EPISODIOS CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRtOS DEL FENOMENO ENOS.
FIGURA 4. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOs ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL
Rio PARANA EN CORRENTES COMO FUNCION DE EPISODIOS CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL
FENOMENO ENOS EN LA ESTACION DICiEMBRE-FEBRERO.
FIGURA 5. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL RIO BERMEJO EN
PUERTO BERMEJO COMO FUNCION DE EPIsODIOS CALIDos, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FEN6MENO
ENOS.
FIGURA 6. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOS ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL
RiO BERMEJO EN PUERTO BERMEJO COMO FUNCION DE EPIsoDIos CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRios
DEL FENOMENO ENOS EN LA ESTACION DICIEMBRE-FEBRERO.
FIGURA 7. CURVA DE EXCEDENCIAS CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES EN EL Rio ATUEL COMO
FuNCI6N DE EPIsODIOS CALIDos, NORMALES Y FRiOS DEL FENOMENO ENOS.
FIGURA 8. PROBABILIDADES CONDICIONALES DE CAUDALES (DOS ESTACIONES DE ADELANTO) DEL
Rio ATUEL COMO FUNCION DE EPIsoDIos CALIDOS, NORMALES Y FRIOS DEL FEN6MENO ENOS
EN LA ESTACION DICIEMBRE-FEBRERO.
FIGURA 9. COMPARACION DE 6 EVENTOS CALIDOS DEL FENOMENO ENOS CON EL EPISODIO
CORRENTE (NOAA-CIRES, 1997)
FIGURA 10. PRON6STICO OFICIAL DEL NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE DE LOS EEUU DE LAS
TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCE-ANO PACfFICO TROPICAL (NINo 3.4) (NWS, 1997)
FIGURA 11. PRONOSTICO EXPERIMENTAL DEL BUREAU OF METEOROLOGY RESEARCH CENTRE DE
LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACIFICO (NINo 3) (BMRC, 1997)
FIGURA 12. PRON6STICOS EXPERIMENTALES DEL CENTER FOR OCEAN-LAND-ATMOSPHERE
STUDIES (KIRTMAN ET AL, 1997).
FIGURA 13. PRONOSTICO DE LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACIFICO DEL NATIONAL
CENTER FOR ENViRONMENTAL PREDICTION, NCEP (1997)
FIGURA 14. PRON6STICO COMBINADO DE LAS TEMPERATURAS MEDIAS DEL OCEANO PACIFICO
MAYO-JUNIO 1998 (INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)
FIGURA 15. PRON6STICO DE PRECIPITACIONES EN AMERICA DEL SUR, OCTUBRE-DcIEMBRE 1997
(INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)
FIGURA 16. PRoN6STIco DE PRECIPITACIONES EN AMERICA DEL SUR, ENERO-MARZO 1998
(INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE, 1997)



-32-
Normal Conditions
'O@E
El NWiio Conditions
4                  ~~~~~~~Increased
Convecdon
Equator _ far
120E                       80°W
Figura 1. Caracter(sticas principales del Fen6meflo ENO$ (NOAA, 1997)



-33-
Northern Hemisphere Summer
N~ l; '  Et
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~l'
2i0,
s _         -9i.-        2                 g          .  ^40 >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
wet               ~~~~~~~100
*        1                  ..                         X                             I 
EDtyI
00- -n3E 40   6     3 80- 1tO0- 120- 14100 160- 180- 66B't. 140a 1a0o  100  80-  60' 400  2o
Northern Hemisphere Winter
410'
300
201
-~~~~~                                 .~~Oy40'
wo-                     500
00. ZD'E  40' 60' '~0* 100' 120' 140= 1650' 1M0 160WV 140O' 120' lAO' 8J0'  60' 40' 20-
Figura 2. Impacto del Fen6meno ENOS en la Hidroclimatologia Global
(NOAA, 1997)



-34-
Flood Frequencies for Parana. River at Corrientes (1905-1990)
Winter ENSO Condition ->Winter Rows                      Winter ENSO Condifon ->Spring Flows
20.6                                                      0.6
2 0.6                                                      O -.
0.4 .                                                    0.4     
x                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
0.2                                                   ui 0.2
0                                                        0
10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000                10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000
Winter ENSO Conditfon ->Summer Flows                       Winter ENSO Condition ->Fall Flows
1   1   R      .      ,     . ,.    ,  ,                 1
-08 :\                                                 ,W0.8                             warm
.0.                                                         08- normal
210.6                                                    2 0.6                         -   co
a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
fgr0.4       3.                                          0.4
x 
uW 0.2                                                  uW 0.2
10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000                10000 15000 20000 25000 30000 35000 40000
Seasonal Discharges (rn3/sI                              Seasonal Discharges (m 3Is]
Figura 3. Curva de Excedencias Condicionales de Caudales en el rfo
Parand en Corrientes como Funcion de Episodlos Calidos, Normales y
Frfos del Fenomeno ENOS.



-35-
Site: Parand River at Corrientes (1905-1990; Lag = 2 Seasons)
0.5          f
0.451-  cold  1
0.45w          _      normal                                _
04-              warm_- l
0. 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0.35- 
~0.25-
0.2k
0.15 -
0.05r
OL
Dry                 Normal               Wet
Figura 4. Probabilidades Condicionales de Caudales (dos estaciones de
adelanto) del rio Parana en Corrientes como Funci6n de Episodios Cdlidos,
Normales y Frios del Fen6meno ENOS en la estaci6n Diciembre-Febrero.



-36-
Flood Frequencies for Bermejo River at Pto. Bermejo (1911-1991)
Winter ENSO Conditon ->Winter Flows                        Winter ENSO Condidon ->Spring Flows
o 0.6                                                         0.6
0.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
40.4              \                                         0.4            \ \
uJ 0.2    .                                                   0.2
0                                                          0
2000     4000      6000     8000    10000                  2000      4000     6000      8000    10000
Winter ENSO Conditdon ->Summer Flows                         Winter ENSO Conditon ->Fal Flows
I                                                          1
Bermejo en8 Puerto 8m0.8 c                                                             warm
- F lnormal
2 0.6                                                      00.6                                 cold
a.
to 0.4                                                     .~0.4
Q3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
x                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
uW 0.2                                                     w 0.2
0                                                          01
2000     4000      6000     8000    10000                  2000      4000     6000      8000    10000
Seasonal Discharges [m3Is]                                 Seasonal Discharges [m'3isl
Figure 5. Curva de Excedencias Condicionales de Caudales en el rfo
Bermejo en Puerto Bermejo como Funci6n de Episodios CdIidos, Normales
y Frios del Fen6meno ENVOS.



-37-
Site: Bermejo River at Pto. Bermejo (1911-1990; Lag = 2 Seasons)
0.7  _                                                _ _i  l
cold
normal
0.6 -                                                     warm
0.5
:L';0.4
c o
02  1w]i 
0.1    l
Dry                 Normal                Wet
Figura 6. Probabilidades Condicionales de Caudales (dos estaciones de
adelanto) del rfo Bermejo en Puerto Bermejo como Funcidn de Episodios
C.lidos, Normales y Frfos del Fen6meno ENOS en la estacion Diciembre-
Febrero.



-38-
Flood Frequencies for Atuel River (1908-90)
Winter ENSO Condition ->Winter Flows                       Winter ENSO Condition ->Spnng Flows
b0.8        .      >      .           .                   0.8 -
0.6                                                      20.6
X 0.4                      \                                co 0.4 -
x
uW 0.2                                                     W 0.2
0                                                          0
10      20       30      40       50                       10       20      30       40      50
Winter ENSO Condition ->Summer Flows                         Winter ENSO Condition ->Fall Flows
1                                                          1
-- 0.8 -                                                     0.8                             warm
_\ -    normal
(U                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(U
ENOS
2o 0.6                                                     2o 0.84                             cl
0.2.u 0.2
04                                                         0.
1 0     20       30      40       s0                       1 0      20      30       40      50
Seasonal Discharges (m3Is)                                 Seasonal Discharges (m 3/SI
Figura 7. Curva de Excedencias Condicionales de Caudales en el rfo Atuel
COMO Funci6n do Episodios Cdlid0s, Normales y Frfos del Fenomeno
ENOS.



-39-
Site: Atuel River (1908-1990; Lag = 2 Seasons)
0.45           j
0.4 -    
0 ~~  ~~  ~     cold
normal
0.35                  warm
0.3-
~0.25-
.0
2 0.2-
0.15 -'/.
0.05 
0
Dry                 Normal                Wet
Figura 8. Probabilidades Condicionales de Caudales (dos estaciones de
adelanto) del rio Atuel como Funci6n de Episodios Calidos, Normales y
Frios del Fenomeno ENOS en la estacion Diciembre-Febrero.



-40-
Multivariate ENSO Index for the 6
strongest historic El Nino events vs. the current event
3 _  r~~~_ ____-._ _ __" ........-                           -.-..........,......      _- r~~.  3
72+          > X;               jfX       .\                               7
82 f\i,s  
2               91 _+                                                                            2 sf. 6a 
:         -. iz    -        ..         !                   -\  :              C    99
.g                            2~ r-,.  2   tX   S  tS       . s7?58
0                         . i_.@ ..... _ ... _._S ....i.-]a ;  ...ie   ..........  . .1i.
Fiur 9 . Crpacin de 6 E.no  Cdio de  e6eo ENS  Of 6
Episd      C rrinte...... . .......... . ............. 1....... . (-  1997) ........     .. . .   -1
- Z _ ...... _ . - - . - --- - ...... . . ~~~~~~72173-2
0 K>=u Voltt si IvolA Ti sh
MOAA-CIBES C15=Lat Di*gost:s CoDt4t; U7ainsety of C410n lo a 3oulr
Figulra 9. Com7paracion de 6 Eventos Calidos del Fenomeno ENOS con el
Episodio Corriente (NOAA-CIRES, 1997)



-41-
SST Consolidation Forecast
Nino 3.4
3V      ----------       -------^---------------------------------
c1- --------- ----------L;---L
O ----------------------------------1-W-S 1 
E
°   -2  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -----T  
S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J
1997            Target Month          1998
j4.-Cons - CCA    NCEP - CA
Figura 10. Pron6stico Oficial del National Weather Service de los EEUU de
las Temperaturas Medias del Ocdano Pacifico Tropical (Ni,io 3.4) (NWS,
1997)



-42-
NIN03 OCEAN MODEL ASSIMILATION
COUPLED MODEL FORECAST
-3
2Y ~~~~~~Fn~~
1. 5
-0
I?     ;rXp .4 ).54 -0.5
-2
_   -'. ,.' ! X  t -- < <-   X i w +-2.5
/s___ LtX ~~~'    s  I.-  
~1    H-2
N_.   /l  I,,-    ' I  co 41hs  co  co v ) 0")"I
tn- .  I    a                 N               4 s~i  .
(3)  0)  0)C 0)m   0          D 0)
MonthNYear
Issued: November 1997
Figura 11. Pron6stico, Experimental del Bureau of Meteorology Research
Centre de las Temperaturas Medias del Ocdano Pacifico (Nifio 3) (BMRC,
1997)



-43-
NIN03  SSTA    (JJA97  IC)
,                    \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
I .
*~~~~~~~~~~
-    JUL    act       1998      APR        JUL        acr       JAN9
Vlerification time
Figura 12. Pronosticos Experimentaies del -Center for Ocean-Land-
A*tmoonh rAft . Qid.i_*slSrtm n0eta!, 1997- )



-44-
NCEP SST Temperature Anomal ies (C)
Forecast from 5 November 1997
NCEP FORECAST SSTa   NDJ1998
1ON   -./
los.
46E   60E   80E  lOOE  120E  140E  160E  180  160W  140W  120W  100W
NCEP FORECAST SSTa   FMA1998
EQ                                                         2
40E   60E  80E  lOOE  120E  140E  160E  180  160W 140W 120W 10OW
NCEP FORECAST SSTa : MJJ1998
liON          \4    . .
1ON4-                                    .....       ,     ' 
losrAA
40E   60E  80E  lOOE  120E  140E  160E  180  160W  140W  120W  100W
NCEP FORECAST SSTa   AS01998
1ON -        . 
*1        ~      - . ...... ...
40E  60E  80E  ldOE  120E  140E  160E  180  160W  140W  120W  1OOW
NCEPFORCAS  SSa :,~                AS0MU 11998          n
-4 -3.5 -3 -2.5 -2 -1.5 -1 -0.5  0.  0.5  1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4. Ilo
Figura 13. Pronostico de las Temperaturas Medias del Oceano Pacffico del
National Center for Environmental Prdi c       Atian, NcEP(1997,)



-45-
TWO BLEND SST Temperature Anomal ies (C)
MJJ 1998 (9 month lead)
Made 6 November 1997
TWO BLEND SST Anomaly (C): MJJ1998
i ON.
EQ
46E   60E  80E  100E 120E  140E  160E  180  160W 140W 120W 100W
CZ FORECAST SSTa:  MJJ 1998  (not used)
10N-                                            >* ....  8 . N .  %;* .......  ... w.  . ..... ...
EQ                                       -.-.-   .....        ,
46E  60E  80E  100E 120E  140E  160E  180  160W 140W 120W 100W
HCM FORECAST SSTa: MJJ 1998 (used)
EQ- 7                                                                   ,
40E   60E  80E  100E 120E  140E  160E  180  160W 140W 120W 100W
NCEP FORECAST SSTa:  MJJ 1998  (used)
io l .~  .  ..  __...._
40E   60E  80E  100E  120E  140E  160E  180  160W 140W 120W 100W
-4 -3.5 -3 -2.5 -2 -1.5 -1 -0.5 0.  0.5  1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0
R   International Research Institute for climate prediction
I R I NOAM/OGP, Columbia U./LDEO, U.California/SIO
Figura 14. Pronostico Combinado de las Temperaturas Medias del Oceano
pacifico Mayo-Junio 1998 (International Research Institute, 1997)



-46-
INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
FOR CLIMATE PREDICTION
EXPERIMENTAL CLIMATE FORECAST DIVISION
Map A October - December 1997
1601251 15-1
I00_               I        I       I        I
1151251651
100W                      60                         Q
r30    15_   1ns0c1 de P            t         e
200              i                               -
40° r                          13010140
12 1301501eo   rainfall
Soo _              3 130140130]                     -
60°S                       
Key       ~~~90°W                   60°                       300
PBelo-rcntagelklrihod f:  Figura 15. Pronostico de Precipitacione-s en America del Sur, Octubre-
A Above-norffal rainfall  Diciembre 1997 (International Research Institute, 1997)
IRI is a cooperative agreement between NOAA Office of Global Programs, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of
Columbia University and Scripps Institution of Oceanography/University of California, San Diego.
Mail: SIO - UCSD * 9500 Gilman Drive           La Jolla, CalifornIa 92093.0235 * USA
Phone: (619) 534.1868                                       Fax: (619) 534.8087



-47-
IRIIINTERNATIONAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
FOR CLIMATE PREDICTION
EXPERIMENTAL CLIMATE FORECAST DIVISION
Map B January - March 1998
1401351251
125135 40
10"N 
20 20 60 jiI                      602020
2 51351401
1201351451
1201351451
400 _                              1 151301551     -
-50' -                1351401251                    -
600S         I       I        I       I 
900W                     600                       300
Key
Percentage jikotihood or.   Figura 16. Pronostico de Precipitaciones en Amrnica del Sur, EWero-Marzo
B Below-normal rainfall
N Near-normal rainfall  1998 (Inbrnational Research Institute, 1997)
A Above-normal rainfall  19  entoa   eerhIsiue  97
IRI b a cooperative ageement between NOAA Ofrice of Global Programs, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of
Colimbia University and Scripps Institution of Oceanography/Jniversity of California, San Diego.
Mail: SIO * UCSD * 9500 Gilman Drive          La Jolla, California 92093-0235 * USA
Phone: (619) 534-1868                                     Fax: (619) 534-8087



-48-
Appendix 4
Course of Actions Taken by Central and Local Governments
In June of 1997, selected members of SUCCE and a Bank representative were lead by Dr.
Juan Valdes to key sites of flood defense structures and to US Army Corps of Engineers district
and division offices throughout the Mississippi Valley Basin and in Washington, DC The tour
encompassed exposure to both structural and non-structural measures taken by different US
Government agencies in regards to flood protection efforts.
In the littoral provinces several events have transpired. In late August of 1997, the First
Seminar on Hydro-meterology in the Plata Basin (Primer Encuentro de Hidrometereologia de la
Cuenca Plata) took place in the province of Chaco, where delegates (involved in, among others,
the SUPCEs and civil defense) from the all of the littoral provinces and those from the central
level (SUCCE, National Civil Defense, Secretary of Social Development of the President of the
Nation, Ministry of the Environment and others) were present. During the seminar, the El Nifio
phenomenon was analyzed in terms of its forecast and impacts for the remainder of 1997 and the
beginning months of 1998, and what preventive actions should be addressed in terms of structural
and non-structural measures.
On October 2, 1997, SUCCE held a meeting with the littoral provinces to analyze the
functioning of the hydraulic alert system (flood forecasting) which was implemented under the
Flood Rehabilitation Project. In addition, actions were agreed to for the short-term adjustment
and actualization of the communication system with the provinces, including the acquisition of
necessary supplemental goods. In the long-term, actions were agreed to modernize the system on
a regional scale. This meeting was followed up with a second meeting on October 23, 1997,
where the necessities for the system were finalized and a commission, consisting of
representatives from the provinces, SUCCE and the Institute for water and the Environment, was
created
November 3, 1997, marked the meeting with in the Secretary of Public Works of the
Ministry of Economics and Works and Public Services of the Nation with the participation of the
distinctive national entities (including SUCCE) where they discussed the problems that the
phenomenon presents and the already occurring floodings in the country. In the mentioned
meeting, it was determined that the speaker of the National Government with provinces will be
the Minister of the Interior, which will channel the demands referred to the management and
obtaining of resources to the Ministry of Economics.
November 6, 1997, SUCCE and the SUPCEs participated in a meeting held at the
Facultad de Ingenieria de la Universidad de BuenosAires. The participants analyzed the El
Nifio phenomenon at: both a global and local scale; its impact on the agrarian activities in the
region; the implemented hydraulic alert system (flood warning) in the littoral region; and what
structural and non-structural actions are to be undertaken in the region through the Flood
Protection Project.
From November 26 to 27, 1997, in the city of Salta, a meeting was held between the
northwestern provincial authorities and distinct national authorities to analyze the impact of the El
Niuo phenomenon in the northwestern region. December 11-12, 1997, members of SUCCE and



-49-
four SUPCEs attended a workshop in Montevideo, UIruguay in regards to the forecast of the El
Nifio event and its possible economic implications in southern South America.



-50-
Appendix 5
Participating SUCCE Staff in Project Preparation in Washington
SUCCE Staff                                  Role
Arq. Jorge A. Acosta                     SUCCE Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Rogelio Vincenti                     SUCCE Lawyer
Ing. Philip Sopher                       SUCCE Senior Civil Engineer
Dr. Juan Carlos Gimenez                  Professor of Civil Engineering
Ing. Roberto Bergman                     SUCCE Hydraulical Engineer
Lic. Ruben Perry                         SUCCE Engineer
Lic. Daniel Barrientos                   SUCCE Communication-Information Systems



-51-                                                                                                   Appendix 6
Identified Demand for Rehabilitation and Protection Works
Northwestem Provinces
_M UNAW   UN 4111"W    _ U4.                                                             R"                                                           LlS411YA            1r   PM
210                                              IJ0                                   279            3t         Sn             m IDHq                                               1JlS                                    279            $1        IAN
l4 H _IC                              t t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                  2 4            :92        :2       2         MO Cete                                          '4D0                                    lee1          Its         SZ
::1IO                                              nD                                  3DX           101         27D            2ORI0WI                                               10 IDO                                               I"          715
4 . _ t*M"M                                     41                                 46      D     Y                                                                                 llM 1 16 _V7                    _S014  4N
_   R *_1                            ~~~~~                                                    ~     ~~      ~     ~~~~~174  I TS I     btBllq                            2 0                                    lo0           1 *0
h*_w"w~~~~~~~~~9                           I  n                           u                                     Z      siltwTall walw s-Os"I                         *          2                                                               02
Vbe_,         Ill  da"  dwaf                  107                                                           IST           fteAh*W.WCDE(T-AIaR ldlNda ibY                                                                                          I H1
eAK4od f                       4                                            11                                           CllE kWis (CP.Wf_ kW Vieille d.-)                      Si                                                                Si
Ch(W b-NW    Rl_   ft                      #    4                 XO                             214                                      .GIIW 1w 1|1-0I X f78 
Ps de ,sleee"                           m    mamM,
_5 ieceefte-"Mass")                                                                                                                                                           " (n R  P_pe  S         n5  P5  C                          tiRr?  447
Ibh(BPkInR          Weeede"                    24 #4                                                                        RItyJr("RrS                       lm 
cadn.         lz  w4           )n                                                                    .           21             BDal   1 ttn(             ehR  r^r4
222 '29 t2d d57                                                                        279            22          -             220     5       2l,73                                                                        278            22         ,4 ID13
(Dn484229  4                                242 RW24_c4                                        292        a2224n 17      CDI seas 5                                            62                                     296 A222                  222leed   -V  D  3
245t4                                              2202                                              26          222            282 4                                                20P0as7 (ch.. C28                                     24e,        7 20  2
2             ak*    2d8 4le       2               242 C                                              -)             .          52 (C4 RM9 04968 R          2D                         72                                     45                       42
Iked" t4,55 40,45.4, .15tOWI                   ,2D                                  471           m         IAN              LI (- un ltllS                                        Orat
sale09w0.u2saeI'm                                                                                                                                                                                                                              is2 84282)62224528288834*8  8  6  2 
R pb922092.nos28.22w82 t.J                         266er 228                                                                    5868229848442y2422820692)                              62                                                               82
G(pl_s6             a1h2         ,  *-     1                                                                      29 6)  I             48 65 4 Y i .Wt 22tS, LS2   RWne.~08R 3*)      24                                                               294
F  34,28.1 0i..068flz 594                                                                                   4            213 a244892T    (2229289 6242020 688428)               62                                                                8 942
C  fl2.)002403*56222042829254052*e4                                                     - 21         224 #                      9.4092)R62fn 1.0 0    30('0ft)                      JS21                                                              262 38 ,173
TOWC                                h            lo       i     4                                  I. 471"1  10,12l.                                                                 I 55                                                             INS
(n2 M."                                          iA 27 0  21                                                     25l4           6 56 22 (2,d       6200292 68802)i                                                                          4t,I 228
*2 11   C __                          t40                                 23X         1~~~~~~~"C  t  42  MY        T"4lf@                                               2A4             So                     'Al$                       o n
Settle8                                         as -53                                              -n         .95            Tws                                               17.56727                                                             2 .s4f 1,129  29
S.WPlate      _           _                        2                                                             127            S0a (Cp( d9E2s
Pa      5_e_                     )                 274                                                           124            2MMsI4AN 62                                                                                  260            31 2,7a
2448218.022s6822046*.)                             3 44                                                          234           18S.acoI2ors  (21222 C2. 42tO24                         790 a8 20
_9.a  l (92.h.34022,m68403*.j) 2_  d22                                                                                         6w6)Co2Su4284202              M  146                   72                                    42            232          M
92*3452843424.25.40,48,4,2.22(7l000)             Z24                                   422     _      -         2450      X      42134042680a52            8 162  ()                  22 (am                                  62(2M-3
W-_ (Y_Rb 64e8A                                  2729      4      8         4         2722            .          6n0            Preo    6ow Mms 2.52 02(70004                        27 2am)  127                            212
T4,   tm R _                                   16.427            54          -t       WW  4R*Jf 1012                            0043422252           7                               220                                                              272
*4Uy                                                                                                                            2258227292256. 89223*226 96252 202.0252I MS-, (0t)   2                                       26             8          Cl a,)  9  97
ileaapawilia_d.d.-4.                               *0R                                                                                                                                                                                                   SSM .a  F Oe1 S  s5
228292j62g                           .22                                   22            22         ,22            22o612m24h2s.222562166                                20                                       8            4          274
=4P8(bn    8A2 del,lla,t                           2                                                              252           latagl  S CalE,uRo     ,t                              a
P (8ds R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                    M      b      M                        Te-  PMh sX r STead , KK dl dif-"        58                                                                               st
Dt,8nXRt RItrrald-nbl)     ~          ~~~~                                        ~~~ *5  40                          oeSe, (ftaSes mabenM.")                             72                                                                72
ft 0edsillsefe24                                                                                                74           24e2u4 228In                                                                                  222           22        2.7
S40482844*25(926826922288242an2      23                                   64            5          an             266800m ,084s         M.")                             SI                                    22            24 
9(43408.2992a2006ig n .                                                             229X         246 .0                     26522                                                2.22                                    34iRsEKe i    224         902
eds C)(2n469       50 - 9b2s 4 State5,   l e a)     282 2                                             2M         0)240  (ft allies oa                      4 M.")                                                                                      2
2265 02)28824084.s282042.6025)                      62                                                            62            18        (0428  ASla  ,I,( ,   fttSn5)                43 4
Ta4506452928682l,l        26.0469*J                2,0                                 .44            22          M25               5m222(ft  am  o~ t ."28246)                       222                                                               227
T     2s262w600222518424 64                                                        t42            22         * 5            q8 P  (62 S22*6 ennr, l88242)                         72                                                                22
T8r PS 184                                      afor . hZ 9247                                                                  s5     (ft2Owes9 2    6"Kb)                            52                                                               22
LaM*el& 1                                                                                                         6a M(R *KKb enre 2 b)                                                57                                                               87
S80  H                                             A42                                  2n 25                     22             8ta (M seem teo sMn.")                                53                                                               42
126                                                             C                       i5(O    028945n  142      24 S n       b       )SaM2829288482825)                              45                                                               46
9290  9975220234829                                                         se    -                                                52228)5) 2064s 40 2229220 219225                   220ores^ 225
C_3hee MlJ     Ms dn"s _             )                                                                                                                                                                                         42Owti 15 .Cl(b K-enl )n*  26
CN*b " S26r0.W . 0428429)                          222w                                                          222               F6928502a022920s40)2                                                                       Is2
70r(862P-.2flo-enl25h202282829)                  297 2,7                                                                      0utn   rd 2 S_b      eenho),92                                                                287 1 0
F    O,)M V4-  R*ee,id4Tw                                                         457                                           Pt   R..I W.s 5.T,18,1,36 (50bn                      2 ao                                      0            us        1,50
)8.843462d42u2049924225) 6nd2                                                      44b w    a6  -)  5642)                                                                        72 D( .   2M                                                      0 t)  Me  2.2  el  40
92sNRieaa,    deliee%2.U8)                         2142                                                           325 e                  20e 02r*  90      5                            62                                                              02
202634344842925      8                             34n o                                                          856 enn9                    0 2l20 de641I9)                          6 *Z2wsae  2612 t                    1  J            .T
r_r-4 (P8,6., enn92342. l0902220405 64422824.68)   226Z229                                            5          422              Toll 90269 (3 584M1 'ow2W 6.424)                                                                       1021 46,o99
1  _    R_  el  t)                    t4~~~~~~~~~12                                                  662            Tu                                                                           _
9226726048409060286099               2~~~~~~~75506                                                 2,17            784055268410828622792825)                              42426
af~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80,..Opt fR _  *ns                                    ts.a                                                                                     73   2"  ,^9
2s22u8c042228'                                    2792           22                   2742wls -0 34i                                                                                                                          dO285 5060                *35nd 40   62 '2
sn * V Rl_ rl t Kg) t4X ~~~~~~941                                     A"I                                                               (U wdzansln s 4i                                                          0
w   (FRlZreA_                         sn                                                       s~~~~~~~~~~63  n    Cngft (G.Xms Rlb-                                      "IN ehz   8
Ch -A DIBE S                                                                  - na21                 fl_ nf sn              W        (UA.) R2- 1- *       )                            510                                    2i
u  RbJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As                                                   M?      t    ee M   ,      MT" Sr INlC(e brbrlt e o
rI     Ris4 e t  M. I         'S                                                                                                           (PA'S'a4 II240  2la629212 g)                62                                                                8 2
Tdh Mlansed                                                                                                                    L SAG  (So     l R_en-lelKt                         tie                                                               I'se
260,22025272                                                                   2             9          ,2 28890512602620464)4                                                                                                                 421
226228                                             345                                  225X 246                 44              . Cs.40go42064040s20408240)                           672                                    42             2 
o028434 3m 9.22*409 284223 892nd4fl,t)            5727                                212           275           - 0o0 S.;"M2. (4C.. IRne-              3) n2                                                                 219          12 
cS wap10 _@s                         a,s~~~~~~~~~~.24                      ISS            91        2,Mg            IKeu(cun     e1ts                                                                                                      liXe
)5094028228280400505t 272                                                                                   2,34            S29)1 548 4e2d2 R2  enKne9 2 )                        42)                                    28212
9340.)C2802j898.8222n76282828         48                                                             487            729.52225o65o25.7,6,2,so)0I'M222                                                             40            242        272
Td 6828)0092 29/                                62J                                     34s JO .   J,J2  2361    19, 9/11 M     T)  (m2o  _  *_ee                                     141                               54 - J                       @s
C::. (tetsetO R -,hnn      d. c )                    I 7t                                                  40 t       1T
Rb el Ti u5 n5 ahnse ~~~~~~~~329                                                                          3"1
2W RMOKb  320324023*       (130ft)22     ,db r8282M  3u5                                                              22c2
hbs    Y                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a s                                               1% OZa
Gd T#t   g ,a IKnhws *                 e)             *634                                                  s           n
t) _wU DrO"Wp R*d _mw
2)       _               C*ntOrbt  MWlgnotP1   4dmW-M                         OOsCalwilwotth   b S R 
QTIlAhe _' aele" Nnod~" e_Af nstoM P*t, NtWft ntt CdM US$3 tMYO" ,|Eb,.kwotw 
1)88RN .*Oid 0082219)         W8 *d*r              678                                                            622           2622)d2                                               2,722l27                                              22        2.228
2442584%485.2  22242402)                         62                                                              22            20.8c.07).6..92                                                                               2222                      9



-52-                                                                                          Appendix 6
identified Works to be Financed and Remalning Demand
Littral Provincn
500_)
Piotc                 dbtIed Wads.              I      t  Proposd  toume of aS* Pniaw   | Ce _sn Wc
cost   ~   ~ ~                  -        Fmmng fre
____________________                                      UiL 32aI'    LN411.Ar  E  ?w   4ifh
BumAkse
Tooul                                                  50             50so
Hing                                                  820            434                                         18e
M8          nn n0C eWMCl k W -n8805I)                 300                                      186               114
MWNCCaio,F30V CO Ba,dolno)                             25                                                        -             25
S.oTn."OiOd*C,.*drnI.g) .5110                                                                 1.115              804
L.Cne(t-Ma nd-Mog)                                    100                                       02                38
P dO IaU,. 5(de.  9w45)                               400                                      248               152
MobS. CntoTe  'lnolond4oo   41.88..)          E      132            2,160                                       720
C88lat.8ClO(N*.       3oso.301.5.0)                  1,134                           e12                        322
COom    COi(noa.nw 011,s,305.00S )                  1.530                         1995                         435
Goo.I§Mddgs 1.,305 3-0)                              1.145                           821                        325
Gcs.515d doas 02.3054-0)                             1,820                         1,303                         517
Gowyfs4ft,ac     3W0055 °                            2,1#i                         1,044                        012
Gap  o0d dss4n t4 300.0-0)                          4 822                          3.453                       1,305
GqPlloodd ae,,ff 30. 7-S. 5.ei3                                                   4.215                       1,074
R0*o. frn qdrool 6                                    5283           737                                        245
Gwods iPn.  880     1,. anno55i          w'sn   )    1870                          1,339                        531          000
P8wOo04d 7408000no.oo                               4173                           2.037       304             1232           .00)
T= Ined Auldi5es=                                    1.070           220             740       105
Totil                                           3J  722           3, 55         17Z963      2,021            9,1t57          25
00
Ral.    a (,eOonO. I dd- d.o,gtNr)                    720                                      440               274
dr-         S (Sz.o I ed   7nini9                     720                                      440               274
R0Hald (5 KtSod .   d   O. &  ng0                     720                                      440              274
Mo. NW. 0N51  ddO_bwoq..NM                           1550           1,183                                       388
R.oBalojSKllonl ndI.Oe55oing                         1980           1.470                                       490
Ralgadr (no.r1h I   W    201.0)                      2800                          2045                         811
R0OcrcIt1ioN s.4054iliddo    2002.)                  5212                          3732                        1480
Ra lg(9O6..8Ne8.            W,Wroniol 200.845        2 804                         2083                         758         5000)
R044  4.d          000a1a,o5 oW.200.Q,0)              942                           874                         208
R08 ,V0fiw. I.0d84 8                                 1,155           888                                         289
Coodc 'p  io.,5asao.,.a(sn lh moing  6,1 5s )        S572            460           3 550                       1,052
PhIww    4. Rm -,50,455.408                          3095                          I927        250              918
T.MloI AWOn.c.'                                       611             50            473         07
TONI                                              27,91i          3,299           419       1,6R              7,622        (0 00)
EnieRift
DIfl"08    cwr-on.)                                   100                                       02               38
C5O. 5 t*5 (5Cwriww1 ,,)                              360                                      217               133
Cl O(.5bhlelonod2%hol.                                 38                                       24                14         000
bIcw(rlut9linolod2.rrr)                               190                                      118               72
P.r. (rddl eo55d2.o0)                                 140                                       87               53
LOPa.(5I.0 u159liud.Iod5dI                            180                                      812               88
G u(rd bwsn.MOItlnoSsshoooh)                          190                                      118                72
Co.o-&.riatl hetIO00dS.                               390                                      217               133
Coion (rW10bited d0 2 rrr)                            130                                       81               49
C555880o0 (Wd.bM.U.on d 3 EsOb)                        so                                       31                19
1tchu ( 1.OhuAonm. d . 5oo)                           175                                      100                57
Sao AN  oVidViOsO OlRor oa c       n)OMM0 S          1.500                                     500              570
FW,ndM(rlb.knon)                                     1300                                      930               570
C0188dm dontl UW05 W 8. Crk d..o0  8  o)              160                                       93               57
C0onicdon ciol Lh00  (0lo.M. r5t.W3ng)                250                                      155               95
sOSSoM           S      na IN" rOf-)                 560                                       93               57
L*Pal ,C.W.C.**e,BcB)                                 400                                      245               152
Pa(iv,&    o  Cno t55n .yr r zo.n)                   1.500                                     am0               570
Col7a OC)                                             800                                      460              304
v41P&no05.8.sw)                                       750                                      455               285
Mc6f pt,oln    do000)                                 200                                      124               70
LSPa5,don d rn.o.poss       oasnSi                    430                                      287               503           (0)
Vict0010(r con*040553d 04c 0568856rh0n                350                                      217               533
04cW588bkW.-0 0cc86 tontuC0)                          500                                      310               160
C0000.74a-soCr.1,08005)                               400            300                                         100
LftArnJ CMS*wo.                                       700            525                                         175
C05060d55dI30955y55855884fl00a00.5885588l5555       5,910                         1,380                        542
L.P.osba.5..0.bIsoss 402.1.0)                      2.338                          1,074                         004          (P)
Col s ptonnvtdWCO1       .405.1 0)                  4,145                          2,900                       1,177
C-00d0(0      -*Sonowstpeino,40552.0)               i 81555                        4.407                       1,748
RMal.ln,IndiSl.os                                     421            310                                         505
Good55srop  5580555,e  So'OosoislonOos                460            500                                         560
Pi504ed nrd 7du conins04.                          4,77                           2073      5500              1,538 
=700650 080000'                                      1233            225            510        390
Total                       32854                            e      f           12,069      7s197            10092 
Formms
kn0d truk (wunm5ioe   d cnn b)                      15000                                      620               330
WM. *.Vdntg                                           e0o            495                                         150
F0,58 C.p0 (SO 5505 def. 0 .50,5 1 .0)              3.089                          2,212                         877
Fosoou COWp 0450ors  Mn. 5 W501.2 0)                3000                           2.219                         00o
Rw.d.irOOino d..0                                     159            127                                         42
Cood (7nI.."             wn ei,t)                   
RW 1d5s.dp nnd 0 lcnisdren                           1303                           942        11e              405
T.d,ftdA,,;irnt0c                                     340             so            240         42
ToaI                                              .6rno             627          5,52i        778            2,725
P.Wn.IRoadho 2(nddgp4 on.0o)                         1,590                                     730              570
Pl0An.i04Ro.siR  2(B,..1.forrnoMbroSobddga5           400            300                                         100
FPL.foEW          l..ini it.01.1.0)                   760                           537                         213
W5rl.n)     i 51861 2 1-0)                            795                           537                          213
ado"45.5.55.505607.140)                             1577                           1.129                        440
Rw",B45Wn00o8ba                                       552             a4                                          28
Good1 (nlm. _000.5. .5  Wngwo.p6   mt It)             .                                                          .
P          AsCes04ad5C08onis04.g.sdn                  ees                           419        174              273
TdIMA.04das4nte'                                      234             W0             123        a1
Total                                               ,188            434          2745       1165              1844
Maff Fe                                                                                          
0Md04  hi dfnM                                      3,000                                   15e00              1140
9    54 Set" (Le0 C".ei .nOo, 708.1 0)             7,484                          5359                        2125
feest SO"5P00. C4skt, fOfngs 700.2-0)               4.195                          3 O4                        1191
Goods ps.sg 9815580 5555.qipn..t,t                  ,
P5od5I0nd5o. cfotW4snd.                             2.777                          10s4        347              843
T7dO,,i A4   n.t0'                                    e37             60            487        520
TO&al                  _1895                                         50         10418    2327                5 3300
Or-nd ToOM                                      _ 12_            10,3            KI2 SS   1114 1             3- ,95i          25
eT*@_i ~   ~        ~        ~       ~        _____              64.165    15,654 



-53-
Appendix 7
Project Description Outline
Northwestern Provinces Component.
(i)   Protection phase for: Acquiring of goods and execution of works for emergency
river flood control (including riverbed cleaning, levee and embankment strengthening, and
other river protection measures) and protection of infrastructure, such as bridges, health
centers, and schools.
(ii)   The rehabilitation phase for: Given that the full impact of El Niflo cannot be
ascertained until the first few months of 1998, it is not possible to define this phase
completely at this time. The eligibility of financing for any reconstruction activities would
be contingent on damages sustained from El Niffo-related phenomena. Subproject
categories include: (a) transport infrastructure; (b) drainage systems; (c) health and
education facilities; (d) water supply and sewerage; and (e) river dredging, defenses and
embankments. Investment subprojects to be financed under the reconstruction phase
would have to meet eligibility criteria agreed upon with the Government.
(iii)  Technical assistance: This phase would finance: the establishment of the
SUPCEs in the northwestern provinces for an estimated 1,500 man-months for three
years; equipment for civil defense coordination, training, and flood forecasting; regional
environmental studies, integrated with a regional flood-risk mapping; and detailed
engineering studies for works and inspection of such works during execution.
(iv)   Housing: Reconstruction of housing would be administered on homes destroyed
or severely damaged would be supported through a program of grants and self-help work.
About 300 low-income families would be able to rebuild their homes. Vouchers would be
offered to cover the cost of obtaining materials (about US$6,200 per home). The
eligibility criteria and the framework to implement this subcomponent would be the same
as that used successfully in the Flood Rehabilitation Project.
II.   Littoral Provinces Component.
(i)    The rehabilitation phase: Rehabilitation would be contingent on damages
sustained from El Ninlo-related phenomena. Subprojects along the Uruguay River have
been identified, including: (a) drainage systems; (b) education and health facilities; and (c)
river dredging, defenses, and embankments. Investment subprojects to be financed under
the reconstruction phase would have to meet eligibility criteria agreed with the
Government.
(ii)   The project would finance the engineering and supervision of the rehabilitation
works would be financed under the project.



-54-
III.  Institutional Strengthening.
(i)    This phase would strengthen SUCCE's administrative and technical capacity to
coordinate implementation of the project for an estimated 100 man-months. SUCCE will
be required to carry out annual audits of project accounts.



-55-
Appendix 8
Guidelines for Terms of Reference for Consultants to Undertake a Regional Flood-
risk Zoning of the Northwestern Provinces
LINEAMIENTOS GENERALES PARA TERMINOS DE REFERENCIA
El prop6sito de esta secci6n es la definici6n de algunos criterios para la determinaci6n de los
terminos de referencia de estudios para la determinacion de mapas de zonas de riesgo para las
provincias del noroeste de Argentina. Estos mapas de zonas de riesgo permitiran una mejor
prestaci6n de los prestamos de emergencia.
Es importante recalcar que, sin la definici6n de las zonas de riesgo, es imposible estimar las
caracteristicas y las frecuencias de eventos extremos. La experiencia de las inundaciones del
Medio Oeste en los EEUU en el afio 1993 indican la dificultad de evaluar el periodo de retorno de
una inundaci6n en una regi6n. Por ejemplo la recurrencia de la crecida del 1993 fue de 50 afios en
St. Paul (Minnesota), menos de 100 afnos en Lincoln (Nebraska) a mas de 100 affos en St. Louis
(Missouri). De mas de 500 estaciones hidrometricas del US Geological Survey en la zona del alto
Mississippi, 45 estaciones excedieron el nivel de recurrencia de 100 aflos pero al menos 450 no lo
hicieron (Interagency Floodplain Management Review Committee, 1994). Solo sectores del
Mississippi Superior y del Missouri alcanzaron un periodo de recurrencia de 500 afios.
La deterniinaci6n de las zonas de riesgo debe ser mas completa que la determinaci6n de la linea de
la creciente de 100-afnos, mas apropiadamente Ilamada la creciente con una probabilidad de
ocurrencia de 1% en cada afno ("one-percent standard", Lord, 1994). Generalmente, al menos en
los EEUU, los usuarios localizados en la planicie de inundaci6n debajo de la linea del 1% tienden
a creer, err6neamente, que el riesgo es el mnismo en cualquier sitio de la planicie. Un ejemplo de la
determinaci6n de mapas de zonas de riesgo de inundaci6n en zonas semi-aridas, como las del
noroeste Argentino, puede verse en Marco (1994). En ese estudio las zonas de riesgo fueron
clasificadas en las siguientes categorias: zonas de inundaci6n masiva; conos aluviales, desaparici6n
de cauces efimeros; cuencas cerradas y zonas muy concentradas de escasa area pero de alta
probabilidad de inundaci6n ('black spots"). En este estudio se demostr6 que la mayor parte del
problema es urbano y se debi6 al crecimiento desordenado cuyas consecuencias fueron
remediadas con medidas estructurales. En el estudio se determin6 que el 80% de las medidas
estructurales podrian haberse evitado si se hubiera llevado a cabo una zonificaci6n adecuada de la
planicie de inundaci6n.
INCERTIDUMBRES EN LA DETERMINA CIONDE LAS ZONAS DE RIESGO
En la determinaci6n de las zonas de riesgo deben tenerse en cuenta las incertidumbres en la
determinaci6n de la magnitud de las crecientes y su extensi6n areal. Esto no es habitualmente
mostrado en los planos de riesgo de inundaciones. Por ejemplo estimaciones de la creciente con
un periodo de retorno de 100 aflos puede tener una variaci6n de un 5% a un 45% (Burkham,
1978). Esta incertidumbre aumenta notablemente para la definici6n de crecientes con un mayor
periodo de recurrencia.
Una incertidumbre adicional es la transformaci6n de una creciente en su equivalente nivel. Esto se
hace habitualmente por intermedio de una curva de altura-caudal o por medio de un modelo



-56-
hidraulico. En el estudio del Interagency Floodplain Management Review Committee (1994) se
citan errores del orden de 0.2 a 2 pies. Adicionalmente existe la imperfecci6n de los mapas
topograficos. En el estudio mencionado se estima que la definici6n del nivel de la linea de la
creciente de 100 afios puede tener una variaci6n promedio del 23% con respecto al valor
estimado.
SELECCIONDE UNNI VEL DE FRECUENCIA PARA PRtSTAMOS DE EMERGENCIA
Dada la alta variabilidad espacial del periodo de retomo de un fen6meno de inundaciones es dificil
la selecci6n de un valor regional de frecuencia y debe seleccionarse un valor puntual para la
determinaci6n de la adjudicacion de un prestamo de emergencia.
El caudal de disefio de una obra hidraulica para control o atenuaci6n de crecidas depende de las
caracteristicas de la obra. Existen tres criterios para la selecci6n de este nivel (Chow y otros,
1988):
*  Criterio empirico: se adjudica un determinado periodo de recurrencia basado totalmente en la
probabilidad de excedencia. Por ejemplo generalmente se diseflan puentes en caminos
secundarios con un periodo de recurrencia entre 10-50 afios y en carreteras principales con un
periodo de retorno entre 50 y 100 afios.
  Criterio de riesgo: es una extension del criterio empirico donde la probabilidad de excedencia
durante la vida uitil del proyecto es tenida en cuenta, es decir R = (1 - I/T)r donde T es el
periodo de retorno y n es el numero de aflos en la vida util del proyecto. A este valor se lo
modifica con un factor de seguridad.
*  Analisis hidro-econ6mico: en este estudio se determina el periodo 6ptimo de disefio en base al
caracter probabilistico de las crecidas y al impacto econ6mico de las mismas sobre el rango
factible de eventos hidrologicos.
Dada la escasa informaci6n que se estima esta disponible se recomienda que en esta fase del
proyecto se adopten criterios basados totalmente en la frecuencia. Se recomienda, por lo tanto,
una creciente de disefno de 50 afios en el sitio como el umbral a partir del cual se aprobara el uso
de los fondos de emergencia. Este periodo de recurrencia es lo suficientemente alto para justificar
reparaciones mayores al sistema de drenaje, comunicaciones, etc de la regi6n pero al mismo
tiempo con una frecuencia de ocurrencia alta (riesgo de 55% en un periodo de 30 afios). La
mayoria de las obras principales de infraestructura se disefian con un periodo igual o mayor a 50
afios.
Como criterio adicional para la adjudicaci6n de los prestamos de emergencia se puede adoptar un
criterio de cobertura espacial de la emergencia, por ejemplo si en un departamento o provincia
esta afectada en mas del 75% de su superficie se puede considerar al departamento o provincia
ccen emergencia" y autorizar el reembolso de los prestamos de emergencia.



ARGENTINA EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECI
EXPECIED PROJECT7 COSTS
(US$ thousands)'
Civil Defense    Price and   Engineering  Housing    SUPCE     Auditing
Province                     Works Goods Housing and Emergency   Physical          and     Technical Development  Services    Total
Alert    Continqencies Supervision Assistance D
Northwestem
-Catamarca                  3,919    510     310            300           177        125         31         600          47    6,020
-Jujuy                      2,039    265     310            300            92         65         31         600          29    3,732
-La Rioja                   5,688    736     310            300           257        182         31         600          65    8,169
-Salta                      2,677    347     310            300           121         86         31         600           35    4,507
-Santiago del Estero        2,425    323     310            300           110         78         31         600           33    4,209
-Tucuman                    3,753    487     310            300           170        120         31         600           46    5,816
Regional Studies                                                                                                                 2,100
SUCCE Institutional Development                                                                                                    450
COMPONENT TOTAL              20,501  2,668   1,860          1,800          927         656       186        3,600         255   35,003
Littoral
-Chaco                       2,160      0    -          -                 403          71     -          -                16    2,649
-Corrientes                  2,625     0    -           -                 490         86      -          -                19    3,219
-Entre Rios                 10,100     0    -           -                1,884       330      -          -                68   12,381
-Formosa                     1,000     0    -           -                 187         33      -          -                 9    1,228
-Misiones                    1,500     0    -           -                 280         49      -          -                12    1,841
-Santa Fe                    3,00      0    -           -                 560         98      -          -                22    3,679
COMPONENT TOTAL              20,385      0       0              0         3,802        666         O            0         145   24,998
PROJECT TOTAL                40,888  2,668   1,860          1,800         4,729      1,322       186        3,600         400   60,000
rTatls may not equal sum of figures due to rounding
'0



-58-                                  Appendix 9
ARGENTINA EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT
Provincial Financing and Counterpart Funding Required
(USS thousands)
Works, Goods, Regional Study Financed  Total Amount Provincial Project
Province             TA, Housing    Cost Share    SUCCE   Financed by    CPF
Financed      Financed    Cost Share    Bank      Required   Cost
Northwestemr
-Catamarca                4,293            390         83        4,766     1,727   6,493
-Jujuy                     2,814           241         52        3,107       918   4,025
-La Rioja                  5,680           529        113        6,322     2,488   8,810
-Salta                     3,314           292         62        3,669     1,192   4,861
-Santiago del Estero       3,124           272         58        3,454     1,086   4,540
-Tucuman                   4,161           376         81        4,618     1,656   6,274
COMPONENT TOTAL             23,386         2,100        450       25,936     9,067   35,003
Littoral
-Chaco                     1,660           -                     1,660       990   2,649
-Corfientes               2,017            -          .          2,017      1,202   3,219
-Entre Rios                7,761           -                     7,761     4,620  12,381
-Formosa                    768            -                       768       459   1,228
-Misiones                  1,153                                 1,153       688   1,841
-Santa Fe                  2,305                                 2,305      1,374   3,679
COMPONENT TOTAL            15,665            .          .         15,665    9,333   24,998
PROJECT TOTAL              39,050          2,100       450        41,600    18,400   60,000



-59-
Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
IBRD               PG              TOTAL
Protection Phase                10 5 m.           4.5 m.            15.0 m.
Rehabilitation Phase            31.5 m.           13.5 m.           45.0 m.
TOTAL PROJECT                   42.0 m.           18.0 m.           60.0 m.



-60-
Appendix 10
Project Operational Manual (POM)
To facilitate project implementation, a Project Operational Manual based on the revised
POM from the Flood Protection Project will be used. Lessons learned during the implementation
of the two ongoing flood projects would be incorporated into the new POM. Among other
aspects, the POM includes: (i) eligibility for protection works and indicators that trigger eligibility
for rehabilitation; (ii) procurement procedures; (iii) housing grant procedures; (iv) provincial fund
allocation and reallocation guidelines; (v) disbursement procedures; (vi) SUCCE structure and
responsibilities; (vii) structure and responsibilities of each SUPCE; and (viii) project monitoring
and auditing.
Eligibility indicators: The POM includes a list of types of infrastructure that will be
eligible for Bank financing for the protection phase in the northwestern component of the project.
Also, guidelines will be established on where the best location for such protection investments
should be made. The POM will also include a set of criteria that must be met that signal that a
significant weather event has taken place and that the resulting damaged occurred was from the
excessive rainfall endured in the region and that rehabilitation may commence.
Procurement procedures: The POM will include a detailed set of instructions to the
implementation agencies (SUPCEs) to apply adequately the procurement procedures based on the
Bank Guidelines for procurement of goods and works as well as for selection of consultants. The
POM includes also the agreed procedures for NCB, shopping and direct contracting. The POM
will also include arrangements for SUCCE supervision of procurement actions and review of
bidding documents. The agreed standard bidding documents for all procurement of goods and
works are to be annexed in the POM.
Housing grant procedures: The POM will describe in detail the agreed criteria and
procedures for eligibility for the housing grant, as well as procedures to be followed by the
SUPCEs to distribute and control the vouchers and to help the beneficiaries to construct their
houses. These are the same guidelines and criteria established in the Flood Protection Project.
Fund allocation: The POM will include, based on identified investments during project
preparation, the amount of funds initially allocated to each province. The POM will also establish
the guidelines and timetables for fund reallocation.
Disbursement procedures: The POM will include details in the procedures to be followed
by the SUPCEs to disburse from special accounts. They are based on the Bank disbursement
procedures and based on experience gained during the implementation of the previous projects.
The POM will also include the arrangements for SUCCE control and supervision of disbursement
activities by the SUPCEs.
SUCCE structure and responsibilities: The POM will define SUCCE as a group of
consultants funded by the loan proceeds of the Flood Protection Project and by the El Nifio
Emergency Flood Project for the supplementary staff required to administer and implement the
additional work load brought on by the northwestern component. SUCCE will continue to report
to the UEC of the SAFP. SUCCE will be headed by an executive chief and will be composed of
professionals in each sector of project implementation, having as a minimum: (i) project



-61-
supervisor, reporting directly to the SAFP and to the Bank; (ii) an accounting expert; (iii) a
disbursement expert; (iv) a procurement expert; (v) an environmental expert; (vi) a flood defense
expert; (vii) a civil engineering expert; (viii) a hydrologist; (ix) a housing expert; (x) an expert for
shelters and civil defense actions; (xi) a drainage expert; (xii) a counsel; (xiii) an advisor for sub-
project evaluations; and (xiv) support for administrative, computational, accounting, technical and
disbursement activities. All new and existing professionals in SUCCE will be hired having terms
of references (TOR) and the selection process shall be presented to the Bank. The POM will
define as SUCCE's responsibility to oversee, supervise and control the actions of all SUPCEs,
particularly in respect to identification of works to be selected for investment, sub-project design,
procurement actions, implementation, supervision, disbursement, accounting and auditing.
Structure and responsibility of each SUPCE: Each participating province will assign
project implementation responsibility to a local SUCCE, as done in the ongoing Flood Protection
Project. The SUPCE will consist of a chief executive reporting to a provincial minister or directly
to the governor (in some provinces), and will have experts in a similar structure to that of
SUCCE. Proceeds from the loan will finance the SUPCE staff for the six provinces identified in
the northwestern component for three years. The POM establishes the arrangements for the
adequate control and relationship between SUCCE and the SUPCEs.
Project monitoring and auditing: The POM will establish the accounting requirements to
be followed by each SUPCE and by SUCCE. The monitoring system, especially the quarterly
reports to be sent to the Bank, would follow the same standard and content as those used in the
two other flood projects and would follow the project monitoring and performance indicators
agreed to in the POM. External independent auditors will be hired by SUCCE to audit annually
all project accounts, disbursement, procurement actions and SOEs and the use of the special
account. The TOR for the auditing services will be included in an annex to the POM.
Guidance to contractors on environmental aspects: The POM will include an annex, as in
the Flood Protection Project POM, giving guidance to contractors on procedures to be followed
during the execution of works to minimize environmental effects.



-62-
Appendix 11
Expected Engineering Design Criteria
Infrastructure                              Return Period Design'
(years)
Secondary stormwater collectors                                      2.332
Primary urban drainage, including culverts,                          10-25
open drainage canals, and others
City wide protection (macro level), includes                         50-100
levees, detention ponds, water outlets/intakes,
and others
1Return period design is dependent upon economic cost of avoided damage.
22.33-year flood corresponds to the average flood in the Gumbel distribution (one of the statistical distributions
commonly used for flood analysis).



-63-
Appendix 12
Bank Supervision Plan
Approximate Date  Partial and Full Supervision Mission Focus   Required Skill
June 1998 (P)     Review of: project implementation, list of   Engineer
identified rehabilitation works, impact of El Nino in
NOA and required provincial debt laws.
December 1998 (P)  Review of: El Nfio impact, identified       Engineer
rehabilitation works, inspection of works and
required provincial debt laws
April 1999 (F)    Review of: project implementation, uncommitted   Engineer
funds and reallocation with Borrower agreement,   Hydrologist
eligibility criteria, performance indicators and  Environmentalist
procurement timetables                      Financial Analyst
July 1999 (P)      Review of:                                  Engineer
December 1999 (P)  Review of: compliance to agreements made during  Engineer
project review mission.
April 2000 (F)    Review of: reallocation and/or canceling of  Engineer
uncommitted funds, with Borrower agreement, and  Environmentalist
project implementation                      Financial Analyst
November 2000 (P)  Review of: compliance to agreements made during  Engineer
project review mission and inspection of works.
April 2001 (F)    Review of: progress implementation, discussion of Engineer
future project and instruct SUCCE on preparation
of Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Project
August 2001 (P)    Review of: advancement on PCR, remaining sub-   Engineer
projects not completed and other remaining details
Supervision Staff Week Input
Calendar Year  _    1998              1999            2000             2001
Staff Weeks         25               17               15               5
P=Partial Supervision Mission
F-Full Supervision Mission



-64-
Appendix 13
Financial Management System
SUCCE, as defined by projects financed by the Bank, will maintain a financial
management system (FMS), as in the past and as defined in the POM. The FMS will encompass
accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems, adequate to ensure that SUCCE can provide
to the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures.
Accounting: The information submitted to the Bank by SUCCE will adhere to accounting
standards acceptable to the Bank. Since SUCCE has been implementing Bank projects for over
five years, it already has an established accounting and internal control system that conforms with
such accounting standards that (i) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions involving the use of Bank funds; and (ii) provide sufficient financial information for
managing and monitoring project activities.
Financial Reporting: SUCCE, as governed by the legal agreements and POM, will be
required to submit to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year (including the
fiscal year of the final disbursement) an audited financial statement of the project. The Bank will
also require that SUCCE have audited financial statements of any sub-borrower's implementing
agency (SUPCEs), since its financial viability is essential to project success and because one of the
project objectives are to improve institutional capability. In addition, SUCCE may need to submit
interim an audited statements used for project managing and monitoring purposes.
Auditing: SUCCE will have itself and the provincial implementing agencies financial
statements (including the Special Account and statement of expenditures) audited each year in
accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank as defined by the POM. The audit of such
financial statements will include: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal
control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody
of project financed assets; (ii) a determination as to whether the Borrower and project
implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; (iii)
verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and identification of
any ineligible expenditures; and (iv) the summary of Special Account (SA) activities and a
summary of statement of expenditure (SOE) disbursements. The SA and SOEs are to be
addresses separately by the auditor's opinion. SUCCE will ensure that an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, is contracted in sufficient time to carry out the required responsibilities,
including a review of the FMS at the beginning of project implementation.
Quality of Staff: To be able to monitor the accounts and prepare the required financial
statements for the proposed project, SUCCE and the other project implementing entities will have
available an adequate number and mix of skilled and experienced staff who understand the
relevant accounting concepts and government regulations, as mandated in the POM (Appendix 6)
as part of the SUCCE staff requirement. The staff that uphold the required internal control
system will maintain that financial records are reliable and complete and adhere to management
policies and proper recording and safeguarding of assets and resources.
Failure to Submit Acceptable Audited Financial Statements: If: (i) failure to submit
required audited financial statements by the due date; (ii) the auditor's opinion indicates



-65-
deficiencies in the accounting and internal controls (including ineligible expenditures) or in the
reliability of the financial statements; or (iii) the Bank considers the scope or quality of the audit
to be unacceptable, the Bank may take the following actions until acceptable audited financial
statements are received or a remedial action plan is agreed: (i) discontinues use of the SOE
procedure; (ii) replenishment of SA; (iii) suspension on all loan disbursements. These actions
would be taken by the Bank until adequate actions have been carried out by the Botrower.



-66-
Appendix 14
Monitoring: Performance Indicators and Implementation Plan
Indicator             Responsible   Unit   Jun498   Dec-8   Jun-99   Dec-99   Jun400   Dec400   Jun-01   Dec41    Total
Institution
Protection Phase (Northwest Provinces)
Cities/Towns           SUPCEs        no.                                                                                  11
Population             SUPCEs       no.                                                                              136,400
River cleaning         SUPCEs       m2    120,000  360,000  120,000                                                  600,000
Levee strengthening    SUPCEs        m3      60,000   25,000   15,000                                                100,000
Bridges                SUPCEs       no.         10       12        5                                        -             27
Schools                 SUPCEs      no.          4        9        3                                                      16
Health centers         SUPCEs       no           2        8         1                                                     11
Housing reconstruction  SUPCEs      no.                  40       20                                                      60
Staffed SUPCEs         SUPCEs       no.          3        3                                                                6
Civil Defense investment   SUCCE    US$mil      0.5      1.0      0.3         1 _                1 _        _            1.8
Rehabilitation Phase (Northwest Provinces)
Cities/Towns           SUPCEs       no.                                                                                   35
Population             SUPCEs       no.                                                                              234,682
Road infrastructure    SUPCEs       km                            80      150       110       60       40      10        450
Bridges                SUPCEs       no.                           25       36       50        10        5                126
Urban drainage         SUPCEs       no.                                      1       2                                     3
Schools                 SUPCEs       no.                           5        10       15        2                          32
Health centers         SUPCEs       no.                            7        10      10                                    27
Water intakes          SUPCEs        no.                                     1        1        1                           3
Housing reconstruction  SUPCEs      no.                           40       40       40        40       40      40        240
Sewage discharge       SUPCEs       no.                                               1                 1                  2
River defenses         SUPCEs        m2   _                             50,000   85,000  100,000   85,000   40,000 |  360,000
Rehabilitation Phase (Littoral Provinces)
Cities/Towns           SUPCEs        no.                                                                                  20
Population             SUPCEs       no.                                                                             1,000,000
Road infrastructure    SUPCEs       km          10       15       25        10                                            60
Bridges                SUPCEs       no.          7        5        3                                                      15
Urban drainage         SUPCEs       no.                   1        2         1        1                                    5
Schools                 SUPCEs       no.         5       10        10        2                                            27
Health centers         SUPCEs       no.                   1        1                                                       2
Levee strengthening    SUPCEs        m3      75,000  250,000  500,000  300,000  475,000  275,000  250,000  75,000  2,200,000
Sewage discharge       SUPCEs        no.                            1                                                      1
River defenses         SUPCEs  Im2   | 25,000 | 50,000 I 90,000 | 25,000 | 20,0001 _               _              |  210,000
Technical Assistance
Risk mapping study"     SUCCE    report    draft    final                                                                   1
Flood warning system'   SUCCE  |provinces]         1       31       3         1        1        1                          6
Uruguay Regional EIA2   SUCCE      report I _       f          draft _   final   _       _        _                ____1
Implementation Plan
Provincial debt law       PG    - passed          5        8                                                               13
Special Account         SUCCE    opened    Feb-98                                                                           I
POM                     SUCCE    adopted    Jan-98                                                                          1
Project reports         SUCCE   submited                   2        1        2        1        2        1                   9
FMS Review                       conducted   Jan-98                                                                         1
Project account audit            completed                   Year 1998         Year 1999         Year 2000                 43
Borrower supervision                SW           60       70       70       70       60       501      501      301       460
Loan Disbursement    |% _     _                  10       15       201      201      201       7        5        3        100
1-Northwestem Provinces
21-ttoral Province Environmental Impact Assessment
3-Fourth audit is for year 2001



MAP SECTION



A



BOLIVIA                    j               60             
SOUTH AMERICA
1k,
FX '; 0  U                   &'                                        f X   ' H. 1                             s.&     .  C :?  &- d              I
NTIAGO    45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR    
LI    /           -     s     H    _     _    -1 '       -       B-Th O       -±\
t ,    Cod6n&P&                           ±<RiOVvU .... .
-      . / J            S 5    (            NE G RO   Gd Ce,,           1J.:                                                                               -
.. A,R   %tXENflA
*        ,;)JE-                                      W                     EL NINO EMERGENRCY FLOD PROJECT
) ) LX ~CHUBUT                         . I                              (X- .I&  9:NAfEUMERGENCEkY
-DSW--- NATI CEONAL OADN
b Cy (~~~~~~~ 8 Xf ' ' 2~~~~~~~~RADtS [ET OLIT EORCO SSIONl
\o                                      DEL                       SEECTOISTtRAD
' ~  81  t       xHWC       &.                                          PORTS
,~~ ~ ~ ~~~ -                                                                          TRVIS  C4I )   S     0  W  F NrOL
54            ,7K       C R UZ  | /6&    -                       -        NERAIOA Nl B  ORNDARSES
51                                    **                                  ) gfT .. '"'''"'
-    *~~~~~~~-0
I ~ ~     ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~   AT                                                             60            060 StOM=lP-/EA_T
5 , -                _,               .,' . -, .<  - -... ' -   ,,  . . . ..'                      'h 5
(1 -s ......~~~~A.    I.                                                                                                                                W  . 7 _
--SAt4- U-AN    II f' 6MPS I,d.b,,S/E~55 
755' ~ ~  ~ ~ IB



