Report No. PID6031
Project Name                   Argentina-El Nino Emergency Flood Project (+)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Urban Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                       ARPE55935
Borrower                         The Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency              Sub-Unidad Central de Coordinacion para
la Emergencia
Unidad Ejecutora Central de la
Secretaria de Asistencia a las Provincias
Ministry of the Interior
Hipolito Yrigoyen 340, Piso 5, Oficina 5076
(1086) Buenos Aires, Capital Federal
Argentina
Telephone:       (54-1) 342-1030
Fax:             (54-1) 342-7395
Initial PID Date                 November 6, 1997
Project Appraisal Date           November 17, 1997
Project Board Date               January 20, 1998
Country and Sector Background:    In Argentina, El Nino events have
coincided with severe flooding in the Parand River basin. Since
1983 the strongest recorded floods of the century have occurred in
parallel with the strongest measured El Nino events. The 1982-83
event gave rise to the worst flooding in the Parand basin in the
twentieth century, with an estimated US$1.8 billion in economic
losses. Along with the flooding came incidences of disease
breakouts, given the damage to potable water and sanitation
facilities, and the collapse of other social infrastructure
services. On a smaller scale, the 1992 flood, which coincided with
the 1991-92 El Nino, also had a tremendous impact on the basin, with
economic losses at US$905 million and 3.1 million inhabitants flooded.
The signs of the 1997-98 El Nino have been present for several
months in the Parand basin, with the event being now measured as the
second strongest of the century, only behind that of the 1982-83 El
Nino. As a result of the event, southern Brazil has sustained
substantial rains which have flooded the Uruguay River, which
discharges directly into the Parand River delta. The Uruguay River
has historically not been a source of severe flooding until this
year, in which it exceed all previous values (in volume and
duration). Compounding the flooding problem this year is that the
Parand River has been flowing 1.5 meters above normal height all
year, thus impeding the Uruguay River from discharging into the
delta. The Parand River's elevation is abnormally high due to major
rainfall and a large accumulation of rainfall in the Pantanal (a
large wet-land region in southern Brazil and Paraguay), where normal
water height has been exceeded by roughly 2.0 meters since April 1997.



El Nino is now starting to affect the northwest of Argentina, as
unseasonably amounts of rainfall are producing flash floods. Full
impact of El Nino in the northwestern provinces is not expected
until June of 1998.
Beyond the obligation to attend to those affected by the exceptional
floods, the Government of Argentina plans to expand its structured
program to address the phenomenon that affects the Parand basin and
the alluvial basins of the arid and semi-arid regions of northwest
Argentina. The expansion of this program will be built upon the
successfully implemented strategy in the Parand basin provinces,
which have been supported by previous Bank loans.
Project Objectives:    The objective of this loan is to help finance
the development and implementation of a project to offset the
damaging impact of El Nino in: (i) the northwestern provinces of
Catamarca, Jujuy, La Rioja, Salta, Santiago del Estero, Tucuman, and
in the Cuyo provinces of Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis, and any
other province that could be affected by El Nino; and (ii) the seven
littoral provinces of Buenos Aires, El Chaco, Corrientes, Entre
Rios, Formosa, Misiones, and Santa Fe through additional works above
and beyond the Flood Protection Project (ARPE-6052). Specific
activities include helping to minimize loss or damage by
implementing protective measures and rehabilitate infrastructure and
related services to their state prior to the emergency. An
additional objective is to strengthen institutions in the
northwestern provinces to deal with flood emergencies.
Project Description:    The proposed project is based on the Bank's
strategy to assist countries that are likely to be affected by El
Nino. The project has been designed with two geographical
components: (i) one for the six northwestern provinces and the three
Cuyo provinces, and any other province that could be affected by El
Nino; and (ii) the second geographical component for the seven
participating littoral provinces of the Parand basin. A third
component is designed to strengthen the Sub-Unidad Central de
Coordinacion para la Emergencia's (SUCCE)--the project's
implementing unit at the federal level--administrative and technical
capacity to coordinate the implementation of the project. The
proposed operation is designed to be implemented in two distinct
phases: (a) a protection phase of about 12 months, for the
northwestern provinces; and (b) a rehabilitation phase for both
geographic regions, estimated to require up to three years. In
addition, the project includes, for the northwestern provinces, a
capacity-building subcomponent to manage flood emergencies and a
small scale housing subcomponent. The capacity-building
subcomponent calls for the establishment of a Sub-Unidad Provincial
de Coordinacion para la Emergencia (SUPCE) and strengthening of the
civil defense for each participating province except for those of
the littoral provinces for which there is no capacity-building
component because of the existing institutional mechanism in place
from the Flood Rehabilitation (ARPE-6051) and Flood Protection Projects.
Protection:   Works are expected to consist of:    (a) the Acquiring
of goods and execution of works for emergency river flood control
- 2 -



(including riverbed cleaning, levee and embankment strengthening,
and other river protection measures) and (b) protection of
infrastructure, such as bridges, health centers, and schools.
Rehabilitation: This phase will be fully ascertained during the
first few months of 1998. The eligibility of financing for any
rehabilitation activities would be contingent on damages sustained
from El Nino-related phenomena. Subproject categories include: (a)
transport infrastructure; (b) drainage systems; (c) health and
education facilities; (d) water supply and sewerage; and (e) river
dredging, defenses and embankments. Investment subprojects to be
financed under the rehabilitation phase would have to meet
eligibility criteria agreed upon with the Government.
Technical assistance:    This phase would finance:   (a) the
establishment of the SUPCEs in the northwestern provinces for
approximately three years; (b) equipment for civil defense
coordination, training, and flood forecasting; (c) regional
environmental studies, integrated with a regional flood-risk
mapping; and (d) detailed engineering studies for works and
inspection of such works during execution.
Institutional Strengthening: This phase would strengthen SUCCE's
administrative and technical capacity to coordinate implementation
of the project and would assist SUCCE to carry out its required
annual project accounts audit.
Housing: Reconstruction of housing would be administered on homes
destroyed or severely damaged through a program of grants and self-
help work. The eligibility criteria and the framework to implement
this subcomponent would be the same as that used successfully in the
Flood Rehabilitation Project.
Project Implementation:    The implementation arrangements would
remain essentially the same as those governing the ongoing Flood
Rehabilitation Project and Flood Protection Project. The proposed
project would be overseen by the Ministry of Interior's Secretariat
for Financial Assistance to the Provinces (SFAP). The SUCCE, a
subsidiary unit of SFAP's Central Executing Unit, would manage the
operation at the national level. The proposed loan however does
require a minimal strengthening of SUCCE in order to handle the
additional administrative demands brought on by the new project.
Since the Parand basin provinces already have strong executing units
(SUPCEs), provincial executing units will need to be established in
each affected northwest province.
SUCCE would be responsible for overall project management, including
providing orientation and technical assistance to the provinces in
preparing, approving, controlling, and monitoring project implementation.
At the provincial level the project would be implemented by the
corresponding SUPCE. The SUPCEs would be responsible for
procurement and contracting, subject to prior review by SUCCE.
Project Financing:    The total cost of the protection and
-3 -



rehabilitation phases is estimated to be US$60.0 million, of which
US$42.0 million would be financed from the proposed loan. The
remaining US$18.0 million is to be financed from the participating
provincial governments. The costs of the flood protection phase is
estimated to be US$15.0 million, while the rehabilitation phase is
expected to cost US$20.0 million for the northwestern provinces and
US$25.0 million for the littoral provinces.
Project Sustainability:    Argentina has a proven institutional
capacity for managing flood emergencies in the littoral provinces
through the established SUCCE/SUPCE system. Furthermore, Argentina
has the ability to expand this flood management system into the
northwestern provinces based on its experience acquired nationally
and in the Parand provinces. Sustainability of the rehabilitation
works will be achieved through the use of technical criteria and
cost-effective methodologies, and the institutional capacity that
the project will develop.
Lessons Learned:    The main lesson learned is that physical
rehabilitation alone is not sufficient to reduce the future flood
damage and thus sustain project benefits, as well as safeguard the
people and communities at risk. Therefore, a combination of
structural and non-structural measures must be taken. Physical
actions should be developed with the capacity to manage emergencies
at provincial and local levels.   The successful progress made in the
Flood Rehabilitation Project can be replicated by applying the
following principles:   (i) using investments simple and easy to
implement; (ii) using a flexible project design that is not over-
specified; (iii) ensuring participation of interested provinces with
adequate counterpart financing from the tax revenue sharing system;
(iv) maintaining competent local executing units with the capacity
to deal with emergencies; and (v) enabling flexibility to shift
funds among eligible provinces.
Environmental Aspects:    This is a category B project.   Because all
works involve the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure or the
protection from floods, negative environmental impacts are not
expected. The project will continue with the best-practice approach
of the ongoing Flood Protection Project. The works in this proposed
project would be revised from an environmental point of view to:
(i) guarantee protection of existing infrastructure and prevent
urban development from expanding into high-risk zones; (ii) generate
minimal interference in the natural process of flooding; and (iii)
minimally affect the sensitive ecosystems of the regions. All
subprojects will comply with these three conditions. In parallel,
as the proposed project is being carried out, a regional
environmental assessment of the area affected by the 100-year flood
of the Uruguay River will be executed following a similar
methodology used to assess the Parand River during preparation of
the Flood Protection Project. The works in the northwestern
provinces will be subject to a regional study of the designated
long-term activities, including an environmental analysis and flood-
risk mapping for selected basins. The project will not affect the
quality or quantity of water flows to other riparian. No
involuntary resettlement is foreseen in this project.
- 4 -



Project Benefits:    The main social and economic benefits of the
proposed project are restoration of the damaged economic
infrastructure and related services essential for the welfare of the
population and economic activities, facilitating Argentina's
competitiveness within MERCOSUR. Furthermore, the proposed project
would improve the northwestern provinces and the Government's
ability to manage future flood emergencies by creating mechanisms
for coordinating the institutions involved, establishing a flood
warning system, and conducting a detailed evaluation, in each of the
northwestern provinces, of risks associated with floods.
Project Risks Considered:    The main risk of this emergency
assistance operation derives from the uncertainty of the 1997-98 El
Nino's intensity and precise geographic impact in the northwestern
provinces. Other risks have been considered, such as institutional
risks, where there is a risk of inadequate management and control of
the program because of administrative weaknesses in the northwestern
provinces. Counterpart funding during the project is a risk,
however the required provincial funds are relatively small in
comparison to annual receipts.
Program Objective Categories:    The project aims to help the
environmentally sustainable development of the provinces by avoiding
further economic losses caused by frequent floods. Project
implementation will generate a job demand in the construction sector
and other sectors such as transport, goods supply and other
services. The housing component, in particular, would improve
considerably the living conditions of their inhabitants, mostly
lower-income segments of the population
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 27, 1998
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental
Definition and Objectives:
Environmental management procedures to be used during execution of
the emergency loan are the same as those established for the ongoing
Flood Protection Project. With minor adjustments, the existing
institutional capacity within SUCCE can provide the quality of
scoping, screening, environmental and social assessment, and
supervision of works as needed. Furthermore, with the understanding
that all works involve the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure
or the protection from floods, no significant negative impacts are
expected. All works would be revised from an environmental point of
view to: (i) guarantee protection of existing infrastructure and of
the non-expansion of urban development into high-risk zones; (ii)
generate minimal interference in the natural process of the
floodings; and (iii) produce a minimal effect on the sensitive
ecosystems of the regions. All sub-projects will comply with these
conditions. In parallel, the design of systems will be subject to
an existing Environmental Manual (prepared under the Flood
Protection Project), which mitigates the environmental risks from
the construction phase. This manual, developed for the littoral
provinces, will also be used in the participating provinces of the
Northwest.
Expected Impacts:
Continuing with the best-practice approach of the ongoing Flood
Protection Project, negative impacts are expected to be minimal.
Sub-projects will be screened according to the environmental
criteria agreed upon, which are at heart based on a "living with
floods" strategy. In addition, any negative impacts to occur on
the most part would be highly localized and short lived. This
project does contain a pilot low-income housing sub-project for the
northwestern provinces. There is no involuntary resettlement
contemplated in this sub-project, as housing would be built on
existing land for which legal tenure exists through voluntary and
self-construction mechanisms.
-6-



