Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4273-AR
Loan Agreement
(El Niño Emergency Flood  Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 6, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4273-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 6, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A.1 through A.5 and B of the Project will be carried out by the 
Participating Provinces with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Participating Provinces the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
Page  2
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"El Niño Phenomenon" means the appearance, from time to time, of 
anomalously warm sea surface temperatures in the Central and Eastern Pacific Ocean 
near to the equator, which causes unusual changes in normal climate patterns around 
the globe, including the Eastern and Western coastal region of South America;
(b)
"Emergency Subproject" means a Littoral Emergency Subproject or a 
Northwestern Emergency Subproject;
(c)
"Littoral Emergency Subproject" means the investments made or to be made 
and the provision of technical assistance under Part B of the Project by a Littoral 
Participating Province and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan;
(d)
"Littoral Participating Provinces" means the following provinces of the 
Borrower: Buenos Aires, Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Misiones and Santa Fe;
(e)
"Northwestern Emergency Subproject" means the investments made or to be 
made and the provision of technical assistance under Parts A.1 through A.5 of the 
Project and to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan;
(f)
"Northwestern Participating Provinces" means the following provinces of 
the Borrower:  Catamarca, Jujuy, La Rioja, Mendoza, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, 
Santiago del Estero, Tucumán and any other province, acceptable to the Bank, which may 
be affected or has been affected by El Niño Phenomenon;
(g)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower’s manual referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the 
approval of the Bank;
(h)
"Participating Province" means a Littoral Participating Province or a 
Northwestern Participating Province;
(i)
"SAFP" means Secretaría de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias, the 
Secretariat for Financial Assistance to the Provinces of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
the Interior; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower and each Participating Province pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time , and such term 
includes all schedules to each Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(l)
"SUCCE" means the Borrower's Sub-unidad Central de Coordinación para la 
Emergencia, the Central Emergency Coordination Sub-unit of SAFP’s Central Executive 
Unit, as defined in the Operational Manual; and
(m)
"SUPCE" means each Participating Province's Sub-unidad Provincial de 
Coordinación para la Emergencia, the Provincial Emergency Coordination Sub-unit of the 
Provincial Executive Unit, as defined in the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to 
forty-two million Dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a  special deposit account in Banco de la Nación Argentina on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include 
the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
Page  4
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six  months’ notice to the  Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 15 and August 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
(i) 
coordinate and administer the execution of the Project as a whole 
and specifically carry out Parts A.6 and C of the Project, through 
SUCCE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project; and
(ii)
cause: (A) the Northwestern Participating Provinces to carry out 
Parts A.1 through A.5 of the Project; and (B) the Littoral 
Participating Provinces to carry out Part B of the Project, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the corresponding Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. 
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.6 and C of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of an operational manual, acceptable to the Bank, and which shall 
include, inter alia, detailed guidelines (including environmental guidelines) for the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall onlend part of  the proceeds of the Loan to each 
Participating Province under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and each Participating Province under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce 
any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall ensure that SUCCE is adequately staffed with an executive director ("Jefe 
Ejecutivo") assisted by administrative support staff in adequate numbers, a Project 
supervisor (to provide independent Project monitoring services and reports directly to 
SAFP), a minimum complement of consultants (all with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank), and that it has an appropriate administrative organization, 
all in accordance with the Operational Manual.
(b)
The Borrower, through SAFP, shall provide to the Bank, promptly after 
they become available to SAFP, the reports of the Project supervisor referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.05. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation on the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
(through SUCCE) shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than each April 30, August 31 
and December 31 (starting not later than August 31, 1998), a progress report on 
implementation of the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank (such report to be 
prepared under the supervision of the Project supervisor referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement).
(b)
The Borrower (through SUCCE and together with the Participating 
Provinces) shall hold annual reviews of Project implementation with the Bank in the 
first trimester of every year during Project implementation, beginning in 1999.
(c)
The annual review to be carried out in 1999 shall in particular focus on: 
(i) verifying that Participating Provinces are complying with their counterpart 
funding obligations and in general with the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; 
(ii) determining the specific rehabilitation works to be carried out by each 
Participating Province under the Emergency Subprojects; and (iii) establishing the 
amount of the Loan to be onlent to one or more Participating Provinces which has not 
been committed as of the date of such annual review. 
(d)    As a result of the annual review to be carried out in 1999, the Bank may, 
without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 6.03 of the General 
Conditions terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to the 
amounts of the Loan allocated to carry out Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project if  the 
anticipated floods to be caused by the El Niño Phenomenon have not occurred in 1998 in 
the Northwestern Participating Provinces.
(e)
The annual review to be carried out in 2000 shall in particular focus on: 
(i) verifying that Participating Provinces are complying with their counterpart 
funding obligations and in general with the terms of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; 
and (ii) establishing the amount of the Loan to be onlent to one or more Participating 
Provinces which has not been committed as of the date of such annual review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
Participating Provinces and the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  6
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any Participating Province will be able to perform its obligations under its 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and at least one Participating Province;
(b)
that there be operational, for each  Participating Province for which a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement is entered into in satisfaction of the condition set forth 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, a SUPCE with an administrative organization as set 
forth in the Operational Manual;
(c)
that all action has been taken by each Participating Province for which a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement is entered into in satisfaction of the condition set forth 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, in order to permit that the procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan be 
carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement; and
(d)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by SAFP and is in effect.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
Page  7
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into in satisfaction of the 
condition set forth in Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the Participating Province in question, and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and such Participating Province in accordance with the terms 
of such Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(b)
that the action referred to in Section 6.01(c) of this Agreement has been 
taken and no other action on behalf of such Participating Province in question is 
required to permit the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement. 
Section 6.03. The date August 6, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower  is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
With copy to:
Ministerio del Interior
Secretaría de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias
Hipólito Yrigoyen 340 (piso 5)
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández 
Authorized Representative
Page  8
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna Alexander 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
62%
(a)
for Emergency
15,000,000
Littoral Subprojects
(b)
for Emergency
13,200,000
Northwestern Subprojects
(2)
Goods for Emergency
 2,200,000
81%
Northwestern Subprojects
and for Part A.6 of the Project
(3)
Construction materials
       1,700,000
90%
for Emergency Northwestern
Subprojects (Part A.4 of 
the Project)
(4)
Consultants’ services
100%
(a)
for Emergency Littoral     700,000
Subprojects
(b)
for Emergency North-
 8,800,000
western Subprojects 
and for Part A.6
of the Project
(5)
Consultants’ and audit   
   400,000
100%
services for Part C 
of the Project
TOTAL
42,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$8,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures for works 
and goods under Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the Project before that date but after July 
1, 1997;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2), (3), (4) 
(b) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
finance a Northwestern Emergency Subproject unless: 
(i)
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and a Northwestern Participating Province; 
Page  9
(ii)
a SUPCE has been established with an administrative organization 
as set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(iii)
all action has been taken by such Northwestern Participating 
Province to permit that the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan 
be carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement; and 
(iv)
an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank have been furnished to the Bank, providing 
that: 
(A) 
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and such Northwestern Participating 
Province, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such 
Northwestern Participating Province in accordance with the 
terms of such Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(B) 
that the action referred to in subparagraph (iii) herein has 
been taken by such Northwestern Participating Province and 
that no other action on each such Northwestern Participating 
Province is required to permit the procurement of goods, 
works and consultants’ services in accordance with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (4)(a) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to finance a 
Littoral Emergency Subproject unless: 
(i) 
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and a Littoral Participating Province; 
(ii) 
all action has been taken by such Littoral Participating Province 
to permit that the procurement of goods, works and consultants’  
services to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan be carried 
out in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement; and 
(iii)
an opinion or opinions, satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank have been furnished to the Bank, providing 
that: 
(A)
such Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and such Littoral Participating 
Province, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and such 
Littoral Participating Province in accordance with the terms 
of such Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(B) 
that the action referred to in subparagraph (ii) herein has 
been taken by such Littoral Participating Province and that 
no other action on each such Northern Participating Province 
is required to permit the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services in accordance with the provisions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods (except 
for pumps, electromechanical equipment, bailey bridges, earth moving equipment and 
construction materials under Part A.4 of the Project) estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent with the exception of the first two contracts or bid packages 
for such goods per calendar year to be awarded under Parts C.1 (a) and C.2 (a) of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for the construction of 
materials under Part A.4 of the Project to be awarded under Part C.4 of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for works estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent with the exception of the first two contracts or bid packages 
for works per calendar year to be awarded under Parts C.1(b) and C.3 of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (d) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent; and (e) contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist: (a) the Northwestern Participating 
Provinces in the protection of infrastructure which may be damaged or has been damaged 
as a result of the El Niño Phenomenon; (b) the Northwestern Participating Provinces 
and the Littoral Participating Provinces in the rehabilitation of infrastructure which 
has been damaged as a result of the El Niño Phenomenon; and (c) the Northwestern 
Participating Provinces in the establishment and strengthening of the institutional 
capacity of the SUPCEs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Northwestern Participating Provinces:
1.
Carrying out of protective investments prior to the impact of the El Niño 
Phenomenon, such as: river bed cleaning, strengthening of river defenses (including 
levees, embankments and other related river protection investments) and strengthening 
of other infrastructure as provided in the Operational Manual.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment necessary to manage the excess of river 
water flows to be caused by the El Niño Phenomenon.
3.
Carrying out of rehabilitation investments such as: river dredging, levees, 
embankments and other river defenses,  transport infrastructure, storm drainage 
facilities, water supply and sewerage systems, and school and health facilities and 
any other similar investments as provided in the Operational Manual to rehabilitate 
infrastructure which has been damaged as a result of the El Niño Phenomenon.
4.
Provision of materials for reconstruction by affected residents of housing 
severely damaged or destroyed by the El Niño Phenomenon, as set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
5.
(a) Establishment and operation of SUPCEs, including the provision of technical 
assistance services; and (b) provision of technical assistance to each Northwestern 
Participating Province for:  (i) the  preparation of the engineering designs of the 
works to be carried out under Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project; and (ii) the 
carrying out of the supervision of the works mentioned in (i) herein.    
6.
(a) Strengthening of the Northwestern Participating Provinces’ civil defense 
coordination and flood protection capacity through the acquisition and utilization of 
equipment and the provision of training; (b) preparation of a regional flood-risk map 
to assist the Northwestern Participating Provinces in the selection of  investments to 
be included under Northwestern Emergency Subprojects; and (c) carrying out of an 
environmental study within the area covered by such regional flood-risk map.
Part B:
Littoral  Participating Provinces
1.
Carrying out of  rehabilitation investments in river dredging, levees, 
embankments and other river defenses, transport infrastructure, storm drainage 
facilities, water supply and sewerage systems, and school and health facilities and 
any other similar investments as provided in the Operational Manual to rehabilitate 
infrastructure which has been damaged as a result of the El Niño Phenomenon.
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to each Littoral Participating Province for: 
(a) the preparation of the engineering designs of the works to be carried out under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and (b) the carrying out of the supervision of the works 
mentioned in (a) herein.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening    
Strengthening of SUCCE’s administrative and technical capacity to coordinate 
implementation of the Project, including its capacity to carry out Project account 
audits and to provide technical assistance to Participating Provinces under the 
Project.
* * *
Page  11
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2003
through February 15, 2013
2,100,000
_____________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each and $5,000,000 
equivalent or more each, respectively.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part C.1, 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $35,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Pumps, electromechanical equipment, bailey bridges and earth moving 
equipment (including rented equipment) under Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and B.1 of the 
Project and costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works which are required to respond to the El Niño Phenomenon and costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$500,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Construction Materials under Part A.4 of the Project
Construction materials under Part A.4 of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified 
domestic suppliers per Northwestern Participating Province in response to a written 
Page  13
invitation.  The invitation shall include an itemized list of the materials and their 
quantities, required for the construction of one standard house, to be made available 
by the supplier.  For each of the materials, the lowest price offered by a supplier 
who has the experience and resources to provide such material will be designated as 
the reference price of that material in the Northwestern Participating Province.  That 
supplier, as well as any other suppliers who also agree in writing with the relevant 
Northwestern Participating Province to offer the reference price or a lower price, 
shall be authorized to supply construction materials to builders under Part A.4 of the 
Project against the presentation by those builders of vouchers which the supplier 
would subsequently present to the relevant Northwestern Participating Province in 
return for the offered price of the materials in question.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of 
this Section; (b) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods per calendar year 
procured under Part C.1 (a) of this Section; and (c) the first two contracts or bid 
packages for works per calendar year procured under Part C.1 (b) of this Section.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts or bid packages for goods 
per calendar year procured under Part C.2 of this Section; and (ii) the first two 
contracts or bid packages for works per calendar year procured under Part C.3 of this 
Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, as the case 
may be, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997  (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof  applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services under Parts A.5, A.6, B.2 and C of the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
\0c2.
Individual Consultants
Page  14
Services under Parts A.5, A.6, B.2 and C of the Project, estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(e)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 1 (a) and 
(c) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where 
pertinent) and terms of reference shall be required.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $4,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the amount of 
$6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  15
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  16
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Each Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain terms and conditions whereby:
1.
The Borrower agrees:
(a)
to onlend to the Participating Province an amount of the Loan proceeds 
calculated in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual on terms and 
conditions identical, mutatis mutandis, to those of the Loan;
(b)
through SUCCE, promptly to approve all Emergency Subprojects for which 
the Participating Province has presented final technical specifications and proposed 
bidding documents which satisfy the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(c)
through SUCCE, promptly to give its no-objection to all contracts and 
procurement procedures submitted to SUCCE for prior review pursuant to paragraph 2 (j) 
of this Schedule (if such contracts and procedures comply with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement).
2.
The Participating Province agrees:
(a)
to repay to the Borrower the Loan proceeds onlent to the Participating 
Province, as well as pay to the Borrower all interest, commitment fees and other 
charges in connection with those onlent proceeds, on terms and conditions identical, 
mutatis mutandis, to those of the Loan;
(b)
to allow the Participating Province's payment obligations referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule to be secured by its co-participation funds as set 
forth in the Borrower's law no. 23548, or such other new law or rule as may be 
applicable in the future, as well as allow such co-participation funds to be applied 
within the Participating Province for Project purposes directly by the Borrower in 
those instances when the Participating Province fails to meet its counterpart funding 
obligations referred to in paragraph 2 (i) of this Schedule;
(c)
to apply to the Borrower for withdrawal of proceeds under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement by presenting documentation to the Borrower of such nature as would be 
acceptable by the Bank for processing withdrawal applications presented by the 
Borrower under this Agreement;
(d)
to maintain, throughout the course of Project implementation, a SUPCE 
through the Participating Province, such SUPCE to be at all times during Project 
implementation staffed with an executive director ("Jefe Ejecutivo") assisted by 
administrative support staff in adequate numbers, a minimum complement of consultants 
(all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank) and to have an 
appropriate administrative organization, all in accordance with the Operational 
Manual;
(e)
to present to SUCCE final technical specifications and proposed bidding 
documents for Emergency Subprojects within the Participating Province;
(f)
to carry out all SUCCE-approved Emergency Subprojects within the 
Participating Province with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, engineering and environmental 
practices, as well as in accordance with the Operational Manual;
(g)
not to carry out any works under an Emergency Subproject which:  (i) 
adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to other riparians; and (iii) 
Page  17
will be adversely affected by the other riparians’ possible water use;
(h)
in the case of a Northwestern Participating Province, specifically with 
regard to Part A.4 of the Project, and as part of the obligations referred to in 
paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (i) of this Schedule:  (A) to provide technical and social 
assistance to beneficiaries under Part A.4 of the Project; and (B) consider as 
eligible to be such beneficiaries only those heads of household who:
(I)
voluntarily apply for benefits under Part A.4 of the 
Project;
(II)
have income under the poverty level required to qualify for 
welfare assistance;
(III)
live in a flood-prone area in a dwelling incapable of 
resisting floods;
(IV)
have lived in that dwelling continuously over at least five 
years and have no other dwelling or real estate or resources 
to obtain such other dwelling or real estate on their own;
(V)
agree in writing with the Northwestern Participating 
Province to provide all the labor required to build the new 
dwelling under Part A.4 of the Project, to live in that new 
dwelling for at least five years and to abide by the 
conditions associated with Part A.4 of the Project; and
(VI)
(I) have legal possession of the land on, and dwelling in, 
which they live; or (II) if they plan to build the new 
dwelling under Part A.4 of the Project on a different site 
from that of the prior dwelling, have legal possession of 
that different site or written permission to build from the 
owner of that different site (so as to avoid resettlement 
issues, in no case may a new dwelling be built other than on 
the site of the prior dwelling or in the same neighborhood 
as the prior dwelling); and (III) distribute vouchers 
(exchangeable for building materials at local supply 
outlets) on a grant basis to beneficiaries under Part A.4 of 
the Project and pay materials suppliers for the value of 
such vouchers after the vouchers have been properly 
redeemed;
(i)
to provide promptly as needed the facilities, services and other 
resources required for carrying out Emergency Subprojects within the Participating 
Province;
(j)
to procure works, goods and services in respect of its activities under 
the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and submit all contracts and 
procurement procedures to prior review by SUCCE;
(k)
to maintain records and separate accounts in respect of its activities 
under the Project, and allow or carry out audits thereof, so as to permit timely 
compliance with the terms of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(l)
to carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) 
in respect of its activities under the Project;
(m)
to participate in the annual reviews referred to in, and provide the 
reports required in order to comply with the terms of, Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
and
(n)
to accept applicability to the Participating Province of the provisions 
of the Operational Manual.
Page  18
