                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32300

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-42730)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                FOR AN

                              EL NIÑO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT




                                              June 29, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
                                  AR$2.93 = US$ 1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -   December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APA    Asociación Provincial del Agua / Provincial Water Association
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DiPAS  Dirección Provincial del Agua y Saneamiento / Provincial Water and Wastewater
       Directorate
GoA    Government of Argentina
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
SAFP   Secretaría de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias / Financial Assistance to
       Provinces Secretariat
SUCCE  Subunidad Central de Coordinación para la Emergencia / Central Subunit for
       Emergency Coordination
SUPCE  Subunidad Provincial de Coordinación para la Emergencia / Provincial Subunit for
       Emergency Coordination
TA     Technical Assistance
UEC    Unidad Ejecutora Central / Central Executing Unit
UEP    Unidad Ejecutora Provincial / Provincial Executing Unit
UCPFE  Unidad Coordinadora de Programas con Financiamiento Externo/Coordinating Unit
       for Programs with International Financing




                           Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                          Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                  Sector Manager/Director      John H. Stein/Makhtar Diop
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Maryse Gautier

                                        ARGENTINA
                     AR EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1.
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           6.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           13.
6. Sustainability                                                               16.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                18.
8. Lessons Learned                                                              21.
9. Partner Comments                                                             24.
10. Additional Information                                                      35.
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            38.
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            39.
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            41.
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            42.
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            44.
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               45.
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           46.

Project ID: P055935                                                  Project Name: AR EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Maryse Gautier                                          TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR EL NINO EMERGENCY FLOOD PROJECT L/C/TF Number: SCL-42730
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (44%); General
                            transportation sector (44%); Sub-national government
                            administration (7%); Housing construction (4%); Central
                            government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Water
                            resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/12/1997                                     Effective: 10/08/1998                10/08/1998
     Appraisal: 11/17/1997                                         MTR:                             12/14/1998
      Approval: 01/20/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/SUB-UNIDAD CENTRAL DE COORDINACION PARA LA
                                           EMERGENCIA(SUCCE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Abel Mejía
Team Leader at ICR:             Maryse Gautier                                 Adrien Campbell
ICR Primary Author:             Carolina Marcela Piedrafita;
                                Maryse Gautier


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the proposed project was to help the Government of Argentina (GoA)'s strategy
to finance the development and implementation of actions to offset the damaging effects of the El
Niño phenomenon in the: (i) northwestern provinces of: Catamarca, Jujuy, La Rioja, Salta,
Santiago del Estero, Tucumán and the Cuyo provinces of Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis; and
(ii) seven littoral provinces of: Buenos Aires, Chaco, Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Formosa, Misiones
and Santa Fe, through additional works above and beyond the Flood Protection Project (Ln
4117-AR). The specific project activities included assisting in the minimizing of loss or damage by
way of protection actions and the rehabilitation of infrastructure and related services to their
existing state prior to emergency. An additional objective was to strengthen the existing
institutions in the northwestern provinces to deal with flood emergencies.

The rationale for Bank assistance as stated in the Technical Annex was to help keep the affected
regions on an economic and social development track through a systematic and cost-effective
protection and rehabilitation program. The project was designed in an emergency context as a
continuation for the Flood Rehabilitation Project (Ln 3521-AR) that had completed works in the
Littoral provinces by 1999, and to complement the efforts of the Flood Protection Project that
was still under execution in the same littoral provinces at the time of approval. Thus, El Niño
Emergency project was part of a set of projects that aimed at creating a sustainable system for
flood prevention and control in the provinces most affected by El Niño related phenomena.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The proposed project supported the Bank's effort to assist countries that would be affected by the
El Niño phenomenon. The project was designed with two geographical components, one for the
northwestern provinces and one for seven littoral provinces of the Paraná basin. A third
component was included to address the incremental strengthening of SUCCE (Subunidad Central
de Coordinación para la Emergencia)'s administrative and technical capacity to coordinate the
implementation of the project, including its capacity to carry out project account audits. The
proposed operation was designed to be implemented in two distinct phases: (a) a protection phase
of about 12 months for the northwestern provinces; and (b) a rehabilitation phase for both
geographic regions, initially estimated to require up to four years. In addition, the project
included, for the northwestern provinces, a capacity building subcomponent to manage flood
emergencies. This component would establish a SUPCE (Subunidad Provincial de Coordinación
para la Emergencia) in each province, foster civil defense strengthening and set up a small-scale
housing subcomponent. There was not a provincial institutional capacity sub-component for the
littoral provinces because of the institutional mechanism already in existence from the Flood
Rehabilitation and Flood Protection Projects.




                                                - 2 -

Protection Works (US$10.0 million) for northwest region. This component was aimed at
financing strengthening and maintenance measures in the northwestern provinces of key river
defense activities such as levees, embankment protection, channel bed cleaning and debris
removal, along with the construction of primary drainage canals. The works were viewed in terms
of controlling waters originating from outside the urban zone while controlling and channeling
water originated within the protected urban zone to the outside. Transport infrastructure was
addressed through strengthening the bridges and adjacent road embankments from the scouring
effects of bottlenecked waters. The inclusion of this phase was intended to take a pro-active
approach to placing investments in high-risk locations prior to the expected heavy rainfall, so as to
lessen the economic and social disruption of the La Niña event that tends to follow El Niño.

Rehabilitation Works (US$38.2 million) for both regions. Rehabilitation works were to be
undertaken immediately in the littoral provinces, in particular those provinces located along the
Uruguay River and in the rural provincial interior locations. These works would vary in
magnitude, depending on the geographical impact of El Niño and whether the protection works
were executed in locations in which the most amount of damage was avoided. The list of
rehabilitation works included: (i) health and education facilities; (ii) transport infrastructure,
specifically bridges; (iii) river dredging, embankment defense, and drainage; (iv) channel clean up;
(v) water supply and sewerage (northwest only); and (vi) drainage works. The Board approved
the project before the list of rehabilitation works to be financed for the northwestern provinces
was settled.

Technical Assistance (US$9.9 Million). Technical assistance (TA) for the proposed project was
essentially for the northwestern provinces, except for: (i) the engineering and supervision of
works to be carried out in the littoral component (US$666,000); and (ii) the strengthening of
SUCCE's administrative and technical capacity (US$450,000), including project accounts
auditing (US$400,000), whose cost would be shared by all participating provinces. TA for the
littoral provinces in terms of regional studies, flood warning systems, civil defense capacity and
others were defined in the Flood Protection Project and thus would be funded through that loan.

The TA sub-component for the northwest encompassed many of the items covered for the littoral
provinces under the Flood Protection project, which were: (i) the establishment of a SUPCE in
each participating province and its institutional strengthening (US$3.6 million); (ii) civil defense
strengthening capacity (US$1.8 million) through training and development of a provincial
emergency plan, acquisition of communication equipment and flood forecasting technology (all
acquisition of equipment to be undertaken by SUCCE); (iii) housing technical assistance
(US$186,000); (iv) a regional environmental study (US$2.1 million) to be integrated with the
regional flood­risk mapping, undertaken by SUCCE (environmental assessment of the whole
region and recommended necessary measures to reduce the impact of floods, especially in those
zones where periodic flooding affect sensitive ecosystems); and (v) basic and detailed engineering
designs and engineering supervision during construction (US$656,000).

The TA assistance was fundamental to the establishment of a long-term strategy in flood
management coordination, and to achieve the project development objective of sustainability. The
regional flood-risk study for the northwestern provinces was expected to delineate within basins



                                                 - 3 -

of the northwest the basic notion of where defense investment should be located and where new
development should occur. It was calculated that to carry out the institutional strengthening
through the creation of a SUPCE and the strengthening of civil defense capacity, an estimated
1,500 man-months would be required for three years, or roughly the contracting of six to seven
individuals per year for each province in the northwestern component.

Housing (US$1.9 million). This sub-component was assigned to serve as a mechanism for
institutional capacity building to the newly created SUPCEs of the northwestern provinces. Given
that the housing process was being introduced, each new SUPCE would be designated 50 housing
units and it would be implemented with the guidance of SUCCE, which successfully supervised
the execution of more than 5,900 housing units under the Flood Rehabilitation Project.

The rationale for this component was that a voluntary self-construction housing system would be
provided for low-income families located in areas highly vulnerable to floods or to those families
who have had their dwelling severely damaged or destroyed by the flooding in the northwestern
provinces. Their new houses would be constructed in higher areas close to their present sites or in
their present sites with elevated foundations, if possible, to minimize dislocation. The housing
units would be designed based on the same criteria established in the Flood Protection Project.
The housing units would be of 43m2, with two bedrooms, a multi-use room, a shaded area and
water and drainage installations for the kitchen and bathroom. The cost of each unit would be
about US$6,200.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components have not been revised. However, there were some changes in project design
since appraisal, mainly related to the pool of participating provinces and the technical assistance
component.

The final pool of participating provinces differed from the one detailed in the Technical Annex
since some of the provinces that had been given initial priority were in the end unable to sign their
debt laws and thus couldn't provide their counterpart funds. A slightly different group of
provinces was thus selected. As the Bank's Board approved the project, signing the provincial
debt law became a condition for effectiveness. By that time, it became clear that some of the
pre-designated provinces were either subject to strict laws that forbade them to contract more
debt, or were allowed to do so but couldn't access any funds. Due to the emergency context and
also due to the fact that the risk of delays in signing debt laws had been identified at appraisal, the
Loan Agreement was flexible enough to allow for loan funds to be distributed among any of the
affected provinces that were ready to sign their debt loans, regardless of the pre-selection that had
been made at appraisal.1 For such reason, the project ended up serving seven provinces: La Rioja,
Salta, Tucuman, Misiones, Chaco, Córdoba and Chubut. Thus, the Loan Agreement was signed
on the 6th of May of 1998, and the project was declared effective on the 6th of October of 1998
with the signing of La Rioja's debt law (only one province had to sign to make the whole loan
effective). The rest of the provinces joined in between the months of February 1999 (Misiones)
and April 2000 (Tucumán). This last province took 23 months after Board approval to become
effective. In the end, two Littoral provinces, Chaco and Misiones, joined the project as initially
planned, while Corrientes, Entre Ríos, Formosa and Santa Fe did not enter. Also, the



                                                  - 4 -

northwestern provinces of Salta, La Rioja and Tucuman signed in while Catamarca, Jujuy,
Santiago del Estero, Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis did not. The provinces of Córdoba and
Chubut joined in last after severe floods, since they met the eligibility criteria established in the
Loan Agreement.

The peso devaluation had a minor impact on the project scope and cost since the project was
substantially advanced at the time of the financial crisis: 93% of the project was committed and
53% disbursed by August 31, 2001. At the same date, US$20 million subprojects were even fully
completed.

Another move from the original project design was that the Technical Assistance component
could not be completed as planned. The two main non-structural measures: (a) the strengthening
capacity of the civil defense through training that was accompanied by the development of a
provincial emergency plan and the acquisition of communication equipment and flood forecasting
technology for the northwestern provinces; and (b) the regional environmental study to be
                                               2


integrated with the regional flood-risk mapping, were not successfully carried out. By the end of
                                                  3


2003 it became evident that demand for subcomponent (a) had been either overestimated or badly
assessed, while subcomponent (b), the regional environmental study, would not be completed as
planned. These two activities represented the bulk of funds allocated to this subcomponent. In
spite of that, the portion of funds destined to finance the SUCCEs and the northwestern SUPCEs
was successfully used with satisfactory results, and so did the amount allocated for carrying out
engineering and supervision works for the littoral provinces.

Furthermore, the closing date for the project as stated in the Technical Annex was the 31st of
March of 2001, but this date was extended twice due to the delays that resulted from the severe
recession in the late 1990's and the severe crisis affecting the country starting in 2001. The
additional time granted by the extensions was three years and seven months. The first extension
was granted on the 21st of March of 2001 until December 31st of 2003. The second extension
was granted on the 23rd of December of 2003 until the 31st of December of 2004. The main
reason for the first extension was the provinces' lag in signing their debt laws in the context of the
tequila crisis (1998), which delayed project effectiveness. The second extension was granted due
to problems with implementation caused by the effects of the financial crisis and the peso
devaluation in January 2002. As happens in almost all financial crises, price volatility and fears of
inflation caused all construction works to halt. For a year or more no new contracts were signed.
Also, the formula for price re-determination--crucial tool to redefine the costs of public
construction works --which had to be agreed between the GoA and the Bank took until
September of 2002 to be released with a Governmental decree. After that, the Bank took until
December 2002 to issue instructions to use the formula. After various steps to make the project
operational it was only fully so in June 2003. These delays in issuing and making the formula fully
operational affected all projects in Argentina during the period.4

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Although the present emergency assistance operation was
not included in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed at the Board on
May 15, 1997, it fully supported its objectives. These were to: (a) enhance social development,



                                                 - 5 -

including poverty alleviation and human resource development; (b) improve the performance and
institutional capacity of the government, particularly subnational governments, to deliver key
social, infrastructure and environmental services; and (c) make successful structural reforms,
including enhancement of governance through institution building. The project advanced the badly
required infrastructure base in the flood-prone areas and further enhanced the provinces' capacity
to implement projects in an efficient way. It had great impact on the poorer northwestern
provinces where there was no prior technical expertise in flood protection works and
nonstructural measures. By further protecting flood affected areas it helped preserve their
economic importance and their connection to MERCOSUR. Also, by minimizing social and
economic disruption the project contributed to the GoA's long-term strategy of economic growth
and poverty alleviation.

Further reasons for the satisfactory rating are: (i) the fulfillment of a government request for an
emergency operation in two months; (ii) the demonstrated capacity of the central and local
implementing agencies to carry out their duties; (iii) the adequate project design to account for
institutional constraints and to incorporate flexibility for fund allocation among provinces at first
and among project categories later; and (iv) the effective risk assessment on the potential delay of
provincial debt laws allowed the team to deal with the problem swiftly when it occurred.

The project design lacked detailed information in the Technical Annex of the objectives and
implementation steps related to the non-structural measure supposed to strengthen civil defense,
carry out provincial strategic plans and acquire communication equipment and flood forecasting
technology. A previously agreed provincial needs assessment, an accurate proposal and an
implementation plan could have helped the project team to carry out this nonstructural measure
satisfactorily. It is also worth mentioning that these measures could have been carried out during
project implementation, but neither the SUCCE nor the Bank followed up on them. However, this
lack of detailed design information had only a limited impact on the overall result and did not
lower the overall satisfactory result.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall project outcome is rated satisfactory. Given the emergency context in which it was
planned and executed, the project managed to achieve most of its major relevant objectives and
has achieved satisfactory development results with a few shortcomings. The implementation of the
physical works has been carried out satisfactorily, providing the Provinces with the assistance to
minimize loss or damage due to the phenomenon.             The institutional actions were not fully
implemented, and the correspondent component is considered unsatisfactory. However, as it was
an emergency project, nonstructural measures such as the technical assistance activities were
deemed slightly less relevant during implementation than the urgent rehabilitation and protection
works. Moreover, the lack of implementation of two nonstructural measures did not impact the
Development Objectives. In fact, the project succeeded in strengthening the institutions with the
establishment of the SUPCEs, the strengthening of SUCCE, the engineering studies for the
works, and the first phases of the hydrologic study on the NOA region.        Also, sustainability of
the project is likely since the local governments have taken responsibility for the works (see
Section 6 for sustainability rating and transitional arrangements).



                                                 - 6 -

The project's objective of financing physical actions to address the impact of the El Niño
phenomenon in the affected provinces of the northwest and the littoral was achieved highly
satisfactorily in spite of the severe obstacles that it had to face (see section 5). In spite of the
initial delays in all provinces becoming effective, by the 31st of August 2001, 93% of project
funds had been committed and 52% had already been spent. However, due to the peso
devaluation, the delays in disbursing of provincial counterpart funding5 and the succession of
administrative changes within the UCPFE-SUCCE scheme that were brought with the two
administrations that followed project approval, it took almost three more years to commit the
remaining 7% and execute all projects. However, by project closure most of the initially planned
works had been finalized. The planning for El Niño differs from other infrastructure projects in
that projects were carried out as they became ready, on a first come, first served basis. Thus, the
provinces didn't present a finished plan as they entered the project; some of them had a big wish
list and others submitted the works one by one. Some provinces presented works that couldn't be
executed because they wouldn't be finished during the project's lifetime,6 but overall most
provinces were able to execute their priority works.

A total of 34 works were completed at project closure and only Córdoba was left with two
subprojects in process, which it had previously agreed to finance with its own funds7 at contract
signature.

The project's objective of financing institutional actions to address the impact of the El Niño
phenomenon in the affected provinces of the northwest and the littoral was achieved
unsatisfactorily. Nevertheless, this result did not impact the overall project rating considered as
satisfactory, because of the limited weight in the project design of the failed institutional actions.
While the SUCCE institutional strengthening, the establishment of five SUPCEs, and the needed
engineering and supervision studies for the Littoral provinces were successfully carried out, two
of the nonstructural measures that were under the SUCCE's responsibility were not completed.
The regional environmental study of the northwestern provinces was left unfinished due to a
dispute that arose between the SUCCE and the consulting firm hired to do it.8 The study was
partially completed, and resources invested in it (approximately US$1.2 million) will be lost if it is
not completed in the near future. The study was supposed to provide some of the information
upon which the flood forecasting process would be based. The second package of nonstructural
measures comprised provincial strategic plans and a civil defense strengthening process along with
the acquisition of communication equipment and flood forecasting technology. The strategic
plans, as well as the training and equipment were not carried out. Demand for these activities
seems to have been wrongly assessed, since from the start provincial governments wouldn't show
interest and/or commit to operating and maintaining the systems after project closure.

The technical annex didn't delineate any plan or needs assessment for civil defense strengthening
in the northwestern provinces that could have guided the project team. An educational campaign
to raise public awareness on the usefulness and developmental potential of these tools, along with
an active publicity process with the political authorities would have been necessary to raise the
demand for this tools' package. This is shown by the fact that only two of the six participating
provinces interviewed have stressed the fact that the implementation of nonstructural measures


                                                - 7 -

would have made a big difference in their institutional strengthening and their ability to deal with
floods.9 The diagnostic and pilots resulting from the environmental regional study would have also
contributed to raise public awareness and political buy-in.

Thus, the expected impact that these nonstructural measures would have had in the country's
ability to predict floods and minimize their damage was lost. Project outcomes would have been
more relevant if these nonstructural measures had been completed and/or new ones had been
added during the various extensions. In particular, the first study would have permitted a better
planning for a water basin strategy, enabling future investments to build protection where it is
mostly needed. The implementation of the second package would have improved the existing
human capabilities in civil defense and installed the planning tools and technology to help predict
floods and build an efficient protection structure in the northwestern provinces. In terms of a
successful implementation of structural measures, only Chubut carried out a participatory
environmental assessment which was not even included in the original project design. Chaco also
developed a contingency plan, but did it within the scope of the Flood Protection Project.

Finally, the project objective of providing housing to those populations living in flood prone areas
was completed highly satisfactorily in all the eligible provinces of Chubut, Córdoba, Salta,
Tucumán and La Rioja. Although modest in quantity, the component had wide positive impacts.
Besides the obvious result of handing over a serviced lot with house and title and building
community facilities, the project had a strong social impact. It favored social integration since
complete neighborhoods were relocated jointly to an area as proximate as possible from the
original high risk one. As such, it avoided the negative effect of moving people to places foreign
to them or of segregating existing communities. It also strengthened municipal and SUPCE
capacity to work hand in hand with community organizations from a partnership standpoint.
Moreover, it trained home owners for construction work, making them more apt for the job
market. The project provided basic environmental education to prevent people from settling back
in flood risk areas, contaminating the rivers and disposing waste in a way that could risk
contamination of underground water sources. Lastly, it promoted the issuance of land use
regulations that forbade new people to resettle in at flood prone areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Project design was overall appropriate for achieving its objective/outputs. Project design
incorporated lessons learned from previous projects. Among these were: (i) projects designs were
flexible and not over-specified, with the design being part of an ongoing process; (ii) all
interested and eligible provinces were encouraged to participate, a fact that allowed the project
to become effective faster by substituting some of the provinces short listed at appraisal by those
that were ready. Finally, (iii) project design maintained the flexibility to shift funds among eligible
provinces throughout the project, since the funds were allocated on a first come, first served basis.
10 The cap per province was based on its capacity to prepare and implement each sub-project
within the life of the project. Among the additional arrangements for flexibility it was agreed that
the estimated amounts that may be on lent to provinces would be stipulated within the
Operational Manual and not in the Loan Agreement, and that such funds could be reallocated
under the circumstances outlined in the Loan Agreement. This reduced the time taken up by a
loan amendment every time funds needed to be reallocated.



                                                 - 8 -

Physical Component: Protection and Rehabilitation Works

El Niño caused heavy floods during the third trimester of 1997, and further rain fall was expected
for the following year. The emergency project was prepared with this forecast in mind, so project
design targeted: (i) the protection of those provinces expected to be hit in the future; and (ii) the
rehabilitation of those provinces that had already been hit by the time the project became effective.
The protection phase was intended to take a pro-active approach to placing investments in
high-risk locations prior to the expected heavy rainfall, so as to lessen the economic and social
disruption of the La Niña event that tends to follow El Niño. This phase was supposed to be
implemented during the first twelve months.

In practice, by the moment the project became effective in October 1998, the most important
floods had already occurred, and unexpected ones had happened in Chubut and Córdoba. Thus, it
was unnecessary to give priority to one type of work over another, or put a time limit to carry out
any of them. Thus, during implementation relevant subprojects were carried out irrespective of
their protective or rehabilitative nature. The real emergency --when floods were occurring-- was
dealt mainly with US$20 million dollars that were redirected to the most affected littoral
provinces from the LN-3280-AR.

Regardless of the fact that differentiating among the nature of the subprojects was not necessary,
it is worth noting that project design as established in the technical annex faced the uncertainty of
a natural and unpredictable phenomenon like El Niño in Argentina. It had also to overcome the
lack of capacity in the country to diagnose meteorological situations or to assess the physical state
of existing infrastructure prior to El Niño. Since the initial pool of rehabilitation works in the
northwestern provinces wasn't known beforehand and subprojects were dependant on the effects
of the floods, the Operational Manual (POM) included indicators to define when a major weather
event had occurred in order to trigger the eligibility for Bank financing. In practice, POM's
indicators weren't easy to verify and if they have had to be used they would have required
inventory on the state of infrastructure before and after the disaster/s. It soon became apparent
that trying to prove that the damage to vital infrastructure in need for repair had been caused by
El Niño related phenomena was a futile exercise. These flaws of project design were corrected
during implementation.

Thus, the selection of works was finally made based on the need to (i) repair vital infrastructure
that had been damaged by floods; and (ii) to protect existing settlements from the damaging
effects of future floods. A total of 36 works were successfully carried out and finished before
project closure. Only two protection works in Córdoba were still ongoing at project closure due
to delays in construction (see Footnote 7). However, it was agreed that they would be completed
with provincial counterpart funding All works contributed to protect and prevent the effects of
floods in their respective provinces. This component achieved its outputs highly satisfactorily.11

Protection works were carried out in all provinces, in Córdoba, at the Tigre Muerto and the
Saladillo River. Also, swamps were recovered for agricultural purposes and erosion control works
in Las Lajas were completed. In Salta and La Rioja all works were to protect small towns located


                                                 - 9 -

on river borders next to mountains where floods struck more severely. Salta finished eleven of
these works while La Rioja completed four, as planned. These were the first flood prevention
works executed in these provinces in the context of a previously organized and coordinated effort
in a very long time. Tucumán carried out (i) a protection work of similar characteristics of La
Rioja and Salta; (ii) built a new bridge in a relevant access provincial route; and (iii) conducted
drainage works in urban areas. Misiones carried out four works, all for protection purposes; three
of them related to systematizing the drainage in the southern section of the capital city, Posadas.
The fourth work is the construction of an access route to the city to complement the construction
of a new bridge. Chaco executed two protection works comprising embankments to protect
settlements and rural areas in the northeast section of the province from spill over from the
Bermejo River. Chubut carried out three drainage works between the cities of Comodoro
Rivadavia, Central Trelew and Puerto Madryn and also lengthened the Ovide Conduct.
Furthermore, vital infrastructure was rehabilitated to lessen the damage of future floods and to
protect the cities from further disruption and economic losses. Córdoba rebuilt seven small and
medium bridges for both trains and vehicles which reconnected relevant productive areas.
Tucumán carried out two works in a drainage canal located within the city; repairs to the walls
and reconstruction of the end of the Norte canal. Chaco carried out one work to rehabilitate the
drainage system within the capital city, Resistencia. Chubut rebuilt the dam system from Trelew's
Cañadon industrial park.

Technical Assistance
On average this component reached its outputs unsatisfactorily, in spite of the successful
establishment of five SUPCEs in Córdoba, Tucumán, Salta, La Rioja and Chubut.                Even if
performance varied, these SUPCEs successfully supervised the implementation of engineering
studies for works and the inspection of such works during execution. However, two important
activities within the UCPFE-SUCCE's responsibility failed to be completed: the first one, the
regional environmental study of the northwestern region that would assess the hydrological risks
of the area; the second one, the training for civil defense coordination, the strategic plans and the
communication and flood forecasting equipment that never succeeded in arising provincial interest
(see section 4.1 for the reasons).

Housing
The provision of housing to those populations living in flood prone areas was performed highly
satisfactorily in the provinces of Chubut, Córdoba, Salta, Tucumán and La Rioja. It exceeded
project expectations. A total of 329 houses were built by October 2004, and 126 were in the
process of being finished by project closure. The total number of 455 houses exceeded the project
goal of 250 houses by 180%.

Notwithstanding these successes, the auditors' reports of the years 2001 and 2002 emphasized
some departures from the Operational Manual in the implementation of this subcomponent, which
should be carefully assessed for improvement of future projects.         The implementation units
considered more appropriate to manage directly the vouchers instead of handing them to the
beneficiaries. The selection of neighborhoods has been carried out without launching a public
campaign as initially required. Since these practices were considered more convenient than those
established initially, operation manual amendments should have been made.



                                                - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Given the emergency nature of the works that were focused on reconstruction, no ex-ante
economic rates of return were called for under the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were called for under the revised project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is defined as low, even if the objectives were
modest. The present project replicated the institutional arrangement of the SUCCE­SUPCE that
had been successful during the execution of the Flood Rehabilitation Project and the Flood
Protection Project in the littoral provinces. When it was implemented in accordance with the
project's operational manual, the arrangement had a well established flow of information, function
and composition and an effective method of coordination among the provincial and federal
governments. Project activities progressed well because of the relative self-sufficiency of the
SUCCE­SUPCEs, their qualified staff, and the fact that some of them were kept small and
managed to collaborate with established line agencies.

Each SUPCE's capacity to deal with flood emergencies and to design and supervise works for
flood prevention and rehabilitation was considerably improved during project execution. Due to
the current project and to the ones that preceded it, there were numerous professionals that
became trained in assessing and supervising works, and in conducting the relevant procurement
processes, from preparing bid documents to selecting and awarding contracts. Also, some
SUPCEs coordinated efforts with the permanent provincial institution/s that dealt with water
resource management and with flood prevention, in those provinces where this/these institutions
was/were active. This was the case of Chaco and Córdoba, where both SUPCEs worked in
coordination with the COHIFE (Consejo Hídrico Federal), the APA (Asociación Provincial del
Agua-Chaco) and/or the municipal unit for works, the Dirección Provincial de Agua y
Saneamiento (DiPAS-Córdoba). In fact Córdoba's SUPCE was set up within the DiPAS and was
staffed with municipal employees while only the Chief executive, the social expert and an engineer
were paid by the project. All other SUPCEs were set up separately from permanent institutions,
coordinating actions sporadically and thus missing the chance of strengthening the institutions and
agencies which will in the end inherit the works and which will be in charge of flood prevention.

However, this successful implementation arrangement has not set the ground for a more
permanent institution --either at the national or provincial level--that can continue the flood
protection efforts carried out so far and deal with emergencies once the project closes. The
technical assistance activities that were supposed to strengthen civil defense, provide flood
protection and communication equipment to the permanent institutions and depict the
hydrological risks of the northeastern region were not implemented, mainly due to lack of interest
from the provincial structures. The case of the SUPCEs in the northwestern provinces is
illustrative of what happens in most of the projects implemented by ad hoc units: since there was
no coordination with, nor technical assistance to the permanent structures, the completion of the
project entailed SUPCEs phasing out, leaving only the completed works. Córdoba and Chaco are



                                                - 11 -

exceptions because the provinces had requested a mandate to coordinate with the existing water
authority from early on. Permanent institutions in these last two provinces have been strengthened
and their staff is ready to prepare and implement projects as those carried under El Niño. (See
section 6.1 for sustainability arrangements). Misiones SUPCE, as Chaco, is benefitting from
additional budget within the ongoing Flood Protection project. In addition, essential SUPCE staff
is part of the Provincial Executing Agency within which the SUPCE was placed in its lifetime.
The province wants to keep up the expertise achieved and capitalize on lessons learned during
project implementation. It has in its favor that there are no salary differences between UEC
members and project consultants. However, the issue had not been resolved at the time this report
was written.

The SUPCE successful performance and their demonstrated impact of technical and supervisory
roles did not create the conditions and triggers for the provincial governments to gradually
increase their competence in the sector in the majority of the provinces. Coordination with water
sector authorities did not happen in five provinces, in some cases because the water authorities
were inexistent or inactive in flood prevention and protection activities--as was the case of
Tucumán and La Rioja. Indeed, the provinces where the institutional set up is weak and fragile
did not benefit as much from SUPCE expertise. If the conditions at the project preparation time
were such that ad'hoc implementation units were the best guarantee for a good implementation,
new projects must reconsider this approach, and negotiate upfront the progressive development of
capacity in the government permanent structures.

In terms of institutional development impact, it is more likely that some of the tools, skills, studies
and lessons learned from the project's implementation will pass on to the permanent structures in
provinces like Chaco or Córdoba than in the rest of them. These two provinces created ownership
through strong coordination, and this ownership will remain after the end of the project. Even if
working with an autonomous unit can be seen as more efficient and is often cited as one of the
success factors for performant project implementation, a collaborative/coordinated arrangement
has a more sustainable impact on permanent institutions and does not necessarily imply delays.
Córdoba's case shows that there is no need to trade autonomy for efficiency; Córdoba's SUPCE
was totally integrated within the Provincial structure--only three people were being paid by the
project--and since it had to stick to all provincial rules, all disbursements had to be approved by
the Provincial agency for Investment and Financing (Agencia Córdoba de Inversión y
Financiamiento, ACIyF). This added a new set of review procedures leading for a short time to
disbursement delays at the beginning of the project. But soon the province picked up with
adequate coordination with the Governor's office and finished all the works in the same way that
the rest of the provinces which had more autonomous implementation units.

As the present project didn't focus on nonstructural measures, few or no regional studies and
strategic plans were elaborated for the northwestern provinces and no technology or
communication systems for flood warning and forecasting were put into place. Thus, at the
project closing date, the provinces will mainly benefit from the protection and rehabilitation
works, leaving to future projects the strengthening of institutions and the development of risk
management strategies.




                                                - 12 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was completed in seven years, three years beyond the estimated completion frame.
Nevertheless, by the 31st of August of 2001, 93 percent of project funds had been committed and
52 percent had already been spent. The major obstacles affecting implementation were:

·       The severe crisis that affected the country in December 2001 included a major
devaluation in January 2002 which caused severe delays in the execution of works and services
and slowed down project implementation considerably. In light of the uncertainty that stemmed
from the crisis, related to exchange rate, lack of financial instruments to guarantee contracts, and
differing inflation predictions, most protection and rehabilitation works were stopped for more
than a year. This affected works underway and those under bidding processes. The contractors
required that all contracts be adjusted to reflect the changes in relative prices. This was done
following a price re-determination agreed upon by Government and the Bank on December 2002.
It took until June 2003 until the formula was applied satisfactorily to all contracts after definitions
were made on how to operationalize the implementation of the formula, requiring a total of 15
months until such agreement was reached.

·       Delays in accruing of provincial counterpart funds: As a result of these crises, many
provincial governments became financially constrained and began accruing delays in providing
their share of counterpart funds. This was the case of Córdoba and Tucumán in the year 2000; of
Córdoba, Misiones, Chubut, Salta and Tucumán, in the year 2001; of Córdoba, Chubut, Salta and
Tucumán in the year 2002; and in Córdoba, Tucumán, Chubut, Salta and La Rioja in 2003.12
These delays also caused late payments to contractors and several slowdowns until back payments
were received.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
·       Project effectiveness was slow, since the seven provinces joined in at different stages
between October 1998 (La Rioja) and April 2000 (Tucumán). This initial holdup was
related to delays in the signing of provincial debt loans and the fact that many of the
provinces short listed at appraisal couldn't access credit as expected. This lag could have
been avoided if there had been better coordination between each province's executive and
legislative bodies, and then between the Federal and Provincial Governments13 for the subsidiary
agreement ratification. Getting provincial debt laws approved is a twofold step. If these delays
could have been avoided, then the project would have become effective in due time and the first
extension might not have been needed. This also suggested that there are no mechanisms available
to speed up subsidiary loan approvals in case of emergency situations and as a consequence these
types of requests take the usual three to six months to be approved.

·       Another important factor that slowed down project implementation was the fact
that the UEC-SUCCE/ SUPCE's institutional structure14                   and autonomy was not
maintained as defined in the Operational Manual, throughout the life of the project. Since
the end of the first administration in January 2000, there were ongoing changes which caused a


                                                     - 13 -

shift in authorities and delays, such as: (i) changes in the line Ministries that held the Unidad
Ejecutora Central (UEC) first and the Unidad Coordinadora de Programas con Financiamiento
Externo (UCPFE) to which the SUCCE responded to, causing subsequent changes in the chain of
command;15 (ii) the lack of an Executive Chief for the SUCCE during the year 2001, which left all
approvals to the UCPFE with consequent implementation delays and blurred lines of authority;
(iii) ongoing reductions in the number of SUCCE staff exclusively dedicated to project; and (iv)
an interruption of the centralized filing system.

The SUCCE was placed within three different line ministries in its seven years of existence.16
These changes added levels of authority and decision making, causing a series of disruptions in
implementation that were consistent all through the remaining life of the project. The first
SUCCE's Executive Chief resigned in December 2000, and the next one was only designated in
February 2002. In the meantime the project was the responsibility of the General Coordinator of
the UCPFE, who was in charge of an array of other projects and was physically located in a
different place. Also, there were three General Coordinators only in the year 2001. By the end of
the same year the lawyer and the procurement specialist for the project were removed from the
SUCCE and the tasks were delegated to the UCPFE's specialists. Since these specialists were not
especially qualified to deal with provincial matters, when in doubt they would consult with the
pertinent structure within the Federal system. These various consultation processes considerably
extended processing time. Furthermore, since the year 2000 the system of central files that had
efficiently allowed tracking all entrances and responses to and from the SUCCE was split, and
while the technical folders were kept in the SUCCE all other related matters were kept in the
UCPFE. This change also made it more cumbersome to follow up on each subproject's process.
The changes in the new administrations (first in 2000 and then in 2003) departed from the original
design that respected UEC-SUCCE's autonomy which was based on years of experience in this
type of programs (flood rehabilitation and prevention) and granted a swift and fast program
implementation. The subsequent longer procedures could have been avoided by the government
(see footnote 15 to see how the UEC-SUCCE/SUPCE arrangement was originally designed).

·       To a much lesser extent and only in some cases, changes in provincial authorities
also generated changes of personnel within the SUPCE, mostly of the executive directors.
These changes generally caused a slow down in performance along with the loss of well-forged
relationships between the SUPCE staff. The province most affected by these types of changes was
Chubut.

·       Lack of availability of provincial counterpart funds also caused implementation
delays. Even if the lack of provincial counterpart funds were caused in part by the financial crisis,
the fact that many provinces entered into contract agreements without the certainty that they
would have the counterpart funds could have been avoided. For that reason, in the Aide Memoire
of the mission held between March 8th and 19th of 2004, it was agreed that the remaining funds
would be allocated to those provinces that could present a subproject proposal that would
include: (i) the complete bidding documents; (ii) a proof that the total period of bidding,
contracting and executing could be completed before project closure; and (iii) a provincial
guarantee that there would be counterpart funding available.




                                                 - 14 -

·       All ongoing contracts had to be recalculated into the new peso value as a result of
the peso devaluation. The GoA and the Bank took until December 2002 to come up with an
official re-determination formula, and it even took until June 2003 to become fully operational. If
it had come out earlier some delays could have been avoided (see 5.1 for more detail).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
·       The accounting and disbursement systems are connected within each SUPCE and
SUCCE, but not between SUPCEs and SUCCE. This leads to delays in reimbursements from
the central account to the special project account in each province. This could be avoided by
installing an online system that connects all systems and immediately updates the information. The
system should be made available for all provinces and the SUCCE.

·       The time for reviewing and approving documentation by UCPFE-SUCCEs can vary
widely, and the lags vary among subprojects and provinces. This might be caused by the various
lines of authority that coexist within the UCPFE-SUCCE since the year 2000, the fact that some
professionals at the UCPFE are overloaded and working in many projects at a time, and/or the
fact that project files are divided between SUCCE and UCPFE. This could be solved if
procedures were to be streamlined and the UCCPFE-SUCCE would be given a deadline to
process each request that didn't require special treatment. This claim was made by 5 of the
participating provinces.

·       The SUCCE could have better addressed the issues that arose during
implementation around the technical assistance component. As has already been explained,
discrepancies arose between the SUCCE and the consulting firm hired to do the environmental
study for the northwestern provinces, and the conflict wasn't resolved successfully. As a lesson
learned, future consulting contracts should include conflict resolution clauses. Also, the SUCCE
didn't push hard enough to carry out the institutional strengthening activities that were initially
planned, or even arranged for others. Generally speaking it seems that the added layers and the
cumbersome decision making process of the UCPFE-SUCCE scheme after year 2000 contributed
to the failure of the Technical Assistance component.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Cost changes in US dollars were not significant. The Technical Annex's cost estimate for the
prevention and rehabilitation phases was US$60 million, of which US$42 million were Bank
financed. Final project costs totaled US$55.6 million, of which US$37.05 million were Bank
financed. There weren't major changes in project scope, scale or design, and the estimates for
physical quantities and contingencies were correct. Most of the viable works presented by the
provinces were carried out successfully. Annex 2 summarizes the breakdown of the final project
costs by component, incorporating all contingencies and unallocated funds used.

However, complications during implementation caused US$4.4 million to remain unallocated even
if some provinces still had fiscal space to contract higher debt, such as Córdoba or Chaco. All
these complications have been mentioned so far, and can be classified as exogenous, such as: (i)
the changes in the exchange rate due to the peso devaluation and the consequent delays incurred
due to the need to redetermine prices and contracts; (ii) the fact that many provinces couldn't
comply with counterpart funds in time;17 and (iii) the fact that after the peso devaluation project


                                                    - 15 -

costs were reduced in dollars, which allowed more to be built with the same dollar amount. Also,
(iv) the consulting firm in charge of the environmental study for the northwestern provinces
couldn't reach an agreement with the SUCCE on the new terms and prices after the devaluation,
causing them to stop the work and break the agreement. Other complications were of a
procurement and administrative type, such as (i) the implementation delays which occurred due
to the changes undergone in the UCPFE-SUCCE scheme and some of the SUPCEs under the
different administrations; or (ii) the fact that some of the subprojects were given no objections to
bid when it was too late to get started if they intended to finish within the life of the project.18
These situations were sometimes caused by proposals that were sent too late or due to
UCPFE-SUCCE and Bank approvals that took too long to get back to the SUPCEs. Lastly, some
projects had specific procurement problems or faced public opposition which made the provinces
call them off.19

In 2004 funds were reallocated mainly from the goods and consulting services categories to the
works category. This was because two of the major activities within the technical assistance
component were not carried out: the acquisition of communication equipment and flood
forecasting technology;20 and, the remaining part of the consultancy for the hydrological study of
the northwestern provinces (US$827,000).21 Thus, the pool of funds for works was increased
from its appraisal estimate in an amount of US$4.6 million. Of this amount US$2.6 million had
been used by project closure.

With respect to each financing category, the Bank financed: (i) an additional US$3.3 million in
works; (ii) US$0.3 million more in construction materials than expected; (iii), US$2.7 million less
in goods than estimated; and (iv) US$5.1 million less in consulting services than initially planned.

Estimated and actual sources of funding are shown in the tables in Annex 2. Of total project costs,
excluding duties and taxes, the provincial governments each financed 34 percent, leaving the
Bank's overall financing to 66 percent. These percentages fall within the originally estimated
range of each provincial government financing: 30 percent and the Bank the remaining 70. This
variation in proportions occurred because in the end there were more works and fewer goods than
originally intended, and since goods were expected to be reimbursed completely, the pari-passu
shifted.

As a result of the three year extension in project implementation --from March 2001 to December
2004-- disbursements did not follow the appraised estimates. The major reasons for these delays
are detailed in section 5. No contracts were retroactively financed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

On average, project sustainability is unlikely. While provincial governments and some water
authorities have expressed their commitment to operate and maintain the finalized works, there is
no control on budgetary provision for maintenance, and thus, a risk of insufficient resources (see
following section 6.2 for details). Nevertheless, there is an acceptable level of ownership of the



                                                  - 16 -

works in most provinces,22 combined with a governmental and general public awareness for the
need of maintaining and operating them and to continue to work on complementary actions to
lessen the impact of floods. The key issues of maintenance and sustainable organizations, which
will improve sustainability, will be addressed in future projects, such as the Urban Flood
Prevention and Drainage for the Littoral provinces. Sustainability would have been even better
rated if the nonstructural measures initially proposed, the regional hydrological study and the
training program, had been complied with, and if there had been some transition arrangement for
the role and responsibilities of the SUPCEs to be gradually absorbed by the permanent provincial
structures.

The technical sustainability of the rehabilitation and protection works is likely. Maintenance and
operation costs have been taken over by the respective provincial and municipal authorities.
Maintenance expenditures are not expected to be very high since most finished works do not
imply large equipments and there are few pump stations installed. The environmental viability of
all works has been considered and tested before and during project implementation, and
community consultation and participation mechanisms have been put in place to assure ownership
and support for each subproject. However, technical sustainability ultimately depends upon the
provincial and municipal governments' political willingness and budget capacity to maintain them.
Where works were hired and supervised by SUPCE in coordination with provincial governments
the ownership arisen from this coordination is likely to pay off in terms of maintenance.

Regarding the housing subcomponent, sustainability of the new homes and the original
beneficiaries is highly likely. A post implementation risk identified was that after completion of the
new homes families would sell their units and return to unprotected areas. However, this risk has
not materialized to date. The improved sanitary and health conditions are strong incentives to
prevent a return, along with the fact that the sense of ownership is very high since the owners
built the units themselves. Also, each of the provinces of La Rioja, Salta, Tucumán and Córdoba
passed a flood protection law (ordenanza) that incorporated land zoning and land use regulations,
clearly defining at risk areas and preventing people from resettling in them.23 By the same law
these areas are to be of public use for recreational purposes.

Regarding the institutions and systems developed, three provinces will benefit from the SUPCE
capacity into their existing institutional framework.        In the other provinces, even if the
SUCCE/SUPCE model was successful, well-coordinated, and trained valuable human resources
to design and supervise prevention and protection works, the responsibilities and tasks of these
units will not be taken over by the permanent provincial entities within the federal and provincial
governments. In Córdoba, SUPCE was located within the Dirección Provincial del Agua y
Saneamiento (DiPAS) from the start so its lessons learned and experience will stay in place. In
Chaco, projects were implemented in close coordination with the Asociación Provincial del Agua
(APA), and in Misiones, there is a plan to incorporate SUPCE staff into provincial permanent
staff. In the case of Córdoba and Chaco, the strong provincial mandate for coordination will pay
off in terms of sustainability. Chaco has a great interest in absorbing the SUPCE as a permanent
institution, but the salary decrease that this decision would mean for former SUPCE members
hasn't been sorted out yet. In Misiones salary differences don't apply but they are still struggling
to convert SUPCE's staff into permanent employees.



                                                - 17 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The rehabilitation and protection works were undertaken by the respective municipal or provincial
authorities. In Tucumán, La Rioja, Misiones, Córdoba and Salta provincial governments
expressed their commitment to operate and maintain them. In Chaco the APA has committed to
operate and maintain some of the protection works. The Córdoba municipality has allowed for the
productive exploitation of some of its land so that the proceeds can serve to maintain one of the
subprojects. In Chubut each subproject has been handed over to the corresponding municipality.
These transition arrangements have been agreed upon, but there is uncertainty on whether the
appropriate budget will be allocated for operation and maintenance or if the provincial/municipal
authorities that absorb the works are going to be adequately staffed to carry out the job.

To assure that these transitional arrangements are in place and working, projects should be
monitored and evaluated in the future with special attention paid to: (i) the physical state of the
works; (ii) the process by which they are maintained which comprises: the number of inspections
per year, regularity of inspections, technical ability of the person/s in charge of the inspections,
amount of time and funds taken to repair any deteriorated equipment, the availability of funds to
repair equipment; (iii) the creation of some sort of institutional structure to deal with flood
prevention and protection; (iv) the amount of community involvement in the maintenance; and (v)
the existing coordination with the water authority within the province.

It is strongly recommended that any follow-up project should pay special attention to
strengthening the capabilities of local water authorities, to ensure coordination with them, and if
there are to be SUCCE and SUPCEs, to include incentives and triggers so that these units'
responsibilities are absorbed into provincial/municipal permanent structures. Furthermore, a new
project should include actions conducive to increasing public and governmental awareness on the
importance of nonstructural measures to mitigate the effect of floods and of prevention measures.
At the national level the government should consider establishing a permanent directorate for
emergency management in order to achieve long-term sustainability.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The project started preparation in mid-November 1997
and was approved by the Board on January 20th, 1998, in only two months. It took until May to
be signed and until October to become effective because of differences that arose between the
GoA and the provinces. Project design was very effective for an emergency loan, incorporating
lessons learned from former projects and a great flexibility in fund allocation at the beginning
when some of the provinces were not signing their debt laws, or later during project execution,
when provinces were not complying with their work plans. Project design also allowed for an
expense of US$8 million in retroactive financing, which allowed for the works to be initiated right
away.




                                                  - 18 -

7.2 Supervision:
The project was managed satisfactorily by three Bank task managers and their teams. Each one of
these teams performed their duties satisfactorily, carrying out regular supervision missions ­a total
of 26 between March 1998 and November 2004--and making particular efforts to engage the
Argentinean government on a constructive dialogue during the renegotiation of existing contracts
after the crisis. Given delays suffered during project execution, these missions were particularly
helpful at (i) revising the commitment of each participating province to the project by enacting the
corresponding debt law; (ii) checking compliance with counterpart funding obligations; and (iii)
revising the amount of the loan to be on lent to one or more eligible provinces, when applicable.
The constancy and continuity of these missions allowed for a swift reallocation of funds between
categories and between provinces, when needed.

Although the project design did not put emphasis on the institutional aspects and the TA
component, the Bank could have initiated discussion with the Government on the institutional
sustainability of the risk management sector during supervision. Four of the seven implementation
units, in the Provinces of Tucumán, Salta, La Rioja and Chubut, were phased out after December
31, 2004, and the provincial governments did not take advantage of the capacity and expertise
gained during this project. For Misiones and Chaco, the issue has been postponed with the
SUPCEs still in place under the ongoing Flood protection project. Only Córdoba has set up a
more sustainable situation, with most of the SUPCE staff financed by the Provincial government.
Apart from considering capacity transfer from SUPCE to Provincial agencies, which can face
budgetary issues, the Provinces could have strengthened their risk management capacity under the
Bank guidance.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank Performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance at preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. During project preparation
the borrower's Ministry of the Interior rapidly and efficiently organized the logistics for the
assessment of the damaged areas in conjunction with the Bank. The project was prepared and
appraised in a single month, immediately after the GoAs request for assistance. Key members of
SUCCE went to Washington from November 13 to November 24, 1997 to identify and prepare
an emergency loan and the project was negotiated in December of that year. The familiarity of
SUCCE staff with the needs for rehabilitation and protection works in damaged and at-risk
provinces, plus their knowledge of the existing institutional capacity for dealing with flood
emergencies made this possible.        Also, the synergies that were allowed among projects
coordinated by the SUCCE made the identification of works easier.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoA's role in implementation, even if minor, is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. The borrower's
response into signing the Loan Agreement and making the loan effective was lengthy considering
the importance of the project and the specificity of it being an emergency loan. As stated earlier, it
only took the Bank two months to prepare the project and obtain Board approval. However, loan


                                                - 19 -

signing did not occur until May 6, 1998, and the loan was declared effective--with the entrance of
only La Rioja-- in October of that year. These delays are mainly attributed to the combined
lengthy administrative steps within provincial legislatures first and the Ministry of Economy later.
At the Federal level the borrower lacks a streamlined approach to dealing with emergency
recovery loans.24

Regarding project implementation, the GoA should have maintained the same efficiency in
implementation arrangement for the UCPFE- SUCCE/SUPCEs as was established in the
Operational Manual (see footnote 15) in order to ensure a fast project implementation process.
The fact that every change in administration added layers of authority and decision making
affected the SUCCE's well-functioning.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
A central coordinating unit, the SUCCE, and seven highly competent and well-staffed local
executing agencies, the SUPCEs, implemented the project. This arrangement, where respected
and fully implemented, guaranteed a swift preparation, approval and supervision of subprojects in
the shortest period of time possible. Institutional strengthening was also achieved by the fact that
the central SUCCE was also coordinating the Flood Protecion Project and that the SUPCEs from
Chaco and Misiones managed both projects. This arrangement facilitated the capturing of
synergies.

Without a doubt, a great part of the sustainability of the project actions and works was ensured by
the competent staff in the SUCCE and SUPCEs and the communications that were maintained
with municipal and provincial authorities. For performance analysis, the implementing agency
category should be divided into SUCCE and SUPCE.

SUCCE's role is considered highly satisfactory up to the moment that the organizational and
staffing scheme delineated in the operational manual was respected (see section 5.2 for
explanation and footnote 15 to see the operational manual scheme). Before the shift of
administration in the year 2000 the SUCCE's use of highly skilled consultants and the
organizational framework were key in maintaining credibility in the program, for both the Bank
and more importantly for the provinces. SUCCE established and maintained constant
communication with the provinces, especially in providing the necessary technical guidance in
locations with problematic or complex construction. Above its fiduciary role, SUCCE also
facilitated communication and the transferring of knowledge and experience to the pre-existing
and new SUPCEs of the northwestern provinces. Likewise the project's General Supervisor
played an important role in project reporting and providing solutions to technical problems.

From the moment that the UCP-SUCCE/SUPCE structure was changed to the UCPFE
(Coordinating Unit for Programs with International Financing)-SUCCE, it was left without an
executive chief for more than a year and started depending on some of the UCPFE staff for
technical purposes, SUCCE's role is graded as satisfactory. The added levels of authority of the
UCPFE-SUCCE scheme blurred levels of responsibility, and the interruption in information flows
resulted in an increase in the average time used to revise documents and process no objections.
There was a clear transfer of responsibility from the technical team of SUCCE to the UCPFE and



                                                - 20 -

since then the length of the approval process became unpredictable, sometimes causing delays that
turned projects unviable with little time to be implemented (see section 5.6). This unpredictability
was a regular complaint from five out of seven SUPCEs.

It should also be noted that SUCCE's role in the implementation of nonstructural measures
(technical assistance) and the resolution of conflicts that arose around some of them wasn't as
satisfactory as its performance with the physical aspects of the project.

SUPCE's performance varies across provinces but in general they are equally praised for their
hard work, qualified personnel and coordination of efforts with the SUCCE. Overall, SUPCEs
performance is rated as satisfactory by way of speedily dealing with the emergency recovery and
coordination, and in the supervision and management of the investments and their respective
contracts. The ones from Chaco and Córdoba successfully managed to coordinate their efforts
with the relevant local water institutions, and by such augmented their provinces' capabilities and
ownership of the works, and established a base for project sustainability. Chubut tried to
coordinate efforts with the different municipalities where the subprojects were being built, but
wasn't entirely successful. Chubut was also a management model for other SUPCEs until the shift
in authorities in 2002 changed its composition. Misiones performed its duties as planned and in
view of the satisfactory results wants to turn the SUPCE into a permanent structure. The
SUPCEs from La Rioja, Salta and Tucumán were pioneers in dealing with flood protection and
prevention issues in their provinces, even though they didn't manage to strengthen existing water
and provincial institutions. Córdoba's SUPCE was an interesting case and differed from the rest
because it was staffed by public employees with the exception of their Executive Chief, and all
decisions had to be approved by the office of external financing before getting to SUCCE. Even if
it was less autonomous and experienced more delays in getting disbursement approvals than the
rest of the provinces, it is still the one that achieved most in terms of institutional strengthening
and potential sustainability. And it did so finishing 4 works with the same quality and within the
same time frame as all the others.

In regards to monitoring and reporting project activities to the Bank, SUCCE submitted all the
required information. Project auditing was done every year since 1999 (there were no
disbursements in 1998), and all audit reports had unqualified opinions.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Emergency Project Design

·       An important factor in project success was the tested organizational structure of a
central UCPFE-SUCCE with a solid base in local SUPCEs, independent from the local
government's requirements, and adequately staffed. Only Córdoba's SUPCE was part of the
provincial government. By adopting this institutional structure the project avoided the natural
delays that would have arisen from the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures or the lack of
capacity to develop, finance and supervise large and complex works. At the time this project was



                                                 - 21 -

implemented, this arrangement was the best idea since there wasn't any institutional capacity in
the provinces.

·       Any project requiring provincial debt laws has to factor in the fact that provincial
governments may take a long time to sign subsidiary loan agreements (which are the ones that
allow them to access the counterpart funds for the project). For a province to get its subsidiary
loan agreement approved, it has to conduct several tasks within its legislature first and then with
the Ministry of the Economy. These processes take a minimum of three to nine months.

·       Experience has shown that reallocation of funds within provinces and components was
made easy due to the fact that the provinces had entered into subsidiary agreements that were
larger than their initial expected expenditures. Given the length of time needed to sign subsidiary
agreements and thus make counterpart funds available, and the fact that reallocation of funds
between components and provinces is a common practice in emergency operations, it is advisable
for provinces to enter into subsidiary agreements larger than their expected debt. The current
project easily reallocated funds from one province to another due to this arrangement. The
decisions to reallocate funds were usually made after Bank missions when it became obvious that
some implementation delays would halt overall project execution. The provinces that increased
their debt capacity to carry out more works were: Chaco, Salta, Tucumán and Córdoba.

·       Competition for funds among provinces speeded up the process, without sacrificing
quality. The fact that the provinces had to compete for funds--since they were allocated on a first
come, first served basis - helped make them more efficient.

·       Project Financing: In order for an emergency loan to be implemented quickly, overall
Bank financing of an emergency operation should be a minimum of 60 to70 percent. This
minimizes the amount of counterpart funding requirements and unforeseen fiscal adjustments
required by the federal and local government.

·       Community Participation: the participation of beneficiaries and affected parties in
planning, designing, implementing and managing the project is essential to ensure a satisfactory
outcome of an emergency project. This was especially relevant in the housing and shelter
component. The interaction in local communities between beneficiaries and the local authorities
resulted in the timely availability of construction materials. The housing program was also
essential in attending the poor (beneficiaries with a salary under US$175).

·       Emergency operations require a strong commitment, not only from the borrower but also
from the Bank in terms of supervision. This project benefited from several supervision missions
that included field visits and on-site inspections. Emergency loans need to be designed with a
flexible implementation framework.

·       Project indicators. Indicators focused exclusively on outputs and not on outcome (see
annex 14 in the technical annex). Even if the Technical Annex cites an outcome indicator such as
"the effectiveness of the executed works by comparing the performance of the constructed
defenses during the annual flood period to their forecast performance", the indicator was poorly



                                                - 22 -

measured and/or followed up. While the project design in this period would put more emphasis on
output indicators, at the expense of outcome follow up, the project monitoring lacked a strategic
vision, as well as the expected effect on a region or an institution of the combined works and
activities that would have resulted if all the structural and non-structural measures had been
completed. This deficiency in impact indicators can also be attributed to the emergency context in
which the project was prepared which made it give priority to works over nonstructural measures.


Implementation

·       For the sake of speeding out project execution without sacrificing quality and since the
provincial SUPCEs have gathered ample experience with Bank procedures and flood protection
and prevention work, in future projects the SUPCEs (provinces) could be subject to fewer
controls from the Central Government Unit (SUCCE) over contract approvals. The SUCCE
could transition from its present supervisory role25 to a more technical one and replicate the
supervision scheme that the Bank has so far used with the UCP-SUCCE. Under such a scheme
only a few contracts over agreed-upon thresholds would be reviewed ex ante and the rest of them
would be reviewed ex-post. This argument is also backed up by the idea that the provinces should
be given more responsibility in the execution process as they are the ones contracting and
repaying debt, even if the Central Government provides its sovereign guarantee. Finally, such an
arrangement would also allow for a more efficient allocation of staff at the SUPCE level, since
specialists could be shared among projects.

However, if more responsibility is going to be given to the SUPCEs, they should be adequately
staffed and they should avoid the minor but often repeated fund management mistakes (under
reporting, over reporting, etc.) that are often cited in the auditor's reports. Also the SUCCE
could fortify its audit capacities to adequately monitor SUPCE's capacities.

·       Using the contractual figure of Individual Consultants with a team proved to be a fast
and efficient way of doing the feasibility analyses for the subprojects, without sacrificing quality. It
achieved the same results than hiring a firm to do the job but taking up less time since these
contracts are exempt from requisites of publication with a month advance or from having to ask
for expressions of interest or prepare short lists. It was also a cheaper option. This figure is not
usually accepted for all projects but proved to be very useful in the context of emergency in which
the present loan was designed.

·       A SUCCE/SUPCE integrated financial management system that links the accounting
records keeping system with the disbursement system would considerably increase the pace of
project implementation. It would shorten the time needed to make disbursements by reducing the
processing time and making a more efficient use of the staff's time and skills.




                                                 - 23 -

Policy Lessons

·        Emergency operations that involve voluntary resettlement through a housing component
should assist in the definition of land use regulations that prevent new inhabitants from resettling
on the land that is at risk.

·        Nonstructural measures and emergency projects have markedly different timelines, but
nonstructural measures should not be left out. Nonstructural measures need more time to be
developed and in some cases to achieve provincial government's buy-in. These time requirements
contradict those of an emergency operation and may lead to a situation where nonstructural
measures are given a secondary importance as was the case in El Niño. However, emergency
operations should include, and give the right priority to, nonstructural measures such as the
development of alert and information systems, or contingency plans. All these should contribute
to institution building and the sustainability of the works performed in an emergency context.

·        The Bank should support the establishment of permanent structures to deal with flood
prevention and protection. It is strongly recommended that any follow-up project pay special
attention to strengthening the capabilities of local water authorities, to ensure coordination among
agencies involved in risk management. If there is to be SUCCE and SUPCE, to include incentives
and triggers so that these agencies' roles and responsibilities are absorbed into
provincial/municipal permanent structures. Perhaps the willingness to include a scheme by which
the SUPCE would be absorbed after some years could be turned into eligibility criteria for
provinces willing to participate in successive similar projects. Furthermore, a new project should
include actions conducive to increasing public and governmental awareness on the importance of
nonstructural measures to mitigate the effect of floods and of prevention measures. At the
national level the government should consider establishing a permanent directorate for emergency
management in order to achieve long-term sustainability.

·        It seems clear that institutional strengthening can not happen without a strong public and
political support. Achieving political and public buy-in prior to project execution should be a
lesson learned for future project design. In this context, more emphasis should be put in creating
awareness of the importance of nonstructural measures in the provincial authorities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Introducción

El Préstamo BIRF 4273 ­ AR otorgado a la República Argentina financió el 66 % del "Proyecto
de Emergencia de Inundaciones `El Niño.'" Este Proyecto se desarrolló desde el 6 de Octubre de
1998 (fecha de la declaración de efectividad) al 31 de Diciembre de 2004. La diferencia de dos
años con respecto al plazo original de finalización del programa se debió a dos prórrogas, las
mismas fueron otorgadas el 21 de Marzo de 2001 y el 23 de Diciembre del 2003. La
implementación del Proyecto estuvo a cargo de la Subunidad Central de Coordinación para la
Emergencia (SUCCE).



                                                  - 24 -

Los datos de este informe se refieren exclusivamente al Préstamo BIRF 4273 - AR. En los casos
que por motivos de exposición se incluyan datos correspondientes a otros financiamientos, tal
situación está claramente identificada. Los datos de este informe corresponden a Febrero de 2005,
a no ser que específicamente se indique lo contrario.

El costo total del proyecto fue de USD 56.621.590 millones, el 66 % aportados por el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (en adelante el "BIRF"), y el 34 % restante aportado
por siete provincias, las cuales fueron: Chaco, Chubut, Córdoba, La Rioja, Misiones, Salta y
Tucumán. Los datos citados en este párrafo corresponden al 30 de Abril del 2005.

El Proyecto de Emergencia de Inundaciones "El Niño" (en adelante el "Proyecto") se desarrolló
mediante la implementación de las siguientes categorías de inversión:

Cuadro 1 - Porcentajes de Financiamiento

             Categoría               % Financiamiento BIRF              % Financiamiento
                                                                           Contraparte
   Obras Litoral                               62 %                             38 %
   Obras Noroeste                               62 %                            38 %
   Bienes                                       81 %                            19 %
   Viviendas                                    90 %                            10 %
   Desarrollo Institucional                    100 %                            0 %
   Servicios (Auditoría)                       100 %                            0 %

Con el desarrollo del Proyecto se mantuvieron los componentes tal como se plantearon
inicialmente. En el componente de Desarrollo Institucional , mas específicamente en el caso de la
Instalación de Sistemas de Alerta Hidrológico no se concretó por carecer las provincias de
unidades permanentes con presupuesto provincial que garantizaran la sustentabilidad de la
inversión. Tampoco se ha utilizado totalmente el componente de compra de Bienes. Estos
componentes se han reasignado de modo de generar un mayor volumen de Obras, tanto para el
Noroeste como para el Litoral.


De los Objetivos y del diseño

Objetivos
Los objetivos originales del Proyecto fueron: contribuir a financiar el desarrollo y la ejecución de
acciones físicas e institucionales con el fin de hacer frente a al impacto del fenómeno El niño en:
(i)     las Provincias del Noroeste que se mencionan seguidamente: La Rioja, Salta, Tucumán; y
(ii)    obras adicionales que exceden y van más allá del Proyecto de Defensa contra
Inundaciones, en las provincias de Chaco, Misiones, Córdoba y Chubut.

Las actividades específicas del Proyecto entre otras, fueron, brindar asistencia para reducir al
mínimo las pérdidas o daños por medio de medidas de prevención, y la rehabilitación de la



                                                 - 25 -

infraestructura y servicios conexos a su estado existente antes de la emergencia.

Evaluación de los Objetivos

Tanto los objetivos como las actividades de desarrollo del Proyecto, se han cumplido
ampliamente. Las obras realizadas han tenido un gran impacto a nivel local, observándose en las
áreas de emplazamiento de las mismas, los beneficios de la mitigación de las inundaciones. El
Fortalecimiento Institucional se ha realizado principalmente en las SUPCE´s, las cuales han
obtenido las capacidades necesarias para enfrentar a la emergencia y mitigar los problemas por
inundaciones.


De la implementación

En la etapa inicial del Proyecto la implementación de los componentes se demoró debido al
tiempo que llevó la creación de las SubUnidades Provinciales de Coordinación para la Emergencia
(SUPCE's) y la capacitación del personal profesional. Una vez que entraron en funcionamiento, la
ejecutividad de los procesos de implementación de los componentes ha sido excelente.

Otro problema que interfirió en el normal desenvolvimiento de la implementación de los
componentes fue la dificultad de las Provincias de contar con las contrapartidas en el tiempo
previsto.

Más allá de estas situaciones de demora, sin lugar a dudas, la mayor dificultad enfrentada para la
implementación de los componentes fue la situación económica por la que atravesó el país a fines
del año 2001 y la posterior devaluación del peso.

Impacto del Proyecto

Obras realizadas: Se han terminado 36 Obras que han generado un impacto positivo a los efectos
de mitigar los daños que producen las inundaciones, cumpliendo los objetivos de funcionamiento
esperados.

Viviendas: Se ejecutaron 455 viviendas por el sistema de esfuerzo propio y ayuda mutua, lo que
permitió relocalizar en zonas no inundables a pobladores que se encontraban en áreas con alto
riesgo de inundación.

Fortalecimiento Institucional: Se han creado 5 SubUnidades Provinciales de Coordinación para la
Emergencia (Salta, La Rioja, Tucumán, Córdoba y Chubut), generando recursos humanos
capacitados para ejecutar Programas con operatorias del BIRF en los temas referidos a
inundaciones. Cabe señalar el tiempo y el esfuerzo que ha demandado la creación de esta
capacidad institucional, que han sido la base para el éxito de la ejecución del Programa.




                                               - 26 -

Cuadro 1 - Listado de Obras y Viviendas


Provincia                       Obras                       Viviendas
Chaco                               3                             0
Chubut                              5                            50
Córdoba                             4                           150
La Rioja                            4                            50
Misiones                            4                             0
Salta                              11                           105
Tucumán                             5                           100
    Total                          36                           455



Calificación del Impacto del Proyecto por Componente:

1 - Obras:
        (a)      Litoral: Altamente Satisfactorio
        (b)      NOA: Altamente Satisfactorio
2 - Bienes: Satisfactorio
3 - Viviendas: Altamente Satisfactorio
4 - Desarrollo Institucional: Satisfactorio
5 - Servicios (Auditoría): Satisfactorio

Cuadro 2 - Ejecución por Categoría y Provincia - Financiamiento BIRF


  Provincia    Obras Litoral Obras Noroeste Fortalec. Institucional   Bienes    Servicios  Vivienda      TOTAL

Chaco           5.961.224,59                 -             110.400,00         -          -            -  6.071.624,59
Chubut                      -    3.276.595,00              246.398,00 34.604,00  50.572,00  217.638,00   3.825.807,00

Córdoba                     -  10.714.737,41               159.789,00         -          -  677.372,00  11.551.898,41
La Rioja                    -    1.499.293,00              504.858,00         -          -  295.290,00   2.299.441,00
Misiones        3.930.628,00                 -                      -         -          -            -  3.930.628,00

Salta                       -    4.312.372,00              900.667,00 2.843,00   64.228,00  447.328,00   5.727.438,00
Tucumán                     -    1.117.515,00              622.596,00 3.123,00   48.968,00  334.273,00   2.126.475,00
Succe                       -                -           1.165.921,00         - 322.237,00            -  1.488.158,00

Total General   9.891.852,59   20.920.512,41             3.710.629,00 40.570,00 486.005,00 1.971.901,00 37.021.470,00




                                                         - 27 -

  Gráfico 1


                        Ejecución por Categoría y Provincia



                     1%

                    0%                                            Obras Litoral
                           5%
               10%                             27%                Obras Noroeste

                                                                  Fortalec. Institucional

                                                                  Bienes

                                                                  Servicios

                                                                  Vivienda

                       57%




A la fecha de este informe esta es la situación de ejecución del Programa, es posible que queden
algunas transferencias pendientes, si las previsiones estimadas se concretan el monto del préstamo
ejecutado al cierre será de U$S 37.450.917.-

De la Ejecución Financiera

El Proyecto

El Proyecto de Emergencia de Inundaciones "El Niño" se diseñó a un costo de U$S 60.000.000,
de los cuales U$S 42.000.000 representan fondos BIRF y el saldo contraparte provincial.

En lo que hace al préstamo, sobre un monto líquido disponible estimado de U$S 37.123.200 al
31/12/04, se ejecutaron U$S 36.311.056. Los desembolsos al 15/02/05 ascienden a un monto de
U$S 37.021.470, lo que significa un 88,15 % del total del convenio.




                                                - 28 -

  Gráfico 2

                                  Totales Desembolsados por Provincia


                                           11,551,902.60
              12,000,000.00


              10,000,000.00


              8,000,000.00
                           6,071,624.39                                 5,727,439.16

              6,000,000.00

      Dólares                      3,825,807.15               3,930,628.04

              4,000,000.00                          2,299,431.36                2,126,479.90
                                                                                         1,488,158.22

              2,000,000.00


                       0.00
                             Chaco   Chubut  Córdoba  La Rioja  Misiones  Salta   Tucumán  Succe

                                                       Provincias




En cuanto al funcionamiento operativo de la ejecución financiera.

Los mecanismos de traspaso de fondos funcionaron adecuadamente, tanto en lo que se refiere a
desembolsos del Banco al prestatario, mediante el procedimiento SOE desembolsos (Cuenta
Préstamo - Cuenta Especial - SOE), como en las transferencias a las provincias por parte de la
SUCCE, las cuales se realizaron en un promedio de cinco días desde el ingreso del pedido de
desembolsos hasta que los mismos se acreditan en la cuenta provincial.

Ambos casos han funcionado con la rapidez esperada salvo contadas excepciones. Ello implicó
algunos cambios en la forma de trabajo, principalmente en lo que hace al manejo del sistema
contable y de desembolsos.

Las auditorías fueron contratadas a firmas privadas, por lo cual no se han generado demoras en la
presentación de los informes, vale aclarar que los mismos siempre tuvieron dictámenes favorables.




                                                               - 29 -

    Cuadro 3 - Resumen de
    Desembolsos


         Provincia                   1999                       2000                    2001         2002          2003            2004     Total por Provincia

    Chaco                          1.196.444,85              3.850.598,69               434.260,09                 259.158,15     331.162,61      6.071.624,39
    Chubut                                                        12.000,00          2.529.452,00    330.828,00   579.351,61      374.175,54      3.825.807,15
    Córdoba                                                  1.780.150,59            1.869.512,94    478.796,20  3.765.523,43   3.657.919,44    11.551.902,60
    La Rioja                           454.445,92               739.402,14              703.837,65   233.073,90     36.462,05     132.209,70      2.299.431,36
    Misiones                                                      86.822,54          1.098.852,54    175.328,39    474.799,97   2.094.824,60      3.930.628,04
    Salta                              215.614,32            1.713.037,94            1.830.128,10    363.552,83  1.046.567,61     558.538,36      5.727.439,16
    Tucumán                                                     137.127,90              730.727,89   161.492,49    378.518,72     718.612,90      2.126.479,90
    Succe                                50.500,00              119.994,31           1.038.968,00     36.521,55      5.617,85     236.556,51      1.488.158,22

    Totales por Año                1.917.005,09              8.439.134,11          10.235.739,21   1.779.593,36  6.545.999,39   8.103.999,66    37.021.470,82



                           Totales Desembolsados por Año
                                                                                                              PorcentajeDesembolsadoporAño

     12.000.000,00
                                           10.235.739,21

     10.000.000,00                                                                                                        5%
                               8.439.134,11                                     8.103.999,66             22%
                                                                                                                                       23%         Año1999
     8.000.000,00                                                   6.545.999,39                                                                   Año2000

     6.000.000,00                                                                                                                                  Año2001
                                                                                                                                                   Año2002
     4.000.000,00
                   1.917.005,09                         1.779.593,36                                                                               Año2003
     2.000.000,00                                                                                    18%                                           Año2004

              -                                                                                              5%                  27%
                   Año 1999   Año 2000     Año2001     Año 2002     Año 2003    Año 2004




   Gráfico 3                                                                                                           Gráfico 4

Procedimientos específicos

Solicitudes de Adelantos de Fondos (SAF)

Las provincias enviaban el formulario de SAF emitido por el sistema junto con la documentación
respaldatoria del pedido.
Esa documentación se ingresaba por Mesa de Entrada y era remitida al sector técnico de cada
Programa, quien controlaba la procedencia de la solicitud según avance de obra, los controles se
complementaban con las inspecciones en terreno.
En caso de SAF de honorarios se controlaba el devengamiento del contrato.
Luego del control técnico el legajo (Form. SAF y Documentación Respaldatoria con intervención
técnica) pasaba al sector desembolsos. En el mismo se controlaban fechas, conformidad técnica,
fondos y cuota presupuestaria, emitiéndose informe al Jefe Ejecutivo del Programa para su
intervención.
Con la conformidad del Jefe Ejecutivo regresaba el legajo al sector Desembolsos para emitir la
transferencia por el sistema, y contabilizar la salida de Cuenta Especial.
Los formularios de transferencia junto con la Declaración Jurada de cambio de divisas se enviaban
al Banco Nación, Caja de Ahorro, quien realizaba la transferencia a la Provincia, en el término de
48 hs. los fondos se acreditaban en la cuenta provincial.



                                                                                 - 30 -

Rendiciones de Fondos

Las provincias enviaban el formulario de "Rendición de Adelanto" emitido por el sistema junto
con la documentación respaldatoria (fotocopias factura, recibo, orden de pago, y retenciones
AFIP) debidamente certificada. El sector desembolsos controlaba dicho legajo, verificaba en
sistema y luego se preparaba el SOE para pedir la reposición del Fondo Rotatorio.
El circuito de envío de reposición de fondos al BIRF estuvo totalmente dinamizado, Cuando se
contó con rendiciones por montos superiores a U$S 200.000 se enviaron los SOE's.
Asimismo se realizó un seguimiento permanente a las provincias con respecto a las rendiciones y
se efectuaron los reclamos pertinentes en caso de demora, hubo casos en que no se obtuvo
respuesta positiva ya que las provincias en su mayoría cuentan con problemas presupuestarios,
por lo que no podían pagar la contraparte en tiempo y por consiguiente las rendiciones se
atrasaban.


Adquisiciones

Los Procesos de adquisiciones llevados a cabo se ajustaron cabalmente a lo normado en el Manual
Operativo del Proyecto, y a las Normas de Adquisiciones con Préstamos BIRF y Créditos de la
AIF, y a las Normas de Selección y Contrataciones de Consultores por Prestatarios del Banco
Mundial.

Con relación a la capacidad de las unidades ejecutoras que llevaron a cabo dichos procesos, cabe
destacar que tanto la SUCCE como las distintas SUPCE's que intervinieron en el Proyecto de
Emergencia "El Niño" (Préstamo BIRF 4273-AR) han demostrado haber aplicado adecuadamente
la normativa del Banco.

De acuerdo a la experiencia del personal, se expresa que se ha desarrollado una capacitación
integral, durante el año 2002. La misma fue brindada por personal del BIRF y el resultado de la
misma es categorizado como muy positivo.


Evaluación de la participación del Banco Mundial y del Prestatario en el Proyecto.

En cuanto al Banco Mundial

La preparación del Programa se ha realizado en forma muy rápida y eficiente. Inmediatamente
conocido el pronóstico del evento del Niño, una Misión integrada por el jefe Ejecutivo y
profesionales de la SUCCE viajaron a Washington para la preparación del Programa.

La supervisión del banco fue adecuada permitiendo al Task Manager tomar decisiones para
mejorar el funcionamiento del Programa y acelerar los desembolsos.

Las misiones de supervisión consistieron en reuniones en la SUCCE, visitas a las obras y



                                             - 31 -

reuniones con los Jefes Ejecutivos y Expertos de las SUPCE's para escuchar sus opiniones sobre
el funcionamiento del Programa en cada Provincia. Los resultados de las mismas son muy
valorables ya que en muchas ocasiones posibilitaron solucionar los problemas existentes de forma
rápida y eficiente.

Fueron aproximadamente 34 las misiones de supervisión técnica, financiera y operativa realizadas
por el Banco entre los años 1997 y 2004.

En este programa, los Task Manager asignados han demostrado tener la capacidad técnica y
gerencial necesaria para garantizar el éxito del Programa.

El desempeño global del Banco fue satisfactorio.


En cuanto al Prestatario

La SUCCE se formó en el Ministerio del Interior para ejecutar el PREI - 3521-AR, trabajando en
forma conjunta con las SUPCE's dependientes de las respectivas Unidades Ejecutoras
Provinciales. Dicha SUCCE fue la encargada de la coordinación y gerenciamiento del Proyecto.

En el año 2000, mediante el decreto N° 176, la SUCCE pasó a depender del Ministerio de
Infraestructura y Vivienda, en el año 2003 dicho Ministerio cambió su denominación, y
actualmente es el Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversión Pública y Servicios.

La preparación del Programa se ha encarado inmediatamente conocido el pronóstico del evento
Niño, una misión integrada por el Jefe Ejecutivo y profesionales de la SUCCE fueron a
Washington a preparar el Programa, mientras otros integrantes de la SUCCE relevaban
información técnica y de daños en las Provincias del Noroeste.

El diseño institucional fue excelente, ya que se tomaron experiencias muy positivas de la ejecución
de los Programas PREI y PPI.

Se formaron las SUPCE's Provinciales cuya misión fue técnica y ejecutiva, en ningún momento
hubo competencia con organismos permanentes de las provincias, sino por el contrario se trabajó
en forma conjunta. Las obras las propusieron las Provincias y las SUPCE's realizaron las tareas
técnicas y de procedimientos de acuerdo a la operatoria del Programa para la concreción de las
obras, en muchos de los casos apoyados en unidades técnicas permanentes.

Desempeño Global del Prestatario: La evaluación del desempeño de la SUCCE corre por cuenta
del Banco y de las SUPCE's.

Con respecto al desempeño general de las SUPCE's:

-       SUPCE Chaco: Muy Satisfactorio
Excelente nivel profesional, mucha experiencia obtenida en la ejecución de Programas anteriores



                                                - 32 -

del BIRF, la continuidad de los profesionales no ha sido afectada por los cambios de autoridades.

-      SUPCE La Rioja: Muy Satisfactorio
Muy buen nivel profesional, la ejecutividad del Programa estuvo condicionada a la capacidad de la
Provincia de contar con el financiamiento de la contrapartida. Es valorable consignar que la
provincia solo ha realizado los proyectos que tenían garantía de contar con la contrapartida
provincial.

-      SUPCE Salta: Muy Satisfactorio
Muy buen nivel profesional, buena ejecutividad del Programa. La provincia presentó un
cronograma de obras al principio del programa que fue ejecutado de acuerdo a lo planeado,
salvando los problemas ocurridos durante las crisis económica. Los profesionales han adquirido
una importante experiencia en la ejecución de Programas con financiamiento del Banco.

-      SUPCE Tucumán: Muy Satisfactorio
Muy buen nivel profesional y muy buena ejecutividad.

-      SUPCE Córdoba: Muy Satisfactorio
Excelente nivel profesional, se ha trabajado con los organismos provinciales y ha sido mejorada la
capacidad institucional en el tema de inundaciones. Ha habido retrasos por trámites provinciales
ajenos al Programa y a la SUPCE.

-      SUPCE Chubut: Satisfactorio
Muy buen nivel profesional, muy buena ejecutividad al comienzo del Programa, pero los
continuos cambios de Jefe Ejecutivo de la Subunidad afectaron la ejecución de las obras.

-      SUPCE Misiones: Muy Satisfactorio
Excelente nivel profesional, mucha experiencia obtenida en la ejecución de Programas anteriores
del BIRF, la continuidad de los profesionales no ha sido afectada por los cambios de autoridades.


Lecciones aprendidas y Evaluación de Resultados

La implementación del proyecto fue exitosa por la agilidad que confiere un programa de
emergencia para su ejecución, permitiendo actuar rápidamente con obras de emergencia.

-      La creación de cinco (5) Supce's (Salta, La Rioja, Tucumán, Córdoba y Chubut), ha sido
determinante en el éxito del programa y en el alcance de los objetivos propuestos. Ello generó
recursos humanos capacitados para ejecutar Programas con operatorias del BIRF en los temas
referidos a Inundaciones. Cabe señalar el tiempo y esfuerzo que ha demandado la generación de
esta capacidad institucional.

-      La realización de estudios de consultoría con la figura del Consultor Individual con equipo
de trabajo que ya había sido utilizado en el PREI con grandes beneficios en calidad y tiempo de
contratación de los trabajos.



                                               - 33 -

-       El criterio utilizado para asignar los fondos disponibles en el Programa, mediante un
sistema de competencia entre las provincias ha permitido mejorar el desempeño del Programa
obligando tanto a las Provincias como a la Unidad Central a ser ejecutivos en los proceso de
preparación de las licitaciones.

-       Con el cese del funcionamiento de las Subunidades provinciales, se pierde la experiencia
adquirida en el tema inundaciones.

-       En el caso de proyectos técnicamente factibles presentados por las provincias, que a juicio
de los profesionales pudieran no contar con la total aceptación de la población afectada, se
requirió la realización de Consultas Públicas, lo que permitió en algunos casos conocer detalles y
posibles problemas que pudieron haberse producido en su ejecución.

-       Como sugerencia para tener en cuenta en el futuro, los procesos de reforma que deberían
llevarse a cabo en las Unidades Ejecutoras con la participación del Banco, a fin de lograr una
mayor eficiencia, pasan por un Sistema de Gestión unificado, léase Banco - Unidad Ejecutora con
el objeto de que ambos tengan acceso a la información. Esto posibilitará, entre otras cosas, ahorro
de tiempos y comunicaciones, evitar la duplicación de datos, mayor eficiencia, etc.

Comentario del Prestatario

El estudio de Riesgos Hidrogeológicos de las Provincias del NOA no pudo ser concluido por
reclamos económicos interpuestos por la Consultora Contratista de los trabajos relacionados con
el cambio en la paridad del dólar, generándose por tal motivo una controversia entre el comitente
y la firma Consultora.

Este estudio es de fundamental importancia para encarar las futuras inversiones en el NOA en
áreas bajo riesgo y para el manejo actual de las cuencas aluvionales, lo que revela la importancia
económica de este estudio para la generación de nuevos programas específicos en la región.

Factores Mayores que afectaron la ejecución y el resultado del Proyecto

Dificultad de las provincias de contar con las contrapartidas correspondientes.

Demora en los trámites administrativos que se generaron en dependencias provinciales ajenas al
programa.

Cambios en las SUPCE´s de Jefes Ejecutivos y de algunos profesionales con experiencia afectó el
normal desarrollo del Programa.


Sustentabilidad

La sustentabilidad del proyecto es poco probable.



                                               - 34 -

Las estructuras permanentes en las Provincias, en general no son fuertes, y toda la experiencia
adquirida por el personal profesional de las SUPCE's, en la mayoría de los casos, no podrá ser
transferido y se perderá con la desactivación de las mismas. Las provincias no cuentan con
recursos para sostener las actuales SubUnidades, pese al bajo costo que éstas tienen y el alto
beneficio que generan.

Para finalizar, cabe señalar además que las provincias tienen dificultades para disponer de recursos
para el mantenimiento de las obras. En algunos casos los municipios se hicieron cargo de las obras
construídas y se comprometieron a su operación y mantenimiento.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information


FOOTNOTES
1 See Loan Agreement, Section 1.02, (f), "Northwestern participating provinces means the following
provinces of the Borrower: Catamarca, Jujuy [...] and any other province, acceptable to the Bank, which
may be affected by El Niño phenomenon."
2See paragraph 27, (ii) of Technical Annex.
3See paragraph 27, (iii) of Technical Annex.
4As is stated in an official memo from the project's task manager to Argentina's country director seeking
approval for reallocation of funds (April 27th, 2004); "After the crisis in 2001....government
administrations fell in rapid succession [...] the crises had a major impact on the Bank's investment
portfolio. The implementation of investment projects deteriorated to such an extent that about half of them
had to be rated unsatisfactory with regard to implementation in 2003. The Niño Emergency Project was one
of them."
5 This was the case of Córdoba, Tucumán, Misiones, Chubut, Salta and La Rioja at least once during
project implementation. These delays also caused late payments to contractors and several slow downs until
back payments were received. See section 5.1 for more detail on each province's delay.
6Tucumán and La Rioja.
7The two subprojects are: (a) Correction of Cárcava in the Las Lajas stream, and (b) works to control the
water flow in Tigre Muerto.
8The contract for the regional environmental study was signed on the 28th of February of 2001. In May
2002 the report was completed to a 70% rate. By March 2002, at the time of the country's default and
devaluation, the consulting firm presented an invoice as agreed in the contract. However, the peso
devaluation entailed drastic changes that could never be agreed upon between the consultant and the
implementation unit. The SUCCE eventually brought the problem to the General Directory of Legal Issues
within the Ministry of Economics, which started legal procedures, ending in the finalization of the contract.
In August 2003, with a Bank mission, the situation was reassessed and no agreement was reached. On
August, 2004, the Bank requested the SUCCE to send the request of no objection to rescind the contract.
This conflict could have been possibly avoided by the SUCCE with more adapted clauses of conflict



                                                   - 35 -

resolution in the contract and a legal follow up from the beginning of the conflict.
9Tucumán and Salta.
10The debt law that had to be signed between the central government and the participating provinces just
established a ceiling to their borrowing capacity for prevention and rehabilitation works and related
services, but it did not mean that they would use it all. In fact they were purposely larger than planned in
order to include last minute subprojects without the need to call for an amendment. Fund reallocations were
decided and approved during or after supervision missions. As stated in an official memo of April 27th of
2004, there were fund reallocations from the goods and consultant services categories into the works and
construction materials categories. Also, the amount of US$15 million that had initially been allocated for
the Littoral provinces was diminished to US$10.8 million while the total allocation for the Northwestern
provinces of Chubut and Córdoba was increased form US$13.2 million to US$22 million. This was done
because the Littoral provinces were disbursing at a very low rate (50%) as the project was coming to an
end.
11The provinces didn't have to present a plan to enter the project, so there wasn't an original list of works
to contrast with the ones that were executed. The provinces started works as long as (i) there were
counterpart funds available, (ii) they didn't exceed their debt agreements and (iii) the works could be
finished in time for project closure.
12As stated in the auditors' report of each respective year.
13
 Which authorizes the provincial request for debt.
14
 As stated in the Operational Manual, the SUCCE would be initially set up under the Unidad Ejecutora
Central (UEC), within the Secretaria de Asistencia Financiera a las Provincias (SAFP) and would be
responsible for the general administration of the project, including providing orientation and technical
assistance to the provinces for project preparation, approval and acquisition of the subprojects. Likewise,
the Sub-unidad Central de Coordinacion para la Emergencia (SUCCE) would contract the execution of the
general institutional development actions. SUCCE would report and obtain Bank approval in all matters
related to acquisition and disbursement, and would continue providing the needed coordination between the
proposed project and others. The SUCCE would be headed by a Chief Executive, assisted by a team of
consultants in the project's several infrastructure sectors such as: (i) a project supervisor, reporting directly
to the SAFP and to the Bank; (ii) an accounting expert, (iii) a procurement expert; (iv) a disbursement
expert, (v) an environmental expert, (vi) a flood defense expert, a (vii) a civil engineering expert, (viii) a
hydrologist, (ix) a housing expert, (x) an expert for shelters and civil defense actions, (xi) a drainage
expert, (xii) a counsel, (xiii) an advisor for sub-project evaluations, and (xiv) support for administrative,
computational, accounting, technical and disbursement activities. The SUCCEs responsibility will be to
oversee, supervise and control the actions of each of the Subunidades Provinciales de Coordinacion para la
Emergencia, (SUPCEs), particularly in respect to identification of works to be selected for investment,
sub-project design, procurement actions, implementation, supervision, disbursement, accounting and
auditing. Each SUPCE would be located under the Unidad Ejecutora Provincial (UEP), but would still be
an autonomous entity, independently staffed. SUCCE would review all procurement procedure documents,
bid evaluations and contract awards to ensure that the agreed procurement procedures were properly
implemented. Because of the emergency nature of the project, and because NCB and price quotations
contracts would be too small and numerous for effective prior review by the Bank, such a review would be
delegated to SUCCE. At the provincial level each SUPCEs would then have the responsibility for the
formulation, execution, inspection and administrative management of the project at the provincial level. The
SUPCEs would also be responsible for the procurement, contracting and submission of disbursements
which are all subject to review by the SUCCE. In addition, a highly experienced individual consultant
would play the role of the General Supervisor, with the responsibility for monitoring the project
independently and reporting to the SAFP and the Bank.



                                                     - 36 -

15Until the year 2000, the SUCCE was under the UEC within the Ministry of the Interior. In 2001 the
SUCCE was placed under the UCPFE, within the Ministry of Housing and Infrastructure. Then this
Ministry was absorbed by the Ministry of the Economy and later, in 2003 the Ministry of Housing was
revived and put within the Ministry of Federal Planning, Public Investment and Services (former Ministry
of Infrastructure), where the SUCCE is now.
16 Since its creation in 1988 the SUCCE was under the supervision of the Central Executing Unit (UEC),
placed within the Secretariat of Financial Assistance to the Provinces, itself within the Ministry of the
Interior. Since the 20th of June, 2000, the SUCCE's supervision was transferred to the Coordinating Unit
for Programs with International Financing (UCPFE), within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing,
Secretariat of Public Works. In the meantime this Ministry was absorbed by the Ministry of the Economy
and then was reborn again in the year 2002 to be renamed to Ministry of Federal Planning, Public
Investment and Services. While the SUCCE was under the UEC there was an Executive coordinator in
place and a team of experts that could deal with technical issues with relative autonomy.
17Fiscal constraints after 2001 had repercussions on the transferring of national counterpart funds to the
provinces and likewise the availability of provincial counterpart funds. The delays started in 2001 when the
National Budget Office did not incorporate sufficient resources within the budget exercise for federal
counterpart funding. In the respective auditor's reports for the years 2001, 2002 and 2003 there were
mentions of provincial delays in providing these funds in at least four provinces. The lack of counterpart
contribution in time was stated by the auditors as a noncompliance with section 5.01 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.
18This was the case of works in La Rioja, Tucumán and Chaco.
19La Rioja and Chubut faced public opposition to one of the works proposed so these projects were called
off. The hydrological risk study for the northeastern provinces was not finished due to discrepancies on
price re-determination between the consulting firm and the SUCCE.
20In the Aide Memoire of the supervision mission conducted between the 13th and the 16th of March,
2001, it is already mentioned that "Tucumán will be able to contract out another subproject (Reconstucción
de la desembocadura del Canal Norte) because the funds from the alert system will be reallocated'. This
reallocation happened later in the implementation process.
21SUCCE's report, December 2004.
22More so in Córdoba and Chaco where coordination with the water authorities was a provincial mandate
23Chubut didn't have a municipal law "ordenanza" because its intervention was in urban areas and a
different, more sophisticated decree was necessary.
24SUCCE has a table detailing the lag of time existing between the issuance of a request for a provincial
debt law and the moment it is conceded. The average lag is of three to 6 months.
25The situation now, as stated in the Technical Annex, is such that "the SUCCE would review all
procurement procedure documents, bid evaluations and contract awards to ensure that the agreed
procurement procedures were properly implemented. Because of the emergency nature of the project, and
because NCB and price quotations contracts would be too small and numerous for effective prior review by
the Bank, such a review would be delegated to SUCCE."




                                                   - 37 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
i) The reconstruction of 300 homes                The concept of reconstrucion does not apply, The project built 455 houses, exceding the
damaged by floods through the program of          since only new houses were built for people     initial project goal of 250 at a 180%
grants and self-help work.                        living in flood prone areas. The project goal at
                                                  appraisal was to build 250 houses.
ii) Definition of a regional flood-risk zoning of Regional Study for 6 provinces                  The study was left unfinished. See report for
the northwestern provinces                                                                        a detailed explanation.
iii) Increase level of protection in              11 cities/ 136,400 people. Given the            The project rehabilitated infrastructure and
approximately 11 cities/towns in the              characteristics of El Niño phenomenon, the      increased protection levels in a total of seven
northwestern provinces, benefiting about          project did not make distintions between        provinces and 39 localities. The total number
136,400 people.                                   rehabilitation and protection of infrastructure of people living in these localities who directly
                                                  in the end. Thus, a general actual estimate is or indirectly benefited from project results
                                                  provided in the next column                     was 3,164,000

iv) Rehabilitate infrastructure damage in         20 towns/ 1,000,000 people. Given the           The project rehabilitated infrastructure and
about 20 cities/towns in the littoral provinces, characteristics of El Niño phenomenon, the       increased protection levels in a total of seven
impacting about 1,000,000 people.                 project did not make distinctions between       provinces and 39 localities. The total number
                                                  rehabilitation and protection of infrastructure of people living in these localities who directly
                                                  in the end. Thus, a general actual estimate is or indirecctly benefited from project results
                                                  provided in the next column                     was 3,164,000




Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
River Cleaning                                    600,000 m2                                      5,770,547 m2
Levee Strengthening                               2,300,000 m3                                    2,887,438 m3
Bridges                                           150                                             8
Road Infrastructure                               510 km                                          55.5 Km
Urban Drainage                                    8 projects                                      12 projects
Schools                                           59                                              0
Health Centers                                    38                                              0
Housing reconstructon                             300                                             455 new houses were built
Flood Warning System                              3 provinces                                     0
Civil Defense Investment                          1.8 milion                                      0
Staffed SUPCE                                     6                                               5
Risk Mapping Study                                1 report                                        0

1 End of project
Some of the initial project indicators were outdated given the changes that occured during implmentation.
On the one hand, the housing sub-component was finally conceived as a reconstruction process. Thus, all
houses built by the project were new ones. Also, even if schools and health centers were apt for funding in
practice there was no demand for those. Another differenciation that was deemed unnecessary after
implementation is the one related to protection and rehabilitation works. Finally, the technical assistance
components (that included the Risk Mapping Study and the Flood Warning System) were not completed as
planned. The reasons for this is extensively explained in the report.




                                                                      - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate          Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million      US$ million
PROTECTION AND REHABILITATION WORKS                                40.90               49.20           120.2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (this category includes small                 12.10                4.21            34.9
goods, consulting services and audits)
HOUSING                                                              1.90               2.23           117.8

Total Baseline Cost                                                54.90               55.64
  Physical Contingencies                                             2.55
  Price Contingencies                                                2.55
                          Total Project Costs                      60.00               55.64
                             Interest during construction
                   Total Financing Required                        60.00               55.64
The project costs tables in the Technical Annex are clasified in terms of the provinces that would borrow
from the project. Since the selected provinces changed before effectiveness(see section 3.4 of the report)
project costs changed accordingly. The tables in this annex are a reconstruction of these events.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                   Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                    2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                              0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00         0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
There was not a Pre-defined Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements at Appraisal




                                                   - 39 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 18.74             23.19              7.27             0.00             49.20
                                          (11.62)           (14.38)            (4.84)            (0.00)           (30.84)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              2.23             0.00              2.23
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.01)            (0.00)           (2.01)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              3.89             0.00              3.89
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.88)            (0.00)           (3.88)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.32             0.00              0.32
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.32)            (0.00)           (0.32)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                18.74             23.19             13.71             0.00             55.64
                                          (11.62)           (14.38)           (11.05)            (0.00)           (37.05)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
PROTECTION AND                25.40        15.50                    30.85         18.32                 121.5    118.2
REHABILITATION
WORKS
TECHNICAL                     11.60         0.50                     4.20         0.00                  36.2      0.0
ASSISTANCE
Goods                          2.20         0.50                     0.03         0.01                   1.4      2.0
Consulting Services            9.00         0.00                     3.88         0.01                  43.1      0.0
Auditing                       0.40         0.00                     0.32         0.00                  80.0      0.0
HOUSING                        1.70         0.20                     2.01         0.22                  118.2    110.0




                                                          - 40 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

There was not an economic analysis of the project given the emergency situation in which it was prepared.




                                                  - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/17/1997                2    SECTOR LEADER (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (I)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/17/1997                4    SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (I);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             LAWYER (1)
              12/09/1997

 Supervision
              02/10/1998                1    SECTOR LEADER (1)                U               S
              03/26/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TECHNICAL EXPERT (1)
              05/22/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
              12/15/1998                1    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
              02/11/1999                1    TASK MANAGER (1);                U               S
              03/20/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1); CIVIL          U               S
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              05/14/1999                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (2)
              09/24/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              11/01/1999                1    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
              01/21/2000                2    SECTOR LEADER (1) ;TASK          S               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
              03/31/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1); WATER          S               S
                                             RES. ENGINEER (1)
              06/23/2000                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              10/17/2000                1    WATER RES. ENGINEER (1)          S               S
              03/16/2001                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              05/24/2001                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/09/2001                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              05/28/2002                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              10/24/2002                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              11/27/2002                2    SECTOR LEADER (1) ;TASK          S               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
              02/07/2003                1    SECTOR LEADER (1)                S               S
              05/27/2003                1    SECTOR LEADER (1)                S               S
              10/26/2003                2    WATER RES. ENGINEER (1);         S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER(1)


                                              - 42 -

               11/21/2003                  2    TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               03/19/2004                  2    TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
               08/20/2004                  2    TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
               11/22/2004                  3    TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                TECHNICAL EXPERT (1)
               03/22/2005                  4    TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                TECHNICAL EXPERT (1);
                                                ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                SPECIALIST(1)

 ICR
               11/22/2004                 3     TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                                (1); TECHNICAL EXPERT
                                                (1)
               03/22/2005                 3     TEAM LEADER (1)                       S                 S
                                                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                                TECHNICAL EXPERT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    2                           19.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         4                           17.4
  Supervision                                  45                         519.5
  ICR                                           6                              -
  Total                                        57                         556.4
The ICR was prepared during supervision missions, so staff weeks are counted only once for this last table.




                                                - 43 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l List of works executed in each province elaborated by the SUCCE.
l Tables with cost allocation per category and expenditures per province, elaborated by SUCCE.
l Interviews with the specialist hired by the Bank to supervise the project in the field, Juan Carlos
  Linares.
l Reports from the specialist hired by the Bank to supervise the project in the field, Juan Carlos Linares.
  Specifically, Report #10 of 05/04/2001, Report #11 of 08/31/2000.
l Report on "Comments on El Niño's ICR", Juan Carlos Linares, January 20th, 2005.
l Aide Memoire from the Bank's mission from 13-16 of March 2001.
l Aide Memoire from the Banks mission from 5-9 of November 2001.
l Aide Memoire from the Bank's mission from 17-28 of May 2002.
l Aide Memoire from the Bank's mission from 8-19 of March of 2004.
l Aide Memoire from the Bank's mission from 17-27 of August of 2004.
l Aide Memoire from the Bank's mission from 8-19 of November of 2004.
l Written reports from the SUCCE and from each of the participating provinces with answers on each of
  the sections of the ICR.
l Telephone interviews with the SUPCE's head of Chaco, Misiones, Salta and Tucumán.
l Project Portal general information: Disbursement Details, Procurement expenditures.
l Interviews with all members of the SUCCE; Roberto Bergman, Horacio Levit, Ignacio Perincioli,
  Ignacio Zelmeister, Hugo Schmidt and Lucas Cordoba.
l Memo from Jose Simas, Project supervisor, to David de Ferranti on the Proposed Extension of Closing
  Date for the El Niño Flood Emergency project to December 2003, Date: 09/12/02.
l Memo from Maryse Gautier, Project supervisor, to David de Ferranti on the Extension of Closing Date
  for the El Niño Flood Emergency project to December 31st, 2004. Date: 11/05/03.
l Memo from Maryse Gautier, Project supervisor, to Axel Van Trotsenburg to authorize the reallocation
  of funds among categories in the Argentina El Niño Emergency Flood Project. Date: 04/27/04.
l Qualitative evaluation of the housing sub-component, 2002.
l ICR for the Flood Rehabilitation Project, Loan 3521-AR.
l Audit Reports for the years: 1999 to 2004.




                                                 - 46 -

- 47 -

