The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL LSE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10225-PH  Type: (PCR)                           RqwtNtW  10225
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9 073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2206-PH)
DECEMBER 17, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Tbis document has * rsricted distibution ad may be  e by recipients only in the performanse Of
official duties. Its cogtents may oot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank  thorization.



Currency Unit   -   Peso (P)
US$1.00 - P  8.54 (1982 average)
- P 11.11 (1983 average)
- P 16.70 (1984 average)
- P 18.61 (1985 average)
- P 20.39 (1986 average)
- P 20.57 (1987 average)
- P 21.09 (1988 average)
- P 21.74 (1989 average)
MASURES AnD EIUIVALENTS
*      -  motor                        -  3.28 feet
km     -  kilomter                     -  0.62 miles
sq km  -  *quaro kilometer             -  0.39 square miles
ha     -  hectare                      -  10,000 square meters or 2.47.acres
cu m   -  cubic meter                  -  264 US gallons
cu mim -  cubic meters per month       -  8030 US gallons per month
1      -  liter                        -  0.26 US gallons
lpcd   -  liters per capita per day   -  0.26 US gallons per capita per day
PRINCIPAL ABIREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
DOR         Department of Health, formerly Ministry of Health (MOH)
IDWSSD   -  International Drinking Water Supply & Sanitation Decade
LWUA     -  Local Water Utilities Administration
MRS      -  Ministry of Hum-n Settlements
MLG      -  Ministry of Local Government, now Department of the Interior and
Local Governrment
MOR      -  Ministry of Health, now Department of Health (DOB)
MPWE     -  Ministry of Public Works and Highways, now Department of Public
Works end Highways (DPWH)
MWSS     -  Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
muA      -  National Electrification Adinnistration
WRC      -  National Water Resources Council
PIRC     -  Project Implementation and Review Committ-e
RWDC     -  Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
RWA      -  Rural Watorworks Association
RWSA     -  Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association
UND?     -  United Nations Development Programme
ISCAL  R
Government: January 1 through December 31
MWDC: January 1 through December 31



THE WOQLD RANKFOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
T>f WCOtLD BANK
IA Ahmon. DMC 20433
U.S.A.
O4ke .4 Dv.cmw-Cwed
December 23. 1991
MEMORANDUM  TO THE E$ECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDE
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Philippines
Ljoral1Water Supply and Sanitation Project
( 2 2206-PB)
Attached. for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Philippines - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
g 2206-PE)" prepared by the Asia Re'gional Office vith Part II contributed
by the Borrower. No audit of this prio act has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
K'
Attacbment
This document hss a restricted distribution and may be used by rfcipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONFETIOI RER
MLIPPIRES
RURAL WAE  SUPLY AND SANITATIOI PROJECT (LOA  2206-Zp)
Table of Contents
P      No.
Prefact                      .                      ..... .. . . . . ...  i.
Evaluation Su ary  a...................................    11
PART I. PROJECT REVIEWF ROm BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Project Identity           . .. .  . 
Background           ......... *                                          1
Project Objsetiv.  nd'D-ecr4ption  ......2........  ..    2
Projct Orgztion and Deigo            ign..................    3
Project Implementation  ..................... .    3
Project Results   .  ..      .  .... . . .   . . *  9 * 9  9 9 * *   * . .   5
Project Sustainability  ....  .        ............. ........... . . .   6
Bank Performance  a . - * 9 9 9 9 * * - . . 9 9       . . 9   *   . 9   6
Borrower/Implementiug Agency Performance- .            .  .   . . .      6
Consulting Services . o   . . . . . . . .       . .     . . . . . . .   7
Project Documentation dData  ....                ...............          7
Findlng and Leson Larned  ..                 ..................    7
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .   . . . . .    9
Background   *                                                            9 .  . . . . . . . . . . .   * * 9 9 9 * * * *    9
Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Scope of the Project   ......... ...... .  * *                      *   10
Physical Accompliabment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Cot and Diburusnten.......................  12
Inetitutioal Conaideratio    .....13..............   13
Technical assitance  ............. ..........   14
Recou.nndationa/Lsasons Learned   ................ *   15
PARTIII.STATISTICAL IN         ORTO    ON .............. . . . . . . . . .....   18
Related Bank Loan and Credits               .      .................   18
Project Tietable and Issues Raised. . . .o . .....a..... .   19
Loan Disbursements  ...... . .. ..........              9 9 9 * 9 9    22
Project Implementation  .....  ..          ......................  .   25
Project Costs and P1ding ..           ........ ............   26
Project Results . . . . .        * .   *   * * .     ... . ... . .    29
Statu  of  ajor Coro n t . .                        .....................    32
Use of Bank Resour rs .. s.......................    37
ANNES
Annex1:  Descriptionofth Project  ...............   41
Annex 2: Definitions . . . . . .  . . . . .. .. . .9 . .9    . *. . ..  42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their oMcial duties. Its contonts may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



PROJECT COP 3TION Rf PORT
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT lLOAN 22O6-PU)
?ref ace
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Philippines
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, for which Loan 2206-PH in the amount
of US$35.5 million to the Republic of the Philippines was approved on October
19, 1982. During project implementation, US$6.5 million of the loan amount was
cancelled at the roquest of the Borrower.  The loan was closed on July 11,
1990, two-and-one-half years behind schedule, when the undisburoed amount of
US$70,000 was cancelled. The final disbursed amount was US$28.93 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I
and III) and the Borrower's project implementing agencies, the Local Water
Utilities Administration, the Department of Public Works and Highways, and the
Department of Health (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's project
supervision missions in June and October 1990, and, except for Part II, is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, supervision mission reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJZCT COMPLETIL ROEPORT
MELIMPPIWE
RURAL WNTER SUMPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2206-Pfl)
Evaluation SutiarIv
The Proiect *nd Its Obiectlvoe
i.          The Project's major objectives wera to help develop and mobilize
local resources for the rural vater and sanitation sector, and to asoist with
the organization and strengthening of the responsible local institutions.
These objectives stmed from the Government's cetuprehensive "Integrated Water
Supply Program 1980-2000" produced in 1980 and the "'Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Master Plan" which followed.  The project objectives were to be
achieved through implomentation of part of the Government's overall rural water
supply and sanitation programs.   Coordination capacities of the several
agencies involved were to be improved, as would the capacity to mobilize and
develop local community participation in the planning, implementation and
operation of water supply and sanitation facilities (Part I, paras. 2, 3 & 7).
ii.         The Project  essontially was  a sector project.   Its  targets
included: development or rehabilitation of water supply sources for thousands
of Level I and Level II water systems (Annex 2); installation of distribution
networks for hundreds of Level II systems; provision of district maintenance
facilities; research and testing of equipment for low-cost systems;
installation of thousands of sanitary toilet units; construction and testing of
pilot wste stabilization ponds; and assistance vith the preparation of solid
wastes management, flood control and drainage projects for Manila (Part I,
paras. 8-10)..
iii.        Particularly important parts of the project were: provisions for
training of the implementing agencies and the local Rural Waterworks and
Sanitation Associations (RWSA*); and for education at the beneficiary level on
public health and sanitation (Part I, para. 10).
iv.         The Project had some significant risks.  Firstly, coordination of
the rural components was delegated to the newly established Rural Waterworks
Development Corporation (RWDC).  On top of that, a high-level inter-agency
committee, the Project Implementation Review Committee (PIRC) was being
established   to  monitor   overall  project   performance   and   coordinate
implementation (Part I, paras. 4-6 & 12). And secondly, acceptability by the
intended beneficiaries of the Level II wvatr supply systems and of the sanitary
toilet facilities was uncertain.
Imnlementation Ex2erience
v.          The status and quality of preparation at the time the project was
appraised and the loan was approved was good. The project started up quickly
after a brief delay in meeting the conditions of loan effectiveness, and it
progressed satisfactorily for about the first 18 months.  Beginning in 1985,



- iii -
however, and persisting through the duration of the implementation period,
progress clmwed to well below the planned implementation timetable. In spite
of the delays, the Bank considered it worthwhile to continue with the project
end three loan closing dato extension. were approved.   The project was
substantially completed in June 1990, three years late, and the loan account
was closed in July 1990 (Part I, para* 14 & 15s Part III, Section 2.
vi.         The principal causes of delay were inefficient project management
and, particularly, the inability of the Government to provide the counterpart
funds necessary to maintain an appropriate project timetable (Part I, paras. 14
& 16; Part II, para. 5.7).
vii.        The appraisal cost estimate totaled P 484.7 million  (US$58.4
million equivalent) including P 4. million (US$0.5 million) for the front-end
fee on the Bank loan. Actual expenditures financed by government contributions
and Bank loan disbursments totaled about P 857.2 million (US$ 45.1 million
equivalent), including the fea, an apparent increase of about 772 when costs
are expressed in pesos, and an apparent decrease of about 23Z when expressed in
US$. This discrepancy is the result of major devaluations of the peso relative
to the USS during the course of the project (Part I, paras. 19-20).
viii.       RWDC performed poorly for four years, particularly in its role as
coordinating agency for the rural components of the Project. Eventually it was
disbanded and its tasks were handed over to the Local Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA). PIRC also failed to perform. The other implementing
agencies, MPWH and MNO performed reasonably well considering the difficulties
of the period (Part I, paras. 34-37).
Prolect Results
ix.         Overall, the project can be rated as a success in accomplishing the
physical and some of the institutional objectives, although with a delay of up
to three years*  This is particularly true when the prevailing difficult
economic and political conditions are taken into account. About 2.75 million
of the rural population are benefiting from new or improved water supply
systems, and about 450,000, from the installation of sanitary toilet
facilities. The risk that the sanitary toilet units might be unacceptable was
disproved.  Acceptability of Level II water distribution systems, however,
proved to bp limited, resulting in delays in that project component (Part I,
paras. 25-26).
x.          The critical project shortcoming appears to have been the failure
to establish fully functioning, well trained RWSAs; apparently, this was
accomplished for loes than 25S of the nearly 11,000 Level I systems constructed
under the project (Part I, paras. 27-28).
Sustainabllitv
mi.         The critical requirement for fully achieving and possibly enhancing
the potential benefits of the project is the establishment of well trained
RWSAs for each of the Level I and Level II water supply systems constructed or
improved by the project. This requires the Philippine authorities to undertake
and persist with a long term, well organized and coordinated training and
education program (Part I, par&. 29).



- iv -
lindinas and Lasagne Learned
xii.        The coneept of the project was *ound.   It -was timely and well
planned. The physical components were reasonably well executed in spite of the
failures of the two principal coordinating bodies, and especially considering
the difficult economic and political conditions which prevailed. Roalization
of the full benefits of this project and any other rural water supply
activities in the Philippines requires a concentrated effort to Jevelop the
local agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities
provided.
xiii.       The principal lessons for a project of this type emerging from this
experience appear to be that:
(a) proj-et preparation to the point where contracts can be awarded as
soon as the loan is effective helps to get the project started
quickly (Part I, paras. 13-14)5
(b)   full supervision missions should visit  the project  at fairly
frequent intervals during the early and any other critical periods
(Part I, para. 31);
(c)   when a project extends over a long period and particularly when
there have been significant staff changes in the implementing
agencies, Bank procurement and disbursement specialists should
visit the project along with Bank supervision staff and conduct
refresher courses in procurement end disbursement procedures for
local staff directly responsible for implementing those procedures.
Also, Bank supervision staff should couduct periodic review
sessions with responsible local staff on the financial reporting
requirements for the project (Part I, paras. 33 & 37);
(d)   the  Bank  should  insist  on  the  use  of  special  accounts  and
statements of expenditure when these would be appropriate (Part I,
para. 24);
(e)   for some projects where counterpart funds are difficult for the
project implementing agency to obtain, the Bank should consider
financing more of the local costs of training than the incremental
costs (Part I, para. 27); and
(f)   For projects involving exploration end development of groundwater
sources, the Bank should include in the project the necessary
provisions to develop and maintain a monitoring program (Part I,
para. 26).



PROJECT CCNPIZTI!O  REOT
ItDAL WATER UPPLT AND SAnITATIgK PROJECT (LOAN 2206-PH)
PART I * PJECT REVIEW 7RON BAK'S IZISPECTIVE
Proioet Identity
Project Nemes  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Loan Numbers   2206-PH
RVP Unit:      Asia Regional Office
Countrys       Philippines
Borrower:      Republic of the Philippines
Sectors        Water Supply
Bagktround
1.          Sector Develonment Cbiectivos.   By the  lato-1970s  Government
intere-t in improvement of community water supplies, previously aimed almost
exclusivaly at the Manila metropolitan area, provincial cities and the larger
towns, had begun to focus serioualy on the improvement and development of water
supplies in rural areas throughout the country, where low-income families were
largely dependant on unsafe water supplies. There vas also the beginning of an
official awareness of the importance of improving the extremely poor sanitary
conditions in those areas.
2.          Influenced  in part by the  objectives  of  the United Nations
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD), to which
the Government subscribed, and strongly supported by sanitary engineering and
public health professionals, the Government produced a national "Integrated
Water Supply Program  1980-2000" in 1980.  Following that, the "Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Master Plan" was prepared.   Both those plans were
comprehensivs and based on IDWSSD's ambitious targets.
3.          The objectives for rural water supply were that by 2000, about 301
of all rural clusters of households would be erved by protected water sources
without distribution systems and about 70X would have piped distributior
system with public faucets. For sanitation, the aim was to provide all rural
households with sanitary exoreta disposal systems by 1990.  For each rural
water system a Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association would be formed and
trained to operate and maintain the system.   It also was intended that
education in personal sanitation and public health would be provided together
with the improved water supply and sanitation facilIV±as.
4.          Proiect Preyaraticn.   The Bank was instrumental in laying the
foundations for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project through earlier
lending operations (Part III, Section 1), assistance with sector studies and
participation in UNDP-funded technical assistance projects. The Second Manila
Water Supply Project (Ln. 1615-PB approved in 1978) included a component for
preparation of a rural water supply program.   The Second Provincial Cities
Water Supply Project (Ln. 1710-PH and Cr. 920-PH, approved in 1979) included
some rural water supply and pilot sanitation activities, and establishment of
the Rural Water Supply Development Corporation (RWDC) was a condition of
disbursement for the rural water component.



-2-
5.          Project preparation prnceeded rather elowly but steadily until a
specific project could b- identified and prepared for appraical which took
place in Uovsmber 1981.   By then, RWDC   Intended an the agency to be
responsible for overall coordination of the project, appeared to be established
as a viable corporation.  Preliminary assesaents of water supply resources
available for torget rural populations had been carried out.
6.          By  the  time  the  Bank  loan  was  approved,  typical  designs,
specifications, bid documents and manuals for operation, maintenance and
accounting had been prepared by RWDC, largely by consultants fiuanced through
Loan 1710-PH and a UNDP funded project, and were in use. Project accounting
systeAs were reported to bo In plaea in the implementing agencies, and a high-
level inter-agency Project Implementation Review Committee (PIRC) had been
established, the technical staffing of which would be completed by March 31,
1983.  As a condition of effectiveness, an Executive Order had been signed
mpowering RWSAs to undertake sanitation functions.
Prolect Obilctives and DescXiution
7.          O fjtivsc.  The Project's major objectives were to help develop
and mobilize local resources for the rural water and sanitation sector, and to
assist with the organization and strengthening of the responsible local
institutions. These objectives were to be achieved through implementation of
part of the Government's rural water supply and sanitation programs, with
priority given to the areas of greatest need. Coordination capacities of the
several agencies involved were to be Improved, as would the capacity to
mobilize and develop local community participation in the planning,
implemeuntation and operation of water supply and sanitation facilities.
S.          Desri2tion.  Annex I provides the description of the Project as
given in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement. More detail is included in Annex 2
and in Part III Section 4. The Project essentially was a sector project. The
targets  for  water  supply  included:  construction  end  development  or
rehabilitation of about 10,000 water sources of various types, mainly wells,
for Level I system (Annex 2); construction and development of water sources
and installation of distribution systems for about 400 Level II systems;
disinfection of public well.; construction and equipping of 12 workshops at
Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPW) district offices; and research and
testing of equipment suitable for low-cost rural water systems.
9.          for rural sanitation the  targets were: installation of about
750,000 sanitary toilet units.; and construction and testing of about 12 pilot
wast- stabilization ponds.
10.         The Project included provisions for training at all levels of the
implementing agencios, and especially for the local Rural Waterworks and
Sanitation Associations (RWSAs). A particularly important part of the Project
vas the provision for educstion at the beneficiary level on public health and
sanitation to be administered by the Ministry of Health (MOH). And finally,
the Project Included assistance with the preparation of solid wastes
management, flood control and drainage projects for Manila.



-3-
Plrgiect OrganAigtion and Desien
11.         Prglect olranization was complicated, lavolving sevoral agencies.
MM  was to b- responsible for itplementation of the Level I water supply
systems, the     ce developmant for Level II systems end the preparation of a
drainage and _..ood control project for Manila.  RWDC was to be romponsible for
the Level II distribution facilities. NOR would be responsible the sanitation
component and for public health education. Each agency would be responsible for
its training activities with some coordination providod through an inter-agency
cointtee.
12.         RWDC,  although newly  established,  was  to be  responsiblo  for
coordination of all rural water supply end sanitation activities included in
the Project.   And the high-level PIRC (Part I, para. 6) responsibilitia.6
included monitoring project performance, overall coordination of implementation
activities and verifying disburser.nt claims before subml.asion to the Bank.
13.         Prol-ct Desien.  Because of the nature of the project, much of the
project designs were simple, replicable and generally proved to be appropriate
for low-cost facilities end systems. For the most part they had been prepared
and were in use by the time the Bank loan was approved. Exceptions included
design standards for the Level 1I water distribution systems *ad for the
sewerage required to support the pilot waste stabilization ponds.  In both
cases, assumptions made about the arrangement of clusters of residences in
rural areas proved to be unrealistic.
Project ImlIementation
14.         Imolec=tAlion Schedule.   After a short delay in meeting the
conditions of loen effectiveness, the Project got off to a fast start.
Contract award decisions had already been approved by the Bank and awards were
made immediately. After about the first year, however, progress was slowed
dramatically by the deterioration of the national economy end the resulting
fallure by the Government to provide the necessary counterpart funds.  This
problem persisted through most of project period. Further delays resulted from
inefficient project administration, caused partial-y by changes in management
and reorganizations of tho implementing agencies during the period of political
unrest, beginning in 1984, end the change in Government after the revolution,
in 1986.
15.         As  the  original  scheduled  completion  and  loan  closing  date
approached in 1987, it was clear that while the project probably would continue
to proceed at a slow pac, compared to the original timetable it remained a
worthwhile investment, and the Bank agreed to a one year closing date extension
to December 31, 1988. This process was repeated in 1988 and again in 1989 when
the closing date was extended for the last time to June 30, 1990.
16.         Procurement.  Part of the weaknesses in project management which
contributed to delays was evident in the moderate procurement problems of each
of the implementing agencies beginning in 1985. There were no major deviations
from Bank procurement procedures which resulted in refuual to finance a
contract, but there was a persistent tendency by the agencies to try to
negotiate with low bidders, reject single bids and call for rebidding, all
contrary to efficient procurement and to the Bank guidelines.



17.         This tendency was o     plifted by a Presidential decree In 1988 which
lisited contract awards to narrow lilts relative to agency cost estimatoe. In
1989, as a result of coordinated representation* by the Bank and other aid
agencles, government legal authorities ruled that the decree would apply to
projects financed by international agencies only in cases where it was
acceptable to the international agency.
18.         Procurement by acm  agencieo, particularly MOh, was occasionally
lax in assuring that the quality of goods offered in bids or actually delivered
was consistent with the specifications on which bids were invited. Another
problem was that the wide geographical coverage of the project and the large
a*ount  of some rather small item  procured resulted in storage, security and
distribution difficulties.
19.         Proi-et Costs and  ip'anpU.   Summaries  of project costs and
finaneing as estimated at appreisal and upon completion of disbursements are in
Part III, Section S. The appraisal estimate totaled P 484.7 million (US$58.4
uillion equivalent) including P 4.1 million (US$0.5 million) for the front-end
fee on the Bank loan. Actual expenditures financed by Sovernment contributions
and Bonk loan disburements totaled about P 857.2 million (US$ 45.1 million
equivalent), including the fee, an apparent increase of about 77Z when costs
are expressed in peaos, and an apparent decrease of about 231 when expressed in
USS. This discrepancy is the result of devaluations of the peso relative to
the US$; the exchange rate went from an average of US$ 1.0 - P 8.54 in 1982 to
US$ 1.00 - P 23.3 when the last Bank disbureement was made.
20.         Total Bank loan disburaemnts of US$28.93 million (US$6.57 million
of the loan was cancelled) financed about 64% of project expenditures expressed
in US$.  This was slightly more than the appraisal forecast of 611.  The
government contributions of counterpart funds finaneed about 362 of
expenditures, as  forecasted.  Data are not available on the amount of user
contributions to costs which may be included in the government allocations.
User contributions were expected to cover about 32 of total costs.
21.         DisburemeMnt. The estimted and actual rates of disbursements are
shown in Part III, Section 3 (a), and the original and final loan allocations
are in Part III, Section 3 (b). Disbursements took place over a period of more
than 7 years (March 1983 to July 1990), an overrun of two and one half years
compared to the appraisal forecast. During about the first year disbursements
exceeded forecasts by as much as 901.  The disbursement rate slowed abruptly
beginning in the last half of 1984 as the pace of the project slowed (Part I,
para. 14).
22.         At the request of the Borrower, US$6.5 million of the loan was
cancelled in December 1987 when the first closing date extension was granted.
Two other extensions were made,  the last to June 30, 1990.   The final
disburement was made on July 10, 1990 when the unused loan balance of
US$70,000 was cancelled.
23.         There were two rovisions to the amounts permitted to be disbursed
against actual expenditures, both made to reflect changes experienced in the
cost and type of construction activities.   Final disbursements  for all
categorios were within 15 of the original allocations, except for consultants
services and training.  In both cases, much less was accomplished under the
project than originally planned. About US$14.1 million (492) of the loan was



-5-
disbursed in local currency, compared to US$10.3 million (about 302 of the
original loan amount) shown in the appraisal forecasts.
24.         There were more than 600 loan withdrawal applications.  Of these,
nearly 25Z were for amounts less than US$10,000, with an average value of about
US$3,000, and about 152 had an average value of less than US$500. This shows
that the implementation agencies' use of Special Accounts and Statements of
Expenditure was very inefficient.  Also, Bank records show that preparation of
withdrawal applications was often sloppy, particularly by MOH, requiring Bank
requests for clarification, return of applications and delayed disbursements.
Project Result.
25.         Obiectives Met.  Most of the project's physical objectives have
been met, or exceeded, albeit with a delay of up to three years.  As a result,
about 2.75 million people are benefiting from safe and relatively convenient
wator supplies, and about 450,000, from the availability of sanitary toilet
facilities.   Level II water systems proved not to be readily acceptable,
however, with the result that progress fell far behind schedule. Probably the
least satisfactory project results were in the interrelated institution
building, training and RWSA formation aspects.
26.         Physical Results.   The best physical accomplishments were  in
development and rehabilitation of water sources for Level I water supply
system  which exceeded targets by nearly 75Z.   While this is impressive,
quality control was not; for most of wells constructed or rehabilitated, there
was seldom any monitoring of important topographical, geological or hydraulic
date.  Thg least successful physical result was in the completion of pilot
waste stabilization ponds, where only one of the planned 12 was constructed.
In this case, however, the problem was largely that availability of suitable
communities and sites for the pilot installations appears to have been greatly
overestimated at the project planning stage.  A comparison of the original
goals and actual accomplisbment of the physical components is in Part III,
Section 4.
27.         Institutiopal/Trainint Results. The Borrower's contribution to the
PCR, correctly points to the critical importance to the success of the Project
of the formation of the RWSAs (Part II, para. 6.2). Reports indicate, however,
that less than 252 of the nearly 11,000 Level I systems constructed under the
project have fully functioning RWSAs. If this is approximately correct, there
have been problems in creating RWSAs and this very important component of the
Project's institutional development objectives has been unsuccessful. Evidence
supporting this conclusion is in the loan disbursement data which shows that
less  than 301 of the funds allocated for training were withdrawn.   One
possibility is that disbursement of only the incremental local currency cost of
training    (estimated  at  about  302)  is  not  sufficient  inducement  for
organizations to divert the necessary but scarce counterpart funds from other
Uses.
28.         Although data is limited, MOh activities in public health training
and education appear to have been reasonably successful. If so, integration of
rural water supply and sanitation training during the project could have been
of great benefit. Efforts made during the project to develop such integration
through a joint training working group were not successful.



-6-
Protect Sustainabilit -
29.         The  benefits  achieved  by  the  project  are  probably  somewhat
overstated because of the unsatisfactory performance in establishing fully
functioning RWSAs, the questionable quality of some of the new water sources,
and the fact that operation and maintenance of Installed facilities by local
coinunities has been reported to be inadequats. The benefits can be achieved
fully, however, and perhaps they can even be increased-by the establishment of
well trained RWSAs for each of the Level I and Level II systems and the
upgrading of existing RWSAs. This would require a well-organized long term
training effort coordinated with public health training and education. But the
question Is whether the authorities are willing and able to undertake and
persist in continuing such an effort.
Bank Performance
30.         Preparation of the project by the Bank was good.  By the time the
loan was approved all preparatory steps necessary for a quick start had been
taken, and procuremont was underway quickly.   There were no significant
problems with the designs and bid documents reviewed and approved by the Bank
in advanc*.
31.         Bank full supervision missions during the first three years after
loan effectiveness were widely spaced 12 to 15 months apart. And even though
there were more frequent visits to the Philippines by staff mainly concerned
with other projects, but who looked at certain aspects of this project as well,
it is questionable that sufficient attention was given in the field to this
project during its early stages.   It is possible, for example, that more
concentrated attention to RWDC and PIRC In the field might have improved their
performance, although the political situation at the time might have been an
unsurmountable obstacle.
32.         The records indicate  that the  Bank wao  generally  prompt  in
responding to project developments and the needs of the implementing agencies.
There were several changes in Bank staff during implementation, but the
overlaps were good and this did not appear to cause any problems.  More
continuity of assigned staff could have been a help, however, since there were
so many reorganizations and staff changes on the Borrower's side.
33.         The project experience Indicates that since the project extended
over a long period, and there were so many staff changes on both sides, the
project would have benefited from an early field visit by Bank procurement and
disbursement specialists and Bank supervision staff to conduct refresher
courses in procurement and disbursement procedures and problems for local staff
actually involved in those aspects of the project.
Borrowerl/Iwlementinz Agencv Performance
34.         RWDC performed poorly for four years, particularly in its role as
coordinating agency for the rural components of the Project. Placing RWDC in
this role was an acknowledged risk, but a necessary one in the effort to
consolidate the fragmented responsibility for the rural water and sanitation
sector. Establishment of RWDC was not a bad concept. The problem was that it
never received the necessary political support, either before the revolution,
or after the change in Government   It never had full-time management and it



-7-
wao  never fully staf fed.  And, of course, during the economic recession, it
never received the government funds needed to carry out its activities. RWDC's
takeover by LWUA In 1987 had promise of being a definite improvement.
35.         PIRC, as an overseeing inter-agency comimttee, also was a failure
to the point of being practically non-existent during most of the project. It
vas made up of government ministers (later, department directors) to whom the
project was of little interest compared to their other concerns. It appears
that the Government never perceived PIRC's role as particularly important and
the Bank never took a strong stand on the issue of its performance.
36.         DPWH and DOH performed reasonably well, especially considering that
they were subjected to extensive reorganizations and staff changes during the
period of political unrest and following the change in Government.   Their
Project Management Offices were frequently understaffed, however, and quality
control of some works was lacking.
37.         Financial  reporting  by  some  of  the  implementing  agencies,
particularly on operations and expenditures relative to the project, started
off reasonably well but tended to deteriorate as the project progressed. Audit
reports were always late, sometimes by more than a year. A report by a Bank
consultant late in the project stated that responsible staff appeared not to
know what was expected or required by the Bank. This indicates that part of
the problem may have been the result of staff changes.   This experience
suggests that in-depth review sessions for responsible local staff should be
conducted periodically by Bank staff.
Consultint Services
38r         Management by the implementing agencies oZ their consultants and
the quality of the services provided by the consultants were very good.
Project Documentation and Data
39.         There were no problems with the  legal agreements which vere
standard and appropriate for this type of project. The staff appraisal report
was satisfactory as a guide during project implementation.  Data relevant to
the preparation of the project completion report (PCR) was not readily
available, however. Supervision reports, particularly in the format used from
PY 85 through FY 89, do not provide sufficient information to serve as the
basis for a PCR. Aide memoires are important aids for mission effectiveness,
but their value is limited because they cannot be fully candid and therefore
are not fully informative for internal Bank purposes. However, the Back-to-
Office reports were more frank.
40.         For this project,  as a result of infrequent and only brief
missions, Bank staff did not leave a very good paper trail.  To facilitate
implementation, on-the-spot decisions were made frequently by Bank staff in the
field (see Part II, para. 8. 1), and the details of these often were not
recorded in the Aide memoires or in Bank files.
Findings and Lessons Learned
41.         The concept of the project was sound.   It was timely and well
planned. The physical components were reasonably well executed in spite of the



failures of the two principal coordinating bodies, and especially considering
the difficult economic and political conditions which prevailed. Realization
of the full benefits of this projoet and any other rural wvter  supply
activities in the Philippines requires a concentrated offort to develop the
local agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the facilities
provided.
42.         The principal lessons for a project of this type emerging from this
experience appear to be that:
(a)   project preparation to the point where contracts can be awarded as
soon as the loan is effective is an almost sure way to get the
project started quickly (Part I, paras. 13-14);
(b)   full supervision missions  should visit the project at fairly
frequent intervals during the early and any other critical periods
(Part I, para. 31);
(c)  when a project extends over a long period and particularly when
there have been significant staff changes in the implementing
agencies, Bank procurement and disbursement specialists should
visit the project along with Bank supervision staff and conduct
refresher courses in procurement and disbursement procedures for
local staff directly responsible for implementing those procedures.
Also, Bank supervision staff should conduct periodic review
sessions with responsible local staff on the financial reporting
requirements for the project (Part I, paras. 33 & 37);
(d)   the Bank  should  insist  on  the  use  of  special  accounts  and
statements of expenditure when these would be appropriate (Part I,
para. 24);
(e)   for some projects where counterpart funds are difficult for the
project implementing agency to obtain, the Bank should consider
financing more of the local costs of training than the incremental
costs (Part T, pars. 27); and
(f)   For projects involving exploration and development of groundwater
sources, the Bank should include in the project the necessary
provisions to develop and maintain a monitoring program (Part I,
para. 26).



9-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
faui. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 2206-PB)
PART I. flOJECT REVIEW nROM BORROWER'S PBRSPECTIVE11
hackzr2xad
43.         The declared policy of the Philippine Government is to provide safe
and adequate water supply and sanitation facilities to every Filipino household
and coincides with the United Nations " International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade Program" (IDWSSD).
44.         To support the IDWSSD, the Integrated Water Supply Program 1980-
2000 (the Program), was formulated in July 1980 through an Inter-agency Task
Force chaired by the then Ministry of Public Works (MPW), now the Department of
Public  Works  and  Highways  (DPWH).    Member   of  the  Task  Force  vere:
representatives from the MPW; the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
(MWSS); the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA); the Rural Waterworks
Development Corporation (RWDC), now absorbed into LWUA; the National Water
Resources Board (NWRB); and the Department of Local Government (DLG).  The
Program served as the fundamental framework in the formulation of a second
document, the " Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master Plan" (RWSSMP) in
1982.
45.         The Master Plan spells out the objectives, policies and strategies
of the Government pertaining to the rural water supply and sanitation sectors
It also presents the program targets, investment requirements and methods of
implementation.
46.         The Master Plan envisioned accomplishment of the following water
supply projects by the year 2000:
(a)   Iimediate Proeram (1983):
(i)   Provide all barangays with at least Level I (point source)
systems by the end of 1983.
(ii) Rehabilitate, repair or replace all nonfunctional public
wells (as of 1981).
,LI         This is an abridged version of a Completion Report prepared by LWUA
in 1990 in collaboration with DOE and DPWH. In shortening the original, no
expressions of opinion have been changed or eliminated and the general sense
and unity of LWUA's report have been retained. Some data included in tables in
the original text are considered by Bank staff to be unnecessary for the
purposes of the PCR and have been deleted.  Other pertinent data have been
incorporated in the statistical information provided in Part III of this report
or are given in the report annexes.



- 10 -
(iii) Provide Level II water supply systems to at least 50 porcent
of the rural towns and 10 percent of the rural barangays.
(iv)  Provide Level III water supply service to about 25 percent of
the poblaciones.
(b)   Middle Range Procrem (1984-86)t
(1)   Provide about 30 percent of rural barangays with Level II
water supply service by the and of 1986.
(li)  Rehabilitate/repair remaining non-functioning wells.
(iii) Provide all clusters of population with 50 households or moro
with a minimum of Level I water supply systems.
(iv)  Provide all towns with a minimum of Level III water service.
(c)   Lont Range Protram (1987-1995)
(i)   Provide about 50 percent of rural barangays with Level II
service by the end of 1990.
(ii)  Provide all rural towns with Levol III service by 1995.
(iii) Provide Level II service to about 70 percent of all clusters
of 50 or more households while the remaining 30 percent will
have Level I service.
47.         About 1,217,200 sanitary toilets were to be constructed between
1983 and 1986.   Also, about 895,270 wlls of various types were to be
disinfected and 12 waste stabilization ponds were to be constructed in 12
regions.   Around 3.4 million additional sanitary facilities were to be
constructed and roughly 2.1 million additional wells ware to be disinfected by
1990.
Obiectives
48.         Tho objective was to effect full utilization of resources - money
and manpower - in the development of rural water supply and sanitation through
institutional and co  unity development reforms.
Scono of the Proiect
49.         The Rural Water Supply  and Sanitation  Project  (the Project)
supported the objectives of the Master Plan and was impl_mented nationwide.
The Project also provided training, administration and health education, and
technical assistance on research, project implemeutation and preparation of
future project studies In the water and senitation sector.
50.         The main focus of the Project vas the rural end depressed areas of
the cowntry.   The Project was designed to uplift the living conditions of
people in those areas through provision of basic water supply needs and
sanitation. Social consciousness was likewise promoted and strengthened by the



- 11 -
institutional and comunity development reforms introduced by the responsible
government entities. Participation by each community was encouraged with the
formation of the Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association (RWSA), now the
Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Association (NWSA), which was a prerequisite
for construction of a water supply project.
Physical Accomolishment
51.         T       rt     For Level I systems, the project initially was programed
to provide by 1985: about 4,500 shallow wells and 2,300 deep wells; development
of about 300 spring sources; and the rehabilitation of about 2,900 non-
functional wells. It also involved construction of about 400 cosmunal faucet
(Level II) systems in densely populated communities where simple piped water
systems were most convenient. Construction of 12 workshops equipped with basic
tools to facilitate repair and maintenance of the water supply systems were
included as well as a nationwide well disinfection component.
52.         The project period was extended until the end of 1989, however, and
additional water supply components were added.-'
53.         For sanitation, about 750,000 toilet facilities were prograumed for
construction through provision of toilet bowls to individual households. With
the objective of introducing low cost community waste disposal systems,
construction of about 12 waste stabilization ponds were included in the
project. Due to a lack of available sites, however, only one pond system was
approved for construction.
54.         An important part of the Master Plan program is institutional
development.  The Project included the organization as well as training of
members of RWSAs by the responsible government agencies. Likewise, research
and devolopment and training of government personnel were undertaken to develop
advanced knowledge in water supply technologies.
55.         Accomnlishment. The following table shows the physical target and
accomplishment per component after 7 years.'Y
56.         BenefitsIlmnact Assessment.   Presently thousands of households
benefit from potable water and sanitation facilities provided through the
project. Obviously, this improves the living conditions of the beneficiaries
since they can always have water for drinking as well as for other domestic and
productive purposes.
57.         Summarizing,  the  assessed  impact  of  the  Project  on  the
beneficiaries is as follows:
(a)   Economic - reduced travel time in fetching water, hence providing
more time for productive activities; reduced illness/death rate,
thus saving on medical expenses.
it          Table included here was deleted by Bank staff and pertinent data is
incorporated in Part III, Section 4.
It          Table included here was deleted by Bank staff and pertinent data is
incorporated in Part III, Section 4.



- 12 -
(b)  Health - reduced illness and death rates associated with water
quality and wastes disposal since sources of pollution and
sanitation are reduced.
(c)   Social - improved knowledge and skills of beneficiaries in terms of
health and sanitation practices, operation and maintenance of
facilities and basic accounting and bookkeeping through training
and seminars provided to BWSA members.
(d) Environmental - safeguard of the environment is assisted through
the beneficiaries improved knowledge of health and sanitation,
hence, improved quality of life.
Cost and Disbursement
58.         Proioct Cost.  The Project was financed through a World Bank loan
equivalent to US$35.5 million,  roughly P 294.55 million.   The Government
counterpart cost was about P 190.07 million, a total of P 484.62.'1
59.         There were two project components: (a) water supply, implemented by
DPWH and RWDC/LWUA, and (b) sanitation, implmented by DOH.
60.         Between 1983 and 1987, the government infused new funds for
additional water supply facilities. The change in exchange rates from P 8.30
to 25.00 per US dollar, however, resulted in an increase in the original
project cost.
61.          The Project was expected to be completed in December 1987. Due to
a large amount of undisbursed loan, however, the Government requested an
extension of loan validity to December 31, 1988 and cancellation of US$6.0
million of the unditebursed balance of the loan, which the Bank approved .1 At
this time the Bank also agreed to the first of two reallocations of the loan
proceeds.
62.         Disbursements.  The revised loan amount was about US$29.0 million.
A summary of loan utilization by agencies Is shown below:!
11          Bank staff note: The appraisal estimate of total cost, excluding
local duties and taxes and the front end fee on the Bank loan, was P 480.6
million, of which P 290.5 million equivalent was to be provided by the Bank and
the balance of P 190.1 was to come from the government and users contributions.
See Part III, Section 5.
!I          B-ank staff note: the Bank actually agreed to cancel US$6.5 million
effective December 23, 1987. A further US$0.07 million was cancelled when the
loan account was closed on July 11, 1990 after two more closing date
extensions. See Part III, Section 3 (a).
it          Bank staff note: the figures given do not include the final
disbursements of about US$ 88 thousand made in July 1990.



- 13 -
Amount Disbursed
Aaencv            (USS mllions)
DPWh                 12.168
DOB                   8.331
LWUA/RWDC             7.815
Front End Fee         0.525
TOTAL          28.839
63.         The Government disbursements totaled P 256.83 million: P 186.2
million by DPWH; P 45.85 million by DOH; and P 24.78 million by LWUA.
64.         Financill Evalution. The series of peso devaluations in the 1980s
caused loan realignment. For example, LWU transferred funds for civil works
to procurement to cover price increases for construction materials, and DOH
projects were delayed by one year.   Over the period 1983-1988 inclusive,
allocation* of counterpart funds to DOB by the Gov-rnment wore about 462 of
what DOB had requested.
Institutional ConsiderAtions
65.         RWA  Formation  and  Reaistratlo.    Executive  Order  No.  577
stipulates that before any water supply project is constructed, a RWSA must
first be formed, organized and registered. The R'WSA is a non-profit and non-
stock organization whose members are the heads of households of the community
which shall own, operate and maintain the water system.
66.         The success of the project relies heavily on the commitment and
full understanding of the RWSA officers and members of their duties and
obligations to the project. lance, formation of the RWSAs in all levels of
water supply systems is necessary.
67.         Presentl9V, the Project Management Office-Rural Water Supply (PMO-
RWS) has a list of 2,460 Level I RWSAs registered with the YWC. These figures
were reported by about 45 percent of the DPWH District Engineering Offices. It
is assumed that more Level I RWSA. have actually been formed and registered but
that the information wa not forwarded to PMO-RWS.
68.         T_rainin  Proarams.  To ensure success of the Project, a systematic
development of the attitudes, skills and knowledge of staff of the implementing
agencies is imperative. Hence, the PHO-RWS in coordination with the Manpower
Development Service of DFWH embarked on a massive human resources development
program for the administrative and technical staff of the central and field
1           Bank staff note: apparently this statement reflected the situation
about the middle of 1990.



- 14 -
offices. Preo 1983-1988, a total of about 23 different training courses were
conducted wlth about 1,900 participants from DPWHJ1
69.         Aside from the courses for DPWH personnel, training programs were
carried out nationvide for the project beneficiaries - RWSA officers and
rmebers - on the following subjects; RWSA pre-membership and RWSA formation;
skills for caretakers and operators of Level I and II water systms; and RWSA
management and accounting procadures.a1
70*         The DOH hao  been conducting in-house training long before the
implementation of the Project, and about 3,000 Rural Sanitary Inspectore (RSIs)
received about two months training for the implementation of the Project.
During the project, large numbers of rural health midwives, RSIs, sanitary
engineers, medical technician., barangay health vorkers, RWSA officers and
members and others received DOB training.1'
71.         ealtbh Education Program.   Health education programs played an
important coamunity role in preparation for and implementation of the Project.
In the rural voter supply training courses for the RWSAs, one component was
sanitation which included water quality and control, proper excreta disposal
and the proper operation and maintenance of the water systems.
72.         Aside from the formal training programs, health education was also
undertaken l informal group meetings with barrio officials, religious and
civic groups and the mothers' classes. DOR also supplements those activities
with the circulation of educational material through the mass media such as
radio programs.
Technclc 1assistance
73.         Consultants were hired to assist DPWH, DOh and RWDC/LWUA as agreed
by the Government and the Bank. DPWU engaged an international joint venture
firm of engineering consultants (USA and Japan)11, and notice to proceed was
issued on February 17, 1984.
74.         One major undertaking of the consultants was the development of an
integrated water supply program.   Series of demonstration  schemes were
undertaken in various barangays in seven pilot training grounds to provide
practical experience in the implementation of water supply and sanitation
projects.
75.         The terms of reference of the consultants included 11 different
research and development projects ranging from alternative levels of water
service, to low cost construction and rehabilitation of various types of wells,
to the use and testing of various  types of construction and operating
I/          Bank staff note:  detailed lists of the training programs and
numbers of participants, and descriptions of the preparation and organization
of the training carried out by the rural water supply agencies and DOE have
been deleted as being unnecessary for the purposes of the PCR.
It          Name of consultants deleted by Bank staff.



- 15 -
equipment)"'  The results of all completed projects were positive and the
methods investigated have been Incorporated in the rural water supply
development program.
76.         The consultants also prepared the feasibility study, design and
specification; for the stabilization pond system for Cauayan, Isabela as well
as the survey and evaluation of 19 other proposed sites.
e1ationShinD with the B-nk
77.         The success  of the Project was enhanced by the cooperation and
assistance of tho Bank's various missions. On-the-spot decisions were readily
available. Problems outside of the implementor's authority were handled with
dispatch through consultation with higher authorities.
78.         The relationship with the Bank was cordial, thereby facilitating
the imediate identification of major as well as minor problems which needed
outright solution.   Issues were settled with dispatch and person-to-person
confrontations were always conducted. All of these were instrumental in the
satisfactory performance of the project.
Recommendations /Lssous Learned
79.         The  following  ar-  the  recommendations  learned  by  project
implementors:
(a)   Uniform policies on fCnancial assistance should be promulgated and
enforced to minimize overlapping of programs.  A single agency
mainly responsible for implementing rural water development
programs is necessary.
(b)   There should be careful planning and progrumming of projects.
Target settings for the program should be made with inputs from the
beneficiaries. Material requirements should be timed with project
implementation.  The experience has been that due to inadequate
planning, materials procured were not utilized or were not used
within a reasonable time, resulting in the deterioration of
waterworks materials in storage.
(c)   An integrated data bank for computer inputs from the three agencies
- DFWH, DON and LWUA - is needed for easy retrieval of data to
facilitate monitoring and evaluation of any of the agencies.
(d)   Water resources investigations are keys to the success of any water
supply project.   There were cases wherein the inadequacies of
sources (not discovered prior to approval of project areas) were
found to be the main cause of system breakdowns.
(a)   During project monitoring activities,  it was found that some
projects were constructed below standard. The attention of those
involved was called and remedial actions were taken.
A detailed list of all the consultants' research and development
projects ha been deleted by Bank staff.



- 16 -
(f) Devise an offactive monitoring system considering that documents
pass through several levlsl, ioe. barangay to the Municipal Health
Office, to the Provincial Health Office, then to the Regional
Health Office before reaching the central offices.
(g)   DPWE  regional  office personnel  should be more  aggressive  in
monitoring water supply projects and in providing technical
assistance to the district offices in preparation for the bigger
tasks ahead.
(h) Many DPWE district offices still submit delayed monthly progress
reports.   PEO-RWS has to either dispatch teams to gather the
information or to repeatedly comunicate (through radiograms or
telegrams) to the regional or district offices.
(i)   Direct  involvement  of  LGUs  should  be  minimized.    Program
implemntors should have adequate control of activities as wall as
the implementation through the water districts. The establishment
of LWUA field district offices should be looked into seriously.
Tapping of private expertise in the provinces should be considered
also.
(j)   Inadequacy of drilling contractors in several areas in Mindanac
were reported.   Established institutions like the Well Drillers
Association of the Philippines were tapped for assistance, but the
detailed arrangements ore still being workod out.
(k)   Thare was an increase in personnel turnover involved in water
supply development. The reason could bo the ongoing reorganization
of the DPWE whereby som were promoted or transferred to other
assignmnts.    Others  transforred  to the private  sector.   A
continued administration of training programs is therefore
necessary.
(1) There is a need to streamline the logistic systems from the central
office down to the municipal level to *nsure early receipt of
toilet bowls, chemicals and other supplies, and vehicles. This is
true also for tendering documents and procedures.
(a)   The Central Office PDO staff found it extremely difficult to manage
the sanitation project with limited contractual staff and large
dependency on designated field project management staff who are
also performing regular duties. Out of the 21 originally proposed
Central Office PO staff, only 5 were approved by the Ministry of
the Budget.
(n)   Many DPWE district offices were found to have limited capability or
to have difficulty in the formation of RWSAs. A success indicator
for a continued operation of a coumunity-managed water supply
system is an active and efficient RWSA.
(o)   Again, on institution building, it was observed that there is great
need to train not only DPWH staff but also the private drillers and
the "back yard" drillers as well.



- 17 -
(p)   The Central PMO st-ff cannot attend full time to project monitoring
and supervision of the Project aine it is an added responsibility
to their regular functions   There should be a separate PMO with
full-time staff to manage a project for the sanitation component.
(q)   Poor or low itcentives.  Cash disbursements are usually availed
later and cannot be utilized at the time they ar- needed most.
(r)   The concept of requiring beneficiaries to shoulder 10 percent of
the project cost as equity contributions may not be practical in
general since household incomes in the rural areas are very low.
(a)   Many beneficiaries rejected the concept of Level II service.  The
practicality of Level 11 delivery in terms of serviee coverage,
particularly in the number of households served per iaucet
(currently pegged at 4 to 6 households), must be reviewed.
Likewise, the per capita consumption at the rural level should be
reviewed.
(t)   The high per capita cost of construction of the stabilization pond
system is very hard to justify.
(u)   The initial cost estimates for stabilization pond construction were
undervalued: it was assumed, for example, that there were clusters
of houses on barrio roads.  This was not the actual situation,
however. Also, expected sewer lines were nonexistent and new ones
had to be added, thereby increasing the comiodity requirements.
Therefore, only one of 12 planned ponds was constructed.
(v)   For toilets, beneficiary households contributed about 86 percent of
construction costs as based on the PRC approach. This took longer
to construct since there were more pessing needs than for toilets.
(iw) Yuture projects of this nature which rely heavily on home owners
motivation and follow-up should give sanitary engineers and
inspectors sufficient time for field visits.
(x)   Due to Philippine geography (i.o. so many island municipalities and
barangays), delivery of supplies like toilet bowls and chemicals
are slow and project implementation is delayed.



- is -
PROJECT COKPILTIOl REPORT
PHILIPPINES
RURUL WATER  UPPLY AND SAITATION PROJECT
(Losa 2206-PH)
PART III. STTISTICAL INTORNATIOI
1. Rolated Bank Loan  *nd Credit
Title                 Pur08os            Aobgroed    Status           Comment
Second Manila        Improve and expand        07/25/78   Complete    Project included
Water Supply          Manila Water Supply                   12/86       funds for
Project.              systam.                                          preparation of
(Ln. 1615-PU)                                                          rural water suroly
program.
Second Provincial    Expand community water   05/29/79   Scaled        Project included
Citios Water         supplies to more                      down        rural water supply
Supply Project.       smaller provincial                   project     and pilot sanita-
(Cr. 920-PB and      cities and several                    complete    tion programs.
Ln. 1710-PH)         hundred rural                         12/88       RWDC was created
communities and to                               under this project
initiate rural                                   as a condition for
sanitation programs                              disbursements for
the rural water
supply component.
First Water           To provide: rural         06/28/90   Loan         Project expands on
Supply, Severase     water supplies in 37                  became       the work started
and Sanitation       provinces in the Luzon                effective   in this project
Sector Project.       group; rural sanitary                01/15/91    (Ln. 2206-PH).
(Ln. 3242-PH)        facilities nationwide;
and to assist with
irprovment of
community and provincial
institutiona, private
sector releted
manufacturers and the
preparation and updating
of sector plans.



- 19 -
2. Project Timetable and Issues Raisod
a) Proisct Timetable
Activity/                   Date              Date               Date
Event                  Planned            Reviced             Actual
Project Identification                                                 May 1981
Initiating Project Brief                                               06/17/81
Preparation/Pre-Appraisal         01182                                11/81-12/81
Appraisal Mission                 04/82                                11/81-12/81
Negotiations                      06/82              05/82             07/19-23/82
06/82
07/82
Board Approval                    07/82              08/82             10/19/82
Loan Signature                                                         10/28/82
Loan Effectiveness                01126/83           03/25/83          03/17/83
Closing Date                      12/31/87           12/31/88          06/30/90
12/31/89
06/30/90
Final Disbursement                12/31/87           12/31/88          07/10/90
12/31/89
06/30/90
Project Completion                06/30/87                             06/30/90



- 20 -
2. Protect TiSmetble and Issues Raised (Continued)
b) Issues Raised (Preolnralsal throuah Board PresentatLon)
Preav2raisal StIas:  ----  overlapping of responsibilities between the various
agencies responsible for rural water supply;
lack of coordination between rural water supply and
sanitation offorts at the village level;
need to expand health education to ensure acceptance
and use of project facilities;
adequacy of training for design, implementation,
operation and maintenance of systems;
ability of authorities to prepare and implement a
realistic plan;
whether area approach to water supply development
would be more cost effective than trying first to
serve individual small systems;
whether RWDC should get into the construction business
or leave this to project enterprise;
whether the suggested first stage program of 27,000
water systems in four years is too ambitious; and
whether the project would include sufficient effort to
develop adequate local RWDC offices.
Appraisal Stage:      ----  creation of high level committee to organize and
coordinate currently fragmented rural water supply
operations;
creation and adequate staffing of project management
offices in PWH and MOB which should be condition for
negotiations;
including the sanitation function in the local Rural
Water Supply Associations which would become Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Associations; and
establishment of Project Implementation Review
Committee (PIRC) as condition of negotiations.
Post-Appraisal:       ----  that Government budget, as condition for negotiations,
should provide adequatE local funds for project for
1982 and 1983;
channelling of loan funds for various parts of the
project;
the means for proper coordination and accounting for
project funds;
whether construction of toilet pits, including bowl
installation, should be by force account or contract
or by beneficiaries;
degree and method of cost recovery for toilet units;
and
large size of technical assistance component for
preparation of future projects.



- 21 -
2. Project Timetable and Issues laised (Continued)
b; Ij3iselod  (PrE-aDuraisl throunh Board Presentation)
ManazeLent R.viws   ----  justification for $ 14 m proposed for administration
and training for the sanitation component;
----  lack of specificity for tech. assistance component;
----  nood for adequate accounting and internal control
system for recording and reporting of project related
expenditures by RWDC and MOR;
----  adequacy of provisions for maintenance of water supply
systems constructed under the project; and
----  need for statements of expenditure to be certified by
Project Manager and be subject to sudit.
N-sotlatlonas         ----  responsibility for preparation of Project Completion
Report;
----  need for independent audit of RWSAs accounts; and
----  responsibility for transfer of grant and loan funds to
RWSAs (whether through RWDC or MWPH).
board Presentation   ----  None.



- 22 -
3. * Lan DisburseMnt
a) Cumdlative Zstimatod and Actual Disbursements
(US $ millions)
IBERD FY             Appraisal                         Actual
and Semester             Estimate                                Z of Appraisal
End ma                 Amount                Amount              Estimate
1983
12/31/82                   0.5                     --
06/30/83                   2.0                  3.81                 1902
1984
12/31/83                   4.8                  5.88                 1222
06/30/84                   9.2                  7.40                  802
1985
12/31/84                  14.6                  8.80                  602
06/30/85                  20.4                 11.80                  581
1986
12/31/85                  25.4                 13.60                  541
06/30/86                  29.4                 14.94                  511
1987
12/31/86                  32.3                 16.40                  511
06/30/87                  35.5                 17.59                  502
1988
12/31/87                                       18.62                  521
06130188                                       20.46                  581
1989
12!31/88                                       21.80                  612
06130/89                                       23.97                  681
1990
12/31/89                                       26.07                  731
06/30/90                                       28.84                  811
1991
12/31/90                                       28.93                  811
Cancellations
12/23/87                  6.50
07/11/90                  0.07
Total Cancelled            6.57
Net Amotvnt of Loan         28.93
Closing Date:   Original: 12/31/87
Revised: 12/31/88
Revised: 12/31/89
Final: 06/30/90
Project Account Closed: 07/11/90



- 23 -
3. Logn Dieburmemnts (Continued)
b) Oriainal and Final Allocation of Proceeds
(US $ '000)
1/
Loan Anreemunt
S and rates         Yinal Disbursements
of                         of which for
expenditure       Total       Local Currency
Amount        to be           Amount               2 of
Catteorv            allocated    financed        Disbursed    Amount   Total
1. Equipment and materials    16,450                         14,917      2,871    19%
(a) directly imported                  100S of
foreign
expenditures
(b) locally                            100Z of local
manufactured                       expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                   652
2. Civil works                            In pecos
equivalent to:
(a) wells                    1,000     $100 per well       1,123      1,123    100%
(b) toilet units            6,000      $8.00/unit          5,361      5,232      98%
(c) workshops                  110     $9,000.00 per         108         --      --
completed
maintenance
shop
(d) stabilization                      $17,000.00            169         169    100%
ponds                              per completed
pond
3/
(e) level II water           3,300     $750.00 per         3,912      3,612      92%
systems                            completed
design and
$750.00 per
completed
system
NOTES:  I/  From Schedule 1 of Loan Agreement which was amended during the project
as described in the following notes.
2/ Amended effective 04/25/88 to add words, "and related works" and to
change amount of expenditure to be financed to 652 of expenditures.
3/ Amended 08/18/89 to allow disbursement for 702 of expenditures made on
or after 01/01/89.



- 24 -
3. Lon Disbursementc (Continued)
b) Original gad final Allocation of Procegdg (continued)
(US $ '000)
Losa Agreeaent
2 and rates          Yinal Disbursements
of                         of which for
expenditure       Total       Local Currencl
Amount        to be           Amount               Z of
_   Catexory          allocated    flncnced         Disbursed    Amount   Total
3. Consultant's Services        4,350      1OOZ                2,686        927      35Z
4. Training                       450                            126        103      822
(a) foroign                            lOOZ of
foreign
expenditures
(b) local                              30Z of local
expenditures
5. Pee                            525      Amount due            525
6. U9allocated                  3115                                 -        --     --
TOTAL       35,500                         28,927      14,145     49Z



- 25 _
4. Proiect IDlementation
Monitorina Indicators
3/
1/                              Actual
Original              2/                       S of
Goals        Revised                      Original
1983-1987       Goals        1983-1990        Goals
Level I Systems
DeVelO Sources
xehab.old vells       2,900           6,600          6,596          227Z
New vells
Shallow       4,500           6,780          6,767          150Z
Deep        2,300          3,562          3,407          148Z
Springs and
other source          300             566            566          1892
Total       10,000         17,508         17,336          1732
Level II Systems
Develop sources
Infiltration
galleries             20
Springs                 120
Deep Wells              260
Total         400             400            400          1002
Reticulati
Design          400            400            354           891
Construction         400             320            188           47Z
Maintenance
Workshols                   12             12             12          100S
Rural Sanitation
Waste Ponds                12               1             1            81
Household
toilets (000'.)         750             750            619           831
Disinfect water
sources (000's)         800                          1,554          1942
Investment Goals
(Peso millions)
Rural water             226.9                        563.5          2482
Rural sanitation        207.4                        234.8           1131
Technical Assist.        46.3                         54.0           1171
Total         480.6                        852.3           1771
_____------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--___
NOTES:      I/ Taken from Staff Appraisal Report, Annex 3.
2/ Revired goals as of 12/31/87.
3/ From Borrowers Project Completion Report.



- 26 -
5. Proect Costs and Financing
a) Aviwasal  stimates
uS S millions              Pesos millions
Comnon0nts             Forein   Local   Tot1 l      Foreian   Local   Total
Rural Water SuDDlv
Water Supply Systems              9.6      5.9    15.5        79.4     49.5   128.9
Equipment & vehicles              2.8      ---     2.8        23.2      ---    23.2
Maintenance facilities            0.1      0.2     0.3         0.9      1.2     2.1
Engineering                       0.4     0.8      1.2        2,8       7 0     9.8
Bass cost (mid-1982 prices)      13.3      7.5    20.8       110.0     62.5   172.5
Rura- Snila-tipn
Sanitary units                    2.7      1.1     3.8       22.7       8.9    31.6
Water quality surveillance        0.5      ---     0.5         3.7      ---     3.7
Stabilization ponds               0.2      0.3     0.5         2.1      2.4     4.5
Vehicles                          0.9      ---     0.9         7.6      ---     7.6
Training & Administration                 14.0    14.0                116.6   116.6
Base Cost (mid-1982 price.)       4.3     15.4    19.7        36.1    127.9   164.0
Coninnaencies
Physical 2I                       1.8      2.3     4.1        14.6     19.0    33.6
Price .1                          3.3      4.4    7.7         27.0    36.4    64.;
Total Contintencies             5.1      6.7    11.8        42.4     55.4    97.8
7OTAL CONSTRUCTION COST        22-7     29.6    52.3       188.5    245.8   434.3
Technical Assistance 4/            2.0    _3.6       5.6        16.6     29.7    46.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST             24.7     33.2    57.9       205.1    275.5   480.6
Front-end fee on Bank loan          0.5      ---     0.5         4.1      ---      4.1
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED           25.2     33.2    58.4       209.2    275.5   484.7
NOTES:
1/ Exchange rate used for appraisal estimates: US $ 1.00 - Pesos 8.3.
2/ Physical contingencies for appraisal estimates - 102 of base costs.
3/ Price contingencies for local costs in appraisal estimates - 1OZ of bass
costs for 1982 and 8Z thereafter.
Price contingencies for foreign costs in appraisal estimates - 81 of base
costs for 1982 and 1983, 7.51 for 1984, 71 for 1985 and 81 for 1986.
Al Includes technical assistance for preparation of future drainage and solid
wastes management projects for Metropolitan Manl-a.



- 27 -
5. Project Costs and Jliancinf (Continued)
b) Atgl Costs
Bank Loan         Government
Disbureements      Contributions          Totals
2a/      3
1/   Equiv.   Equiv.         1/
Comoonents                USS     Pesos      USS     Pesos      USS     Pesos
---------------- (millions) --------------------
RURAL WATER SUPPLY
A.   p
1. Construct and Rehab.      1.12     22.6      9.08    182.2    10.20    204.8
Systems
2. Construct Workshops       0.11       1.5     0.02      0.3      0.13      1.8
3. Haterials/Equip./-tc.    8.28    134.4       0.11       1.8     8.39    136.2
4. Training                  0.06       1.2     0.16      3.4      0.22      4.6
S. Consulting                2.69     51.4      0.14       2.6     2.82     54.0
Total           12.26    211.1      9.51    190.3    21.76    401.4
B. RWDC & LWUA
1. Construct Level II        3.91     84.8      3.28     71.1      7.19    155.9
Systems
2. Materials/Equip./etc.    3.89      60.0       ---      ---      3.89     60.0
3. Training                  0.01      0.2       -        ---      0.01      0.2
Total            7.81    145.0      3.28      71.1    11.09    216.1
Total Rural Water               20.07    356.1    12.79    261.4    32.85    617.5
SANITATION: DOB
1.  Construct/Rehab. Toilets    5.36    109.7        ---       ---     5.36    109.7
2.  Haterials/Equip./etc.        2.74      52.2      ---       ---     2.74      52.2
3.  Construct Waste Ponds        0.17       3.6     0.15       3.3     0.32       6.8
4.  Training                     0.06       1.2     0.01       0.2     0.07       1.4
5.  Administration               ----               3.23      64.6     3.23      64.6
Total Sanitation                 8.33    166.7      3.39      68.1    11.73    234.8
TOTAL PROJECT                      28.40    522.8    16.18    329.5    44.58    852.3
Up-Fron. Fee on Bank Loan        0.52       5.0                        0.52       5.0
TOTAL COST                          28.93    527.7    16.18    329.5    45.11    857.2
NOTES:
1/ From Bank disbursement records and data from Borrower's PCR.
2/ Pesos using Bank's loan disbursement data on actual pesos disbursed or, in
the case of foreign exchange disbursements, the equivalent pesos calculated
using the average market exchange rates (rf values) reported in the
"International Financial Statistics" published by IMF.
3/ Equivalent US$ calculated using Borrower's PCR data on local peso funding
converted to US$ using, for each project sub-component, the same average
exchange rates used for converting foreign currency loan disbursements to
pesos for that sub-component.



- 28 -
5  Proiset Coatsand Fia   anc  (Continued)
c) Proiect IlSUnciDE
Appraisal             Final
Forecast             Amounts
Z of                 Z of
Sources of Punds               Amo2nt Logl          Amount      Total
US$ 'Q00             US$ '000
Uoe of Funds
Rural Water Supply                      27.3       47Z       30.03      672
Rural Sanitation                        25,0       432       11.73      262
Technical Assistance                     5.6        92        2.82       6S
Sub-total                           57.9      992        44.58      992
Front-end fee                            0.5        12        0.52       1S
Total Uses         58.4     1002       44.11      1002
mm~~~~~~t mm mimm
Sources of Funds
World Bank j/                           35.5       612       28.93      642
Government                              20.9       362       16.18      362
Users' contributions                    2.0         32.-----
Total Sources         58.4     1002       45.11      1002
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------_
NOTES:
J'/ According to the Staff Appraisal Report, the Government expected to allocate
the Bank loan as follows:
- $ 12.3 a to MOR for construction of sanitation facilities;
- $ 14.7 m to MMWI for construction of Level I systems, vater source
development, engineering and training;
- $ 5.0 a to be loaned to RWDC for construction and engineering of Level II
systems; and
- $ 3.0 m to be used by the Government for the preparation of future
projects.



- 29 -
6. Project Result.
a) Direct Benefits
1/         Estimated At
Appraisal                       Full
Bonaflts                   Estimate     Cgosina Date    Development
Population served by rural water
supply component
Level I systems (supply at water
source only) 3/                        1,500,000        2,600,400      2,600,400
Lovel II systems (communal
faucets) A/                              200.000           94.000        177.000
Total             1,700,000       2,694,000       2,777,000
Population served by rural
sanitation 5/                          4,500,000        3,714,000      4,500,000
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__-----
NOTES:
/ As given in the Staff Appraisal Report for completion by 06/30/87.
S Since no factual data is available to contradict appraisal estimates, the same
assumptions about population served per unit or system is used for estimating
population benefiting from the project.
_/ For Level I systems; each water source is estimated to serve about 25
households of about 6 people.
A/ For Level II systems; each commmal faucet system is estimated to serve about
500 people.
S/ Each household toilet is estimated to serve about 6 people.



- 30 -
6. Proiect Result. (Continued)
b) ZEconomi Imoact
Actual
A22raisel E4timate           (At Final Development)
Economic Rate
of Return I/                 41 to 101                          Al
Underivina AssumDtions:
For apraisal estimatet The estimated internal financial rate of return
(IRR) was calculatod only for four typical villages with various kinds
of TVPe It water saytems. The 42 IRR was based on the assumption that
water charges would satisfy the requirement of meeting cash operating
expenses and debt service. The 101 ERR was calculated on the basis of
the assumption that beneficiaries would be willing to pay for the first
20 lped at the current rate charged by water vendors, and for an
incremental 28 lped provided by the project, at half the vendors' rates.
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------_
Comments:
I/ The economic return on the ovorall investment was not considered
quantifiable becavse of the impossibility of assigning monetary
values to health, community development and institutional benefits
expected to accrue from the project, and because overall revenues
resulting from the project would be negligible. Instead, the
estimated internal financial rate of return has been used as a proxy
for the minimum expected economic return from the investment.
t/ The estimated internal financial rate of return has not been
recalculated because of the lack of available financial data on
average water service charges and actual costs of operation and
maintenance by the RWSAs. Through 1990, however, RWDC aud LWUA, its
successor, had failed to cause the RWSAe to levy charge adequate to
cover operation and maintenance costs and debt service as required
under the project agreement (Part III, Section 7), and it is assumed
that the internal financial rate of return is negative.



_ 32 -
7. Status of Msaor-Cwovuuts
Covenant                    Subiect                           Compliance
Section of
Loan Amreamnt
2.03                Procurement of goods and civil    Compliance generally satis-
work, to be according to           factory, although with delays
Bank procurment procedures.        caused by difficulties in
molding local procurement
practice to conform to Bank
requirements. This was
amplified during period in
1988/89 when attempts were
made to apply the rules of
Presidential Decree 1594 to
procurement for this project.
3.01 (a)            Borrower tot cause RWDC to per-   Unsatisfactory compliance.
form in accordance with Project   Borrower support for RWDC was
Agreement; to take all action      poor. It failed to appoint
necessary to enable RWDC to        full-time managers or suffi-
perform such obligations; and      ciont competent staff, and it
*hall not take action which        was unable to provide coun-
vould prevent or intorfore         terpart funds promptly as
with such performance.             needed or to otherwise assist
RWDC to perform its obliga-
tions relative to the project.
3.01 (b)            Borrower to make $5.0 m of the    Satisfactory compliance.
loan available to RWDC under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLk)
3.01 (a)            Borrower not to assign, amend,    Satisfactory compliance.
abrogate or waive the SLA, or      Merging of RWDC into LWUA was
any provision thereof, without    done with the agreement of
Bank agrement.                     the Bank.
3.02                Borrower to carry out Parts B       Generally unsatisfactory
and C of the project and to        compliane. During most of
provide, promptly as needed,       project period, the Borrower
the required fundo, etc..          was unable to make adequate
and timely counterpart fund
contributions as necessary to
maintain a reasonable imple-
mentation schedule.
3.03                 Borrower to employ consultants    Satisfactory compliance.
In aecordance with Bank's
Guidelines.



- 31 -
6. Project Resultg (Continued)
c) Studies
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Avvr&ioal             Status           Impact of Study
Rural water supply      To review organ-      Study carried out     The original
sector organization     ization and roles   by inter-               review had little
study (Section 4.04     of the various        ministerial Rural     impact, merely
of Loan Agreement).     agencies active       Water Supply Sector   recommending
in the sector and    Review Committee and  retention of the
make recomlenda-     recommendations        status quo. The
tions for            furnished to the       findings of the
improvemonts,        Bank in 02/84. A       follow-up review
Recommendations      follow-up review       contributed to
agreed with the      was made in 1986.      the consolidation
B-nk were to be                             of RWDC into
implemented by                              LWUA.
12/31/83.



- 33 -
7. St-tus of Major Covenant (Continued)
Covenant                    Sublect                _COmplianCe
Section of
Loan Aereement
3.05 (b)            Borrower to maintain records        Compliance generally satis-
and procedures adequate to         factory, although poor commu-
record and monitor progress        nications between field
of Parts B and C (including        implementation units and
costs and benefits to be           project management offices in
derived), to identify goods        Manila caused reporting
and services financed from         delays and resulted in
the Loan, and to disclose          incomplete records of the
their use in the project, and      final disposition of some
furnish reports to the Bank        goods financed from the loan.
at regular intervals.
3.05 (d)            Not later than 6 months after       Satisfactory compliance.
loan closing date, or other
date agreed by Bank, Borrower
to furnish to Bank, through
RWDC, a Project Completion
Report on Parts B and C.
3.06                By March 31, 1983, Borrower to
complte staffing of:
(a) Project Implementation         Satisfactory initial
Review Comuittee (PIRC);           compliance.  PIRC staffing
and performance became
generally unsatisfactory,
however, and some of its
functions were taken over
eventually by DPWH and DOH.
(b) Project Management Office      Satisfactory compliance.
in MM!; and
(c) Project Management Office      Generally unsatisfactory
in MOR.                            compliance. During much of
project period, the PMO of MOH
was inadequately staffed.
4.02 (a)             Borrower to cause to be            Generally satisfactory
maintained, according to           compliance, although audits
appropriate procedures,            revealed some accounting
separate accounts/records          deficiencies.
of operations/expenditures,
in respect of the project,
of Ministries/agencies
responsible for Parts B and C.



- 34 -
7. Status of K-ior Covenants Continued)
_   Cov-nant_              Subiect                           Compliance
Loan Aaeeoment
4.02 (b)            Borrower to cause to be            Satisfactory compliance.
-maintained separate accounts      Special Accounts and
for expenditures against which    Statements of Expenditure
withdrawals are roquosted from   were not used to beat
the Loan on the basis of           advantage for this project,
Statements of Expenditure.        however.
4.02 (c)            Borrower to have accounts          Slow compliance. Almost all
referred to in 4.02(a) audited    financial statements and audit
and furnish to Bank within six    roports were furnished to the
months after end of fiscal year   Bank six to eight months late.
copies of audit reports,
including separate opinion on
expenditures referred to in
4.02(b).
4.03                Borrower to make arrange-          Partial compliance. Workshops
ments in regional level work-     were completed but the general
shop% to carry out major           level of maintenance is
maintenance of rural water         considered inadequate.
systems, and to ensure adequate
staffing and funding of such
workshops.
4.04                (i) By April 30, 1983, Borrower   Late compliance.  Review was
to review roles of rural water    completed and recommendations
sector agencies; and               furnished to Bank in 02/84.
(i4) By December 31, 1983,        Late compliance.  Recommenda-
Borrower to implement recommen-   tions of review, which were
dations arising from the review  mainly to retain status quo,
as agreed by Borrower and Bank.  were implemented during 1984.
Follow-up 1986 review resulted
in RWDC/LWUA consolidation.
5.01 (b)            For the purposes of Section         Satisfactory compliance.
5.02 (b)            6.02 of the General Conditions,   Amalgamation of RWDC with
paragraph (k) (suspension of       LWUA was done with the
withdrawals), or of Section 7.01  agreoment of the Bank.
paragraph (h) (acceleration of
maturity) the Borrower shall
have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment
of RWDC or for suspension of
RWDC operations.



- 35 -
7. Sta&tu of Major Covenants (Continued)
CovOnant                   Subiect                           Coml-iance
Sections 2f
Proi et Agreement
2.01                RWDC to carry out Part A of       Generally unsatisfactory
the project with due diligence    compliance.  RWDC did not co-
and efficiency,                   ordinate project rural vater
supply and sanitation activ-
ities as required and vas in-
efficient in developing RWSAs.
The implement-tion of Level II
water system by RWDC was slow
but this wa caused in part by
circumstances beyond the
control of RWDC and which also
hampered its successor, LWUA.
2.02                Procuremont of goods and civil   Compliance achieved with
works to be according to Bank     difficulty because of RWDC
procurement procedures.           reluctance to follow Bank
procedures.
2.04 (b)            RWDC to maintain records           Generally satisfactory
and procedures adequate to        compliance.
record and monitor progress
of Part A (including
costs and benefits to be
derived), to identify goods
and services financed from the
Loan, and to disclose their
use in the project, and furnish
reports to the Bank at regular
intervals.
2.04 (d)            Not later than 6 months after      Satisfactory compliance by
loan closing date, or other       LWUA, RWDC's successor.
date agreed by Bank, RWDC
to furnish to the Bank
Project Completion Reports,
including those for Parts B
and C referred to in Section
3.05(d) of Loan Agreement.
2.06                RWDC to appoint an official,       Unsatisfactory compliance.
acceptable to Bank, to be         During most of project period
responsible for Part A.           RWDC did not have full-time
competent officer responsible
for Part A.



- 36 _
7. Status of &ajo, Covnants (Continued)
Covenant                   Subiect                           ComDliance
Section. of
Proiect Aereement
4.01 (a)            RWDC to maintain separate          Satisfactory compliance.
accounts and records of its        Special Accounts and
operations and financial           Statements of Expenditure were
condition, including separate     not used to the best advantage
accounts of expenditures on        of the project, however.
account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan on
the basis of Statements of
Expenditure.
4.02                RWDC to have its accounts          Slow compliance.  Almost all
audited and furnish to Bank        financial statements and audit
within 6 months of fiscal year    reports were furnished to the
end copies of audit reports,       Bank six to eight months late.
including separate opinions
on the us, of Loan Proceeds
withdrawn on the basis of
Statments of Expenditure.
4.03                RWDC to cause RWSAs to:
(i) levy charges for Level II     Not complied with.  Few Bank
systems installed under Part A    financed Water Supply,
adequato to cover 06M costs and   Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
debt service requirements;         Project (Ln. 3242-PH) is
(ii) review charges with RWDC     addressing this problem.
annually In November; and
(iii) implement in January of
eack year changes necessary to
meet the requirements of (i).
4.04                RWDC to ensure that:
(i) RWSAs receiving RWDC loans    Not complied with.  Bank
have their accounts audited        agreed that this covenant was
*ach year; and                     impracticable because the
expense of audits of the
(ii) such audits are made          small simplistic accounts and
available to the Bank within       weak administration of most
six months of the end of each      RWSAs could not be justified.
fiscal year.



- 37 -
8. Use of lank Resources
a) aek Staff /Consultoat Inmte
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Proiect COVl.                        Bank/IDA Piscal Year
Pro- L/    1/
EY79    11     PYIO    Z1M   lYIi    FY83    PY84    FY85
Preappraisal      6.1    3.4             23.2     6.1
Appraisal                 5.7                    15.5
Negs/Admin.       0.3     0.6             1.1     4.1    7.9
Supervision                                               7.3     7.2     3.1
PCR Prep.
Other                                                     0.3     0.2
Totals       6.4     9.6      .0 0  24.3   25.7   15.4       7.4     3.1
IY86    PY87    FY88 l89    FY920  PY91               TOTALS
Preappraisal                                                              38 7
Appraisal                                                                 21.2
Negs/Admin.                                                               14 0
Supervision      12.3     7.0   10.4   19.0   12.1        0.8             79.1
PCR Prep.                                         2.8     2.1              4.9
Other             0.1    0.6                                               1.2
Totals      12.4     7.6    10.4   19.0    14.9      2.9            159.1
NOTESs
1/  Staff/consultant inputs shown above for FY89 and earlier were
charged to "Rural Water Supply" under the Bank's accounting system,
but, in fact, those inputs were used to prepare components for the
Second Manila Water Supply Project (Ln. 1615-PH), which included
preparation of a rural water supply program, and for the Second
Provincial Cities Water Supply Project (Cr. 920/Ln. 1710-PH), which
included rural water supply and a pilot rural sanitation component.



- 38 -
8. Banjf lank IS5otWc-
b) la Mission*
Other
Type of                                        Projects   Performance       Problem
MiJO;   _   D-tec_                Staff        Coverad      Ratin -          !nDs
Identify    04/30-05/19/81   Engineers (2)          0            __             __
Fin. Analyst
Planner
Prepare     07/12-31/81      Engineer               6            __             _
Fin. Analysts (2)
Appraisal   11/16-31/81      Engineer               0            --             --
Pin. Analyst
Post Apr.   02/01-12/82      Training Spec.         0            --             --
Post Apr.   06/17-28/82      Engineer               4            --             --
Loan Officer
Lawyer
Post Apr.      11/82         Enginears (3)          --           --             --
Training Spec.
SPN # 1     03/03-24/83       Fin. Analyst          3            1              --
Engineers (2)
SPN # 2     02/29-03/27/84   Fin. Analyst           3            1.        Proj. Mgmt.
Engineer                                     Procurement
Training Spec.
SPN 1 3     06/28-07/03/84   Engineer               1            n.ao      Proj. Mgmt.
Training
b/
SPN # 4     12/08-13/84       Training Spec.        --           n.a.      Training
SPN # 5     07/03-17/85       Engineer              0            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Avail Funds
Training
SPN t 6     11/25-12/10/85   Engineer                1           2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Mgmt. Spec.                                  Avail Funds
Training
Procurement
Accounts
Disbrsemnts
SPN # 7     06/02-23/86       Engineer               4           2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Fin. Analyst                                 Avail. Funds
Training Spec.                               Training
Procurement



- 39 -
8 (b) Bank Niusloo (continued)
Other
Type of                                         Projects   Performance       Problem
Mission    _   P     ...          Staff         Covered      Ratinas          TYpes
SPN t 8     11/05-16/86       Engineer               0            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Avail.Funds
Training
Diabrements
Sector Org.
SPN J9      03/15-29/87       Engineer               0            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Avail.Funds
Training
Diabraments
Sector Org.
SPN t 10    11/16-29/87       Engineer               2            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Fin. Analyst                                  Avail.Funds
Training
Disbrsments
Sector Org.
Oper./Maint
Audits
SPN # 11    05/02-09/88       Fin. Analyst           1            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Engineer                                      Avail.Funds
Training
SPN t 12    10/03-07/88       Fin. Analyst           2            2.        Proj. Mgmt.
Engineers (2)                                 Avail.Funds
Procurement
Oper./Maint
SPN t 13    02/08-03/03/89   Fin. Analyst            1            2.         Proj. Mgmt.
Engineer (2)                                  Procurement
Audits
Oper./Maint
SPN t 14    06/26-07/17/89   Fin. Analyst            1            1.         Proj. Mgmt.
Engineers (2)                                 Procurement
Training
Fin. Perf.
Audits
SPN t 15    09/25-10/16/89   Fin. Analyst             1           1.         Proj. Mgmt.
Engineers (2)                                 Training
Audits
Compliance



- 40 -
8 (b) BI. ]Ugsioo (continued)
Other                 */
Type of                                         Projects   Performance       Problem
Mil.n          DateL _            Staff        Covered       Ratings          Tvpo
SPN t 16    06/04-15/90       Engineers (2)          1            1.        Proj. Mgmt.
Training Spec.                                Training
Legal                                         Audits
Compliance
SPN 1 17    10/15-27/90       Fin. Analyst           1            1         Proj. Mgmt.
Engineers (2)                                 Financial
a/ Performanee Ratings:
1. - Problem Free or Minor Problems
2. - Moderate Problems
3. - Major Problem.
n.a. - Not available from report.
k/ Missions to the Philippines in 06/83, 08/83, 11/83, 10/84 and 12/84 for other
purposes, also spent brief periodt following up on matters related to this
project.



_ 41 -
Descritlion of the Proiectll
80.         The project is designed to assist the Borrower in implementing a
program of improving public health in rural areas through provision of safe
water supply and excretion disposal systems. The projoct consists of the
followings
Part A:
(i)    Coordination of rural water supply end sanitation activities
under the project.
(ii)   Installation of about 400 Level II Systems, including provision
of vehicles, equipment and materials.
Part 3:
(M)     Construction of about 9,700 Level I Systems comprising about
4,500 shallow wells and about 2,300 deep wells, and the rehabilitation of
about 2,900 existing wells, and source development for about 400 Level II
Systems, including provision of vehicles, equipment and materials.
(ii)    Construction and equipping of about 12 rural water supply
systems's maintenance workshops.
(iii)   Carrying out of research in testLng of handpumps, well screens
and other equipment required for water supply systems.
(iv)    Procurement of and training in the use of micro-computer
equipment.
(v)     Training in the design, constructlon, management, operation and
maintenance of water supply and sanitation systems.
(vi)    Construction of about 750,000 toilet units.
(vii)   Provision of chemicals for the disinfection of wells; and
provision of vehicles, equipment and materials for supervision of construction
under Part B (vi) and for health education.
(viii) Construction and performance monitoring of 12 waste
stabilization ponds.
Part C:
Preparation of solid waste management, flood control and drainage projects.
*                         *                         *
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987
it          Prom Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement dated October 28, 1982.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
DefLuLl ggg
Water SUDply Systems and Service Lovels:11
1.          Design criteria considored to be appropriate for rural water
supply systems wore developed by Philippine Government Agencies with
assistance from UNDP and the Bank as follows:
(a)   A Level I (or point source) system is generally a protected well
deep or shallow) with handpump, or a protected spring and outlet,
without a distribution system. It is generally suitable for rural
areas where houses are scattered, and the water source is situated
not more than 250 m from any user. On average, some 15 to 50
households can be supplied from a single source. For the Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project, about 9,700 wells (about
4,500 new shallow wells, 2,300 new deep wells and rehabilitation
of 2,900 existing wells) were proposed, each    serving an average
"of 25 households of about 6 persons.
(b)   A Level II (or communal faucet) system is generally intended for
rural areas where the houses are clustered close enough to justify
a simple piped distribution system with public faucets located not
more than 25 m from the furthest house. Generally, such systems
are designed to supply 100 to 150 households with 40-80 lped and
with one faucet per 4 to 6 households. For the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project, about 400 new Level II systems were
proposed, each to serve about 100 households of about 6 persons.
(c) A Level III (or individual house connection) system is generally
suitable for densely populated urban areas and is usually intended
to serve an average of about 600 households. The system comprises
a distribution network, house connections and some public faucets.
As given in par&. 1.13 of the Staff Appraisal Report, supplemented
by information from the Project Description (Annex 1).



