Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3866-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJE
August 25, 1982
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =           Pesos (F)
P 1.00                              US$0.120
P 1 million                         US$120,480
EL I billion                        US$120 million
US$1.00                             P 8.3
US$1 million            =           P 8,300,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm           =    millimeter                    =    0.04 inches
cm           =    centimeter                   =    0.39 inches
m            =    meter                        =    3.28 feet
km           =    kilometer                    =    0.62  miles
ha           =    hectare                      =    2.47 acres
cum          =    cubic meter                  =    264 US gallons
1            =    liter                        =    0.26 US gallons
lpcd         =    liters per capita per day   =    0.26 US gallons
per capita per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       =    Asian Development Bank
EC        =    Electric Cooperative
IDWSSD    =    International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade
LWUA      =    Local Water Utilities Administration
MHS            Ministry of Human Settlements
MLG       =    Ministry of Local Government
MOH       =    Ministry of Health
MWSS      =    Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
MPWH      =    Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEA       =    National Electrification Administration
NWRC      =    National Water Resources Council
PIRC      =    Project Implementation and Review Committee
RWDC      =    Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
RWA       =    Rural Waterworks Association
RWSA      =    Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association
USAID     =    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Government:  January 1 to December 31
RWDC : January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE SECTOR  .....          .. ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . .  .  1
A.  Current Situation   . . ..  .  .    .......    . . .           1
B.  Sector Organization ....  .  .     .    ........  .  .   .     3
C.  Sector Policies and Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
D.  Investment Programs...                       ....              8
E.  Bank Lending for the Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        9
II.   BORROWER, BENEFICIARIES AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES . . . . .        9
A. The Borrower.                                                   9
B.  The Beneficiaries and Implementing Agencies . . . . . .       10
III.  THE PROJECT .....  .       .  .    .. ..    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
A.  Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       13
B.  Description    . . . . . .       .. .     ..       .14
C.  Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
D.  Project Cost Estimates  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
E. Procurement          . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .      20
F.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       21
G.  Financing Plan  ....  .  .     .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
IV.   FINANCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .  .  ...   .      23
A.  RWDC's Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       23
B.  Cost Recovery for Rural Water Supply  . . . . . . . . .    23
C.  Cost Recovery for Rural Sanitation  . . . . . . . . . .       24
V.    JUSTIFICATION .....  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .    24
A.  Project Benefits  ....  .      .  .  .    . . . . . . . . .  .   .  24
B. Risks .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  27
C. Environmental Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       .  27
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .  . . . . . . . . .    27
The project was identified in April 1981 and appraised in November/December
1981 by A. Saravanapavan (Sanitary Engineer) and L.V. Smith (Consultant).
Messrs. C. Fernandez and A. Van Vugt (Financial Analysts) contributed to the
preparation of the appraisal report.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
TABLES
1.  Project Cost Estimates . . . . . .....  . . . . . . . .         29
2.  Sample Construction Costs ....    30
3.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements         . . . .31
4.  Allocation of Proceeds of Loan . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
5.  Physical Targets  - Rural Water Supply Program . . . . . .   33
6. Typical Operation and Maintenance Costs -
Level II Systems .... .                       ..34
7.  Internal Rate of Return Calculations . . . . . . . . . . .   35
ANNEXES
1.  Project Description  . . . . . . ..                  .36
2.  Consulting Services and Technical Assistance . . . . . . .   53
3. Monitoring Indicators ... . .60
4.  RWDC Income Statement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   61
5. RWDC Cash Flow Statement ..                                  . 62
6. RWDC Balance Sheet  . . .               . . .63
7.  Assumptions used in the Financial Projections for the RWDC   64
8.  Documents in Project File  . . . . . . . .         . .66
CHARTS
IBRD No.
23633 Organization Chart - RWDC   .  .  .  .  .    .   . . . . . .   68
23717 Drawing of Shallow Well With Handpump  . . . . . . . . .   69
23718 Drawing of Pour Flush Toilet . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   70
23683 Project Development Flow Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . .   71
23684 Project Implementation Activity Bar Chart  . . . . . . .  72
23634 Project Management Chart - MOH . . . . . . . . . . . . .   73
MAP
IBRD 16245 - Map of the Philippines



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Current Situation
1.01      The principal source of domestic water supply in the Philippines,
particularly in the rural areas, is groundwater which is generally of
acceptable quality and available throughout the country in sufficient
quantities. There are four major groundwater reservoirs with areas ranging
from 6,000 to 12,200 sq km which, when combined with other smaller reservoirs,
aggregates to about 50,000 sq km. In cities with large concentrations of
population, surface water is often utilized. There are over 400 principal
rivers with drainage areas ranging from 40 to 25,000 sq km and some 60 natural
lakes as well as numerous small streams. Average annual rainfall is about
300 cm. This rainfall is unevenly distributed with certain populated areas in
the northwest having dry seasons of about three to seven months. The
Philippines has a total land area of 300,000 sq km spread over some 7,100
islands of volcanic origin. About 95% of the land is contained in eleven of
the largest islands with two, Luzon and Mindanao, accounting for some
two-thirds of the total area. Nearly 65% of the country is either mountainous
or upland with mountain ranges dividing the islands into small watersheds (see
Map IBRD 16245).
1.02      A major contribution to water resources knowledge, relevant to the
development of rural water supply, was the completion in August 1981 of a
rapid assessment of water supply sources undertaken by the National Hydraulic
Research Center on behalf of the National Water Resources Council (NWRC). A
report has been prepared for each of the country's 73 Provinces (divided into
12 administrative regions) which analyses all available data and includes maps
indicating areas suitable for shallow wells or deep wells and also defines
areas which are likely to be difficult for groundwater development. Popula-
tion distributions and densities within each Province were also examined and
recommendations made as to the most suitable type of development to meet rural
water demands. These reports provide a valuable tool for the rural water
supply program.
1.03      A Government Task Force established to develop integrated national
water supply plans and programs estimates that as of 1980, of the total esti-
mated population of 49.4 million/I, about 21.4 million (43%) were served by
public water supply facilities i.e., 12.9 million (26%) by public wells, about
0.4 million (1%) by communal faucet systems and 8.1 million (16%) by municipal
works systems. Service in Metropolitan Manila covered some 82% of the 6.4
million population, other urban areas with a total population of 8.9 million
registered a 55% coverage whilst only 33% of the 34.1 million rural dwellers
in the country received a safe public supply. The unserved 67% low income
/1 This figure is based on a recent survey.



- 2 -
rural population of 22.8 million is the target group for the proposed project
which is part of a recently prepared national Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Master Plan. This group would be served with safe water almost
entirely from underground sources such as protected wells and springs. The
following table indicates the population presently covered by type of supply:
--- Public Water Supply Service ---        Other
Piped      including
Wells       Springs       systems    unserved        Total
Population  Population   Population  Population  Population
million  %  million  %   million  %  million  %  million  %
Urban Population
Metro Manila       0.1    2    -        -      5.1   80    1.2   18    6.4   100
Other Urban        1.2   14    0.3    3       3.4   38    4.0   45    8.9   100
Rural Population    2.8    8    5.1   15         3.4   10   22.8   67   34.1   100
Total           4.1    8    5.4   11    11.9   24   28.0   57   49.4   100
1.04      Diseases in which water and sanitation are implicated - gastro-
enteritis, intestinal parasites, dysentery and diarrhea - are next in
frequency to respiratory diseases which top the list of leading causes of
diseases in all parts of the country. The target group of 22.8 million in the
rural water supply program which at present largely relies on unprotected dug
wells and has poor environmental sanitation is victim to these diseases.
Malaria, which is water and drainage related, is a relatively serious problem
in the northern and southern extremes of the country. Schistosomiasis is
reported in 6 of the 12 regions. About 28% of the approximately 7 million
households in the country have unsanitary toilets and about 19%, primarily low
income families, have no toilets. Such unsanitary conditions create
environmental problems - water pollution, contamination of food, insect and
rodent infestation and disease. The Ministry of Health (MOH) has been
promoting the installation of simple household sanitary facilities for the
disposal of human excreta in the rural areas (see para. 1.09). MOH is
planning to intensify its program in connection with the United Nations
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD), with the
objective of providing all households with safe water and a sanitary method of
excreta disposal by 1990.
1.05      To sum up, in the rural areas, low-income families are traditionally
dependant on unsafe sources of water supply and poor sanitation facilities.
Similarly, in urban areas, while coverage of piped water supply systems has
improved appreciably over the last five years, the facilities have been
largely based on individual house connections with a few public faucets,
leaving the poor in the periphery of towns largely unserved. The result has
been the continuing and widespread incidence of waterborne or water-related
diseases, particularly in the countryside. The provision of safe water and
sanitary disposal of excreta, properly integrated with health education, thus
constitutes the single most important investment that could improve the health



- 3 -
and productivity of the rural population. Review and analysis of data and
estimates of morbidity and mortality show that the Philippines continues to
have a serious health problem with diseases related to inadequate water supply
and sanitation services. Reducing the incidence of these diseases requires a
subtantial improvement of rural water supply and sanitation service levels and
is the principal objective of the Government's planning for the sector.
B. Sector Organization
1.06      Principal Agencies-Water Supply.  As of 1980 the Philipppines had
1,531 cities and municipalities containing 39,107 barangays with a total
population of 49.4 million./l The institutional responsibilities for
providing water supplies is shared between the Metropolitan Waterworks and
Sewerage System (MWSS) for Metropolitan Manila, the Local Water Utilities
Administration (LWUA) for 688 cities and municipalities with population
greater than 20,000, many of which contain rural areas within their
boundaries; and the Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC) serving
815 cities and municipalities with populations below 20,000. RWDC is
responsible for promoting rural water supplies through the formation of Rural
Waterworks Associations (RWAs) which are village community organizations for
building, operating and maintaining village water supplies (see para. 1.11).
This type of sectoral organization is unique and is probably one of the best
of its kind in the developing world. Within this broad division of
responsibilities there are some overlapping functions between the principal
agencies. The following table shows the distribution of responsibilities
between the three principal institutions and the urban and rural areas:
MWSS          LWUA           RWDC            Total
Urban Areas
Barangays (No.)          1,940          3,305         1,201            6,446
Population (million)        6.4           7.4            1.5            15.3
Rural Areas
Barangays (No.)              38        19,631        12,992           32,661
Population (million)        0.1          24.0           10.0            34.1
Totals cities/
municipalities (No.)         28           688            815           1,531
Barangays (No.)             1,978        22,936         14,193          39,107
Population (million)          6.5          31.4           11.5             49.4
/1 A barangay is the smallest political unit. Each barangay has a Barangay
Council which plays an important role in the implementation of Government
programs. The Barangay Council is headed by a Barangay Captain who
participates in community activities.



-4-
1.07      As an example of the overlapping responsibilities it will be noted
that LWUA is responsible for 7.4 million urban and 24 million rural popula-
tion while RWDC covers 1.5 million urban and only 10 million rural popula-
tion./l This is because a city or municipality in the Philippines is equi-
valent to a county in the USA and often has a large rural population with
small core urban areas. Therefore LWUA has a larger rural population within
the 688 cities and municipalities (with populations greater than 20,000) in
its area of jurisdiction as compared with the rural population in the 815
cities and municipalities (with populations below 20,000) for which RWDC is
responsible. The Government is alert to this organizational problem and is
taking steps to reorganize the sector during the course of the proposed
project. The reorganization would aim at reducing overlapping functions
improving efficiency and expediting the carrying out of the national program
(para. 1.12).
1.08      Supportive Agencies-Water Supply.  In addition to the three princi-
pal agencies there are three ministries - the Ministry of Public Works and
Highways (MPWH), the Ministry of Local Government (MLG), and the Ministry of
Human Settlements (MHS) - and the National Electrification Administration
(NEA) supporting RWDC in the development of the rural water supply sector.
MPWH has two roles. Firstly, as the government ministry responsible for
MWSS and LWUA, it has a coordinating function and therefore prepares sectoral
plans (see para. 1.15). Secondly, the Government provides annual budgetary
allocations to MPWH to construct deep and shallow wells, carry out spring
developments and until recently build communal faucet schemes. MHS is the
government agency responsible for RWDC. MHS also carries out important
community development activities such as the formation of barangay water and
health brigades. MLG is training its Provincial Engineers, through a USAID-
funded Barangay Water Program (BWP) to develop local capability in about 55
provinces (soon to be extended to all provinces) for designing and construct-
ing rural water supply schemes. As of September 1981, BWP's program included
287 shallow wells, 24 communal faucet systems and 24 systems with house
connections. Finally, NEA assisted RWDC, through its Electric Cooperatives
(ECs), with two water supply pilot projects and presently acts as a collect-
ing agent for RWDC for those RWAs which purchase electricity from an EC.
NEA would continue to assist RWDC in future in loan billing and collection
in the areas where such cooperatives have been formed.
1.09      Principal Agencies-Sanitation.  MOH is responsible for rural sani-
tation, and has a successful toilet construction program for simple pit
privies and some pour flush toilets, averaging about 200,000 units per year,
being undertaken at the barangay level. MOH sanitary inspectors supervise
the fabrication of squat plates and water sealed toilet bowls and advise
upon the siting and installation of toilets by householders. MWSS and LWUA
are responsible for sewerage and sanitation within their respective areas
/1 A proportion of the rural population live on the fringes of urban areas
and are not presently served by LWUA.



of jurisdiction. MWSS has made a start in providing these services in
Metropolitan Manila, but because of the low ability to pay in the small
cities, LWUA has no immediate plans for sewerage and sanitation improvements.
1.10      Water quality surveillance, needed to ensure the quality of drink-
ing water, is a responsibility of MOH. MWSS and LWUA have laboratories and
carry out their own quality control.  Similar laboratory facilities are not
available for the rural systems and MOH has plans for expanding its presently
limited laboratory facilities with assistance from UNICEF. MPWH, which is
one of the implementing agencies assisting RWDC, is also planning to build
laboratories to ensure safe water supplies for the systems built by them.
This is an example of duplication in effort which the Government would be
reviewing as part of the reorganization of the rural water supply and sani-
tation sector (para. 1.12).
1.11      Organizational Improvements.  The Government has recently intro-
duced legislation for the RWAs to also undertake rural sanitation and be
called Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (RWSAs)./I RWDC's
principal function is to promote the formation of RWSAs, providing financ-
ing, technical assistance and training and implementing rural water and
sanitation projects with assistance from MPWH, MLG and MOH. An RWSA is a
community organization formed to build, operate and maintain rural water
supply and sanitation projects for which financial assistance is provided by
the Government (see para. 2.06). The availability of adequate supplies of
safe water, when combined with health education and disposal of excreta by
water sealed household toilets, would have a favorable impact on health,
personal hygiene and general domestic sanitation. The Government has
therefore through the formation of RWSAs made an important organizational
improvement by integrating the rural water supply and rural sanitation
programs at the barangay level.
1.12      RWDC, as the lead agency in the rural water sector is attempting
to coordinate the activities of the principal and supportive agencies.
However, most of the construction-oriented type agencies (MWSS, LWUA, MPWH)
are not yet fully sensitive to the priorities and special needs of the rural
areas. In addition to the anomalies of LWUA being responsible for servicing
a larger rural population than RWDC, and RWDC being responsible for servic-
ing about 10% of the urban population, there is often unnecessary duplica-
tion of effort, such as in water quality surveillance and the training
programs of these agencies. The Government recognizes the problem and has
recently established a high level committee to review the organization, the
roles of the various agencies in the sector and to make recommendations.
The Rural Water Supply Sector Review Committee's composition and terms of
reference are satisfactory and have been accepted by the Bank; the committee
would be reporting to the Prime Minister/Minister of Finance. The review
would be completed by April 30, 1983 and the recommendations agreed with the
Bank would be implemented by December 31, 1983.
/1 Future references in this report would be to RWSAs.



- 6-
C. Sector Policies and Programs
1.13       Service Levels.  In the areas of developing design and construction
manuals, training programs and procedures for working at the local level, RWDC
has done a great deal of preparatory work and made a start in the development
of policies and programs for the rural water supply sector. Design criteria
appropriate to rural systems have been developed with Bank and UNDP assistance
and used in the training on low cost designs aimed at providing three levels
of water service:
(a) Level I (or Point Source) is generally a protected well (deep or
shallow) with handpump, or a protected spring and outlet, without
a distribution system. It is generally suitable for rural areas
where houses are thinly scattered, the well sited at a distance
of not more than 250 metres from the furthest user. On average
some 15 to 50 households can be supplied from a single source at
an average cost of about $5 to $10 per person./I
(b) Level II (or Communal Faucet System) is generally intended for
rural areas where the houses are clustered densely enough to
justify a simple piped distribution system with public faucets
sited at not more than 25 meters from the furthest house. In
general, such systems are designed to supply an average of 100 to
150 households with 40-80 liters of water per capita per day and
with one faucet per 4-6 households. Costs, excluding source
development, average about $10 to $20 per person./2
(c) Level III (or Individual House Connection System) is generally
suitable for densely populated urban areas. Distribution
networks are provided, with individual house connections and some
public faucets, to serve an average of 600 households per system.
Costs of these systems vary depending upon economies of scale.
There are no Level III systems in the proposed project.
1.14      Financing and Cost Recovery.  Grants are provided for the construc-
tion of Level I water supply systems and loans for Levels II and III systems.
Water charges are set to cover operation and maintenance costs and debt
servicing.  In respect of sanitation, the Government provides toilet bowls
free of charge to the individual families who in turn install them with their
own resources under the guidance of trained sanitary inspectors (see also
paras. 4.04 and 4.05.)
/1 There are about 10,000 wells in the proposed project and it is assumed
that each well would serve an average of 25 households and each household
has a family size of six persons.
/2 There are 400 communal systems in the proposed project, each assumed to
serve a cluster of 100 households and each household has a family size of
six persons.



- 7 -
1.15      Government Plans for the Sector.  The Government has produced two
major plans for the sector. The first of these is the national "Integrated
Water Supply Program 1980-2000" dated July 1980; based upon IDWSSD targets
i.e. by 1990 all rural families would be provided with safe drinking water.
The second is the recently prepared "Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master
Plan". Both these plans are comprehensive and were prepared by Inter-agency
Committees chaired by MPWH. The first document sets out general policies
for the water supply sector and indicates short, intermediate and long-term
targets. The Rural Water Supply Master Plan's long range targets are that
by the year 1990 about 37% of the population would be served by piped systems
with public faucets and 29% by piped systems with house connections and 27%
through protected wells. By the year 2000 these percentages are expected to
be 52%, 34% and 7% respectively. These service targets are ambitious. In
the early years of the program, annual targets are unlikely to be achieved
given institutional and funding constraints. However, these targets provide
a useful framework within which short-term targets can be adjusted as imple-
mentation proceeds. Physical targets for the period up to 1990 are as
follows:
Immediate    -  By end 1984, all barangays in the country would have a
minimum of Level I service; all existing nonfunctional
public wells (as of 1981) would be rehabilitated,
replaced or repaired jointly by the Government and the
RWSAs; about 50% of rural towns and 10% of the rural
barangays would have Level II service; about 25% of the
rural towns would have Level III service.
Intermediate - By end 1986, around 30% of the rural barangays would
have Level II service; the incremental demand for
repair and rehabilitation of wells would be satisfied;
all clusters of population with 50 households or more,
would have a minimum of Level I service; and all
small towns would have a minimum of Level II service.
Long-range   -  By end 1990, around 50% of all rural barangays would
have a minimum of Level II service. By end 1995, all
rural towns would have Level III service. By end 2000,
70% of the clusters of households would have a minimum
of Level II service while 30% would have Level I
service.
1.16      The parallel Rural Sanitation Master Plan is based upon IDWSSD tar-
gets i.e. by 1990 all families would be provided with sanitary excreta dis-
posal facilities. In total it is estimated that during the period 1982-90,
some 1.5 million new facilities would have to be provided and 2.5 million
will have to be rehabilitated./l Of the total of 4 million new or rehabili-
tated units envisaged, it is estimated that approximately 1 million will be
built in urban fringe areas.
/1 The proposed project has a rural sanitation component which provides for
about 150,000 household toilets to be built each year (total 750,000) as
part of a five-year program.



- 8 -
1.17       Guided by past experience in project implementation in the sector
and the need for improving the sectoral organization, the Government intends
to make a start with a small and manageable Bank-assisted first phase rural
water and sanitation program chosen from the Master Plan to service the rural
areas with the greatest need. However, should the implementation of the
program proceed at a faster pace than envisaged, the Government could consider
advancing of a possible follow-on project.
D. Investment Programs in the Water Sector
1.18       Third Plan.  The sector strategy for water resources in the Govern-
ment's Third Plan (1978-82) was that: "priority will be given to areas with
greater population size and density, greater industrial, commercial and insti-
tutional concentration or where water supply can propel development". The
creation of RWDC in January 1980 and the publication of the Integrated Water
Supply Program of July 1980 by MPWH, together with the Government's subscrib-
ing to the IDWSSD goals caused a significant change in emphasis and some shift
in priority. The 1981 revised total Third Plan expenditure is about P 4.3
billion (as compared with the original provision of P 5.4 billion). If 1982
expenditure keeps to the previous proportional pattern, then only about one-
third of the program  would be achieved.  Some agencies have been more able
than others to reach their programmed level of expenditure. LWUA has been on
target, MPWH has, as of now, achieved 47% of its program, but MWSS has only
spent 27% of its programmed allocation. However, because MWSS is committed to
heavy expenditures in 1982, it is likely to utilize a substantial proportion
of its allocation. This apparently poor performance in the sector is mainly
due to initial implementation delays, insufficient counterpart funds and
unrealistically high program targets. It is estimated that expenditures in
the rural water supply sector would reach only about 25% of the program; per-
formance in the fourth plan is expected to improve as RWDC gains more experi-
ence in project implementation.
1.19       Fourth Plan (1983-87).  Government's plans are that 5% of GNP is
allocated to public infrastructure investment, and that a similar proportion
as in the Third Plan, estimated at about 0.8% of GNP, or about P 30 billion,
goes to water resources.  Water and irrigation agencies have estimated their
requirements at P 33.7 billion. In addition, an estimated P 300 million
is likely to be required for the Fourth Plan rural sanitation program under
the MOH, but this would appear under Health, rather than Water Resources, in
the Plan. On the basis of past experience in the speed of project implementa-
tion, this investment program is ambitious and is prompted by the agencies'
desire in the sector to achieve the IDWSSD targets to provide safe water and
sanitary excreta disposal facilities to all the population by 1990.  It should
be noted that the Government did take early steps within the sector to further
improve organization and management of MWSS and LWUA, create RWDC and also
prepare feasibility studies and detailed designs needed to implement the
planned program. Multi-lateral and bi-lateral assistance from Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB) and the Governments of Switzerland, Japan, Germany and USA is
also being drawn upon for the program.  Nonetheless, it is quite unlikely that
the absorptive capacities of the sector agencies would have improved to the
extent that the targetted investment would be achieved.



- 9-
E. Bank Lending for the Sector
1.20      A Bank loan of $23 million (Loan 1415-PH) made to the Government in
1977 for the First Provincial Cities Water Supply Project had components for
providing water supplies to six relatively large provincial cities and
feasibility studies and detailed designs for future water supply and sanita-
tion projects. A second Bank loan of $88 million (Loan 1615-PH) was made in
1978 to help improve and expand the Metropolitan Manila water supply system
and also finance detailed design and feasibility studies for water supply in
provincial cities and prepare the rural water supply program. The third Bank
loan/credit of $38 million (Loan/Credit 1710-PH; 920-PH) made in 1979 financed
water supply projects in some 50-60 small towns and prepared projects for some
150 towns; a fourth loan of $63 million (Loan 1814-PH) made in 1980 financed
sewerage and sanitation in Metropolitan Manila and technical assistance for
the preparation of future projects. The first two projects had significant
delays during the first two years caused partly by the time taken to prepare
detailed designs and award contracts, but recent progress has been satis-
factory. The other projects had relatively minor implementation problems at
the beginning and are now showing better progress. To avoid similar delays
in the proposed project the preparation of detailed designs is underway and
preliminary procurement action has been initiated (para. 3.18).
1.21      Despite the initial delays, the Bank's participation in the four
projects in the sector resulted in significant improvement in institution
building and management both in MWSS and LWUA. The Bank was also instrumental
through sector studies and UNDP-funded technical assistance projects in laying
the foundations which resulted in the creation of RWDC and has assisted all
three institutions in making technological and institutional advances. Bank-
financed urban and rural development projects are also providing water supply
and sanitation systems for low-income groups. The Bank's strategy in the
water supply and sanitation sector is to continue to support the Government's
investment program for improving watet supply, sewerage and sanitation facili-
ties and to provide technical assistance and training for institution building
and staff development. The Bank would also continue to support Government in
its efforts to improve the organization and management of the rural water
supply and sanitation sector, provide technical assistance for the preparation
of future projects, and support cofinancing wherever this is feasible. The
proposed project and future Bank loans in the sector are planned to be more of
the sector type so as to benefit from the local institutional capability
developed over the past five years; this capability would be further increased
by the additional institution-building support in the proposed project.
II. BORROWER, BENEFICIARIES AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. The Borrower
2.01      The Borrower will be the Republic of the Philippines.  The equiva-
lent of $5.0 million of loan proceeds would be relent by the Government to the
RWDC for constructing communal faucet systems. The equivalent of $14.7 mil-
lion and $12.3 million of the loan proceeds would be allocated by the Govern-
ment to MPWH to construct protected wells with pumps and for water source
development and to the MOH to develop rural sanitation schemes, respectively.
The Government would utilize about $3.0 million of the loan proceeds for
technical assistance to prepare future drainage, flood control and solid waste
disposal projects.



- 10 -
B. The Beneficiaries and Implementing Agencies
2.02      Rural Waterworks Development Corporation.  The Rural Waterworks
Development Corporation, created on January 12, 1980 under Executive Order
No. 577, is authorized and empowered to promote, encourage and assist rural
waterworks associations (RWAs) with the objective of making adequate water
supply services available to residents of the rural areas at the barangay
level, not served or covered by LWUA and MWSS (see Organization Chart of
RWDC - IBRD 23633)./1  It provides grants for point source development and
makes loans for the construction and acquisition of facilities and equipment
for supplying water services and for the restoration, improvement or expan-
sion of such facilities (para. 4.01). It is responsible for the development
of sectoral plans and programs for the rural water supply sector which is
coordinated with LWUA and MWSS insofar as their respective areas of responsi-
bility are concerned. The culmination of RWDC's efforts in sectoral plan-
ning is the national Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master Plan, prepared
for RWDC by an Interagency Master Plan Preparation Committee headed by MPWH;
the proposed project is a part of the first stage of the Master Plan. With
the support of MPWH, MLG, MOH and such other government agencies as the Board
of the Corporation may designate and with the direct participation of the
local governments through their waterworks committees and task forces, RWDC
provides institutional, technical and financial assistance for the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the water supply systems. RWDC has a
permanent staff of 91 persons which is considered adequate. No major staff
increase would be required during project implementation.
2.03      RWDC has been concentrating its activities towards self-sufficiency
at the local level through the strengthening of the local organizations and
the involvement of RWSAs in all phases of project activity. RWDC utilizes
the services of the Provincial Engineers Offices for design and construction
management of Level II schemes and requires active involvement of the commu-
nity to be served, culminating in the formation of a local RWSA which is
responsible for management and operation of the completed system. Prior to
commencing any local water supply activities at the barangay level, RWDC pro-
cedures require the establishment of policymaking, planning and technical
capabilities at the Provincial and Municipal/City levels. This includes:
Policy - Provincial Waterworks Committee/Municipal/City Waterworks Committee;
Planning-Provincial Waterworks Development Task Force/Municipal/City Water-
works Committee; Technical - Provincial and/or Municipal/City staff to support
Committees and Task Forces (see para. 2.11). Technical capability in water
resource planning, engineering design, feasibility studies, training, public
information, community organization, construction, accounting and waterworks
technology as required is achieved through RWDC initiated training programs.
2.04      The determination of water charges is the sole responsibility of
the RWDC in consultation with the RWSA and is not influenced by the Provincial
Waterworks Committees. MOH sanitary inspectors would provide assistance to
the RWSA in determining charges, as may be applicable, for sanitation works.
/1 Under recent legislation (para. 1.11) RWAs would undertake rural
sanitation.



- 11 -
2.05      As of March 31, 1982, RWDC's physical accomplishments were as fol-
lows: (a) it had ordered 31,000 locally made handpumps, for installation in
Level I supplies on drilled wells, of which 26,000 had been delivered and
22,000 installed; and (b) some 330 Level II systems had been completed in
selected RWSAs and 260 low-cost drilling rigs had been ordered for use in
Provincial Engineer's workshops. The handpumps are allocated to Provinces on
a pro rata basis by population and on-allocated by the Provinces on a similar
basis, at the barangay level./L
2.06      Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Associations.  Following upon dis-
cussions with local health and community development officials, interested
residents would approach the Barangay council to initiate a request for a
water supply and/or sanitation subproject. The request would be inserted
into the provincial planning process which establishes priorities and makes
prefeasibility studies./2 For Barangays where subprojects appear to be
feasible, based upon technical studies made at the local level (paras. 2.11
and 3.04) information is provided to the residents and a public meeting
(or meetings) held. If residents are positive about proceeding, the community
participates in a more detailed study which includes financial and technical
aspects of the various options available and selects the level of service
which is desired and which can be afforded. The community then passes a
resolution to form a RWSA and appoints a board of directors. The RWSA is duly
registered with RWDC and assumes the responsibility for further development
of the system. This includes further negotiation with RWDC on financing and
repayment schedules, the levying of adequate water charges, and on the details
of design, construction, operation and maintenance of the system. The RWSA is
also responsible for organizing the community input to construction.
2.07      Through the entire procedure, from the time the community decides to
form an RWSA to the time when the project is completed, and during the time
the facilities are in daily use the district provincial and municipality/city
water supply staff of the MLG and MPWH and sanitary inspectors of the MOH
provide professional and technical support. This includes expertise in
organization of the community, the completion of forms and reports, location
and siting of wells and toilet units, the supply of information and the train-
ing of all personnel who will be required to operate, maintain and keep simple
accounts to administer the system. Service will be provided by Government for
replacement parts and any major maintenance for water supply systems that is
beyond the capacity of the RWSA. Follow-up, monitoring and evaluation ensures
that the objectives of safe water supply, proper sanitation and community
self-reliance are met to the greatest extent possible. RWSAs will benefit
from pumps, pipes, toilet bowls and equipment provided by RWDC and MOH and
included in the proposed project. The RWSAs would also benefit from the com-
munity health education component of the project.
/1 Until the introduction of legislation changing RWAs to RWSAs the
emphasis was on water supply. About 6,000 RWAs had been registered as of
March 31, 1982.
/2 The Provincial Waterworks Committee for water supply subprojects (para.
2.11) and the Provincial Sanitation Committee for sanitation subprojects
(para. 3.14).



- 12 -
2.08      The Ministry of Health.  MOH is responsible for promoting safe water
supplies, approving the site of water sources, exercising surveillance of
water quality and for rural sanitation. A network of regional laboratories
and a central laboratory with technicians is used to carry out a water quality
surveillance program that requires periodic bacteriological and chemical
examinations of all water supply sources. Like the MPWH, its operational and
capital expenditures come from its share of the annual budget allocated by the
Government (see para. 2.10). MOH has a Health Education Division staffed with
14 health educators and three administrators to disseminate information on
safe drinking water and good environmental sanitation. A production unit for
information, education and communication materials is being staffed and
equipped. The 12 regions have two health educators each; one for delivery of'
services and the other for training. This staff is inadequate for the large
scale training of rural health workers and the rural community health educa-
tion program envisaged in the proposed project. Furthermore, the salaries,
travel and per diem paid to health workers are inadequate, causing under-
utilization of staff potential and health extension work suffering because of
infrequent field visits./l Many of the field staff do not have motorcycles and
have to rely upon an inadequate public transport system which does not service
remote communities. Senior supervisory staff have official vehicles that are
not provided with adequate fuel supplies, resulting in poor supervision of the
work of the field staff. MOH will benefit from the incremental administra-
tion, training and health education activities in the proposed project (para.
3.09).
2.09      Ministry of Public Works and Highways.  MPWH activities range from
the construction and rehabilitation of deep and shallow wells for Level I
services to the provision of source facilities of Level II and III systems in
rural and urban areas. The MPWH program has been integrated within the over-
all RWDC program and has the same criteria. In the execution of its program
MPWa has the advantages of its regional and district structure. In each
regional and district office there is a section in charge of water supply.
Project implementation is undertaken utilizing either force account labor,
contractors or village labor provided as a contribution to project costs.
MPWH will benefit from drilling rigs and related equipment such as pipes and
pumps for source development and research activities in the proposed project.
2.10      Operation and maintenance funds have been available to MPWH under
the General Appropriations Act to support village inputs as grants, but with
the formal establishment of RWSAs and the introduction of a firmer policy of
self-reliance these costs would only cover replacement parts and major main-
tenance which is beyond the capacity of the local RWSAs. There is a provision
in the project for the construction and equipment of maintenance workshops to
carry out monitoring and major maintenance on demand.
2.11      The Ministry of Local Government.  The MLG Barangay Water Program
(BWP), evolved in 1977 from a USAID-funded Provincial Development Assistance
Project, has the objective of strengthening planning and implementation
/1 The health workers include rural health nurses and midwives, school
health workers, sanitary inspectors, sanitary engineers and medical
doctors at the municipal, provincial and government levels in
supervisory positions.



- 13 -
capacity through staff development at the Provincial level. Provincial
Development Staff attached to Provincial Governor's offices include a water
resources analyst who prepares a water resource inventory which is used as a
basis for project identification. Through the Provincial Waterworks Commit-
tee and the Provincial Waterworks Development Task Force, a Five-Year Water
Resources Development Plan was prepared as part of an overall provincial
capital investment program. The Five-Year Water Resources Development Plan
was integrated into the national Master Plan for Rural Water Supply and also
translated into annual implementation plans which are coordinated by RWDC
and executed by: (a) the MPWH Provincial or District Offices for the con-
struction and rehabilitation of Level I systems and development of sources
for Level II systems described in para. 1.13; (b) the MLG Provincial
Engineer's Offices which contain units for designing and constructing Level
II systems; and (c) MWSS and LWUA in rural barangays lying within their areas
of responsibility. The Provincial Engineer's Offices would benefit from
the detailed designs of most of the 400 Level II systems in the proposed
project.
2.12      MWSS and LWUA.  MWSS and LWUA are responsible for the rural com-
munities within their areas of responsibility. They would utilize their
existing trained units designated for rural water supply and sanitation to
implement those systems allocated to them in their respective areas of
responsibility, through RWSAs. The activities of these institutions would be
coordinated by RWDC. LWUA would also work closely with MOH in the construc-
tion and monitoring of the 12 stabilization ponds in the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The proposed project's major objectives are the development and
mobilization of local resources for the water and sanitation sector, and the
organization and strengthening of the local institutions responsible for the
sector. These objectives would be achieved through the financing of part of
the Government's rural water supply and sanitation program, with priority
given to the areas of greatest need. The project is part of the first stage
investment program and has flexibility for the Government to adjust targets
based upon early experience. Under the project the efforts of the several
agencies involved in the sector would be better coordinated and channelled
towards the single task of improving public health in the rural areas.
3.02      The project supports the objectives of the Rural Water Supply 1Master
Plan and will be implemented throughout the Philippines, with priorities given
to 19 provinces which have inadequate rural water supplies. The project
concept is to support a part of the first stage (1983-87) of this program and
be a catalyst so that local capability could be mobilized and institutions
developed for the efficient implementation of as much as possible of the full
program.  Similarly the project supports a part of the first stage (1983-87)
of the Rural Sanitation Master Plan which aims at providing most rural
households in the country with sanitary excreta disposal facilities by 1990.
The project also has provision for training, administration and health
education, technical assistance for research and project implementation and
for the preparation of future projects in the water and wastes sector.



- 14 -
3.03       While previous Bank operations in the sector concentrated upon
cities and small towns, the proposed project would go deep into the country-
side focussing upon small clusters of households far from the main arteries.
The project is designed to offer a better balance in opportunities, between
the urban and rural areas, through the improvement of key elements of social
infrastructure which support the country's agriculture-based economy. Last
but not least, the project would not only organize and strengthen the rural
water supply and sanitation sector institutions but would also help develop
local community participation thereby promoting higher standards of hygiene,
personal cleanliness and public health.
B. Description
3.04       Rural Water Supply.  The proposed project provides for the con-
struction of about 4,500 shallow wells and 2,300 deep wells (Level I systems)
for unserved communities and the rehabilitation of 2,900 existing wells
(which are not functioning at present) to restore service to these communi-
ties. All of these wells would be equipped with handpumps or electric pumps
as appropriate to serve clusters of about 50 and 150 households. The proposed
project provides well casings and screens, drilling equipment, pumps for these
systems and vehicles for project implementation. The project also includes
the construction of 400 Level II communal faucet systems. A typical protected
shallow well installation is shown in IBRD Drawing 23717 and criteria for well
construction are in the project description at Annex 1.
3.05       To ensure the monitoring and the satisfactory and continued opera-
tion of the rural water systems to be constructed under the proposed project
MPWH will establish in its regional and district offices, 12 workshops to
carry out major maintenance. The construction and equipment of these work-
shops is included in the proposed project. Agreement was reached with Govern-
ment at negotiations that these workshops would be organized and adequately
staffed and funded to carry out the major maintenance of the water supply
systems constructed under the project.
3.06       Rural Sanitation.  The proposed project provides for the procurement
and installation of about 150,000 toilet units per year through 1987. The
first phase of procurement of toilet bowls numbers about 350,000 manufactured
out of fiberglass, PVC and plastic materials. A typical water sealed pour
flush toilet is shown in IBRD Drawing 23718. MOH would construct waste
stabilization ponds in 12 communities, one in each region with the objective
of introducing low cost safe disposal of human wastes. MOH would also make a
start in the disinfection of public wells with chlorine procured through the
proposed project. The RWSAs would gradually take over this activity as the
rural communities, through the health education programs, get an understanding
of the need to protect the safety of drinking water at source.  Criteria for
these sanitation activities are in the project description at Annex 1.
3.07       Research in Rural Water Supply and Sanitation.  In rural water
supply, MPWH and RWDC would test well screens and handpumps. Suitable vehi-
cles are included in the project for this research and for operating and
maintaining the stabilization ponds during the project period, including the
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the ponds and collecting
pertinent data on crop irrigation with pond effluents.



- 15 -
3.08      Training, Administration and Health Education.  Success in the rural
water supply and sanitation activities is greatly dependent on community
participation, and the health education component in the project under MOH
administration and carried out by specially trained MOH staff, would play a
very important role in community preparation. Small group meetings, such as
of barangay officials, key barangay people, religious groups, civic organiza-
tions, cultural groups, parents and teachers associations, mothers' classes
and other women's organizations, school children, etc., would be held by
trained sanitary inspectors and other rural health workers to underscore the
importance of proper excreta disposal and safe drinking water. In turn, these
groups would explain and motivate the less educated members of the community
for participation in the program. This would be supplemented with the
dissemination of educational materials to schools, public posters and radio
broadcasts.
3.09      To carry out the health education and toilet construction programs
MOH would incur incremental administrative costs in temporary staff for
supervision and training, incremental travelling and per diem costs for
health education and supervision of toilet construction, incentive payments
to poorly paid existing staff, information, education, communication and
demonstration materials required for the health education and training pro-
grams and vehicles and fuel for project supervision, training and health edu-
cation activities; these incremental costs are included in the project. The
health education programs include the training of regional, provincial and
rural health workers who in turn would carry out the training of field health
workers and the health education of communities at the barangay level.
Details are at Annex 1. RWDC has prepared a training program which includes
the training of RWSAs in routine operation and minor maintenance and overseas
training of selected MOH, MPWH, MLG and RWDC staff in areas of low cost design
of rural water and sanitation systems. The proposed project assists MOH and
RWDC in carrying out these training programs.
3.10      Consulting Services.  Most of the engineering for the simple rural
water systems will be carried out by MPWH and MLG staff supported by local
consultants as needed. Consultants would participate in special areas such as
hydrology, research activities, assisting with project review and monitoring
and in the periodic review of the criteria in the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Master Plan. Consultants would also be appointed to assist RWDC,
MPWH and MOH to speed up financial reporting, including the procurement and
use of micro-computer equipment for making detailed designs and financial
projections and in training. An amount of $960,000 has been provided in the
project to cover the costs of about 55 man-months of foreign consultants and
125 man-months of local consultants for these purposes. Research, development
and monitoring (para. 3.07) is estimated at $90,000 for which 5 man-months of
foreign consultants and about 12 man-months of local consultants have been
provided. Details are at Annex 2.
3.11      MPWH under an ongoing project is updating the Manila Drainage and
Flood Control Master Plan. This is expected to be substantially completed
by January 1983 and additional engineering services are required to make



- 16 -
soils investigations, land surveys, hydrological studies and model tests, and
prepare detailed designs and bid documents. Six areas have been identified
in the city which have serious drainage and flooding problems. These are
Malabon, Canta, Taytay, San Mateo, Talayan and San Juan covering some
1,600 ha. Details are at Annex 2. An amount of $3.4 million has been
included in the project for consulting services which includes $0.3 million
for the soils investigations and model tests. The estimated requirements
are: 84 foreign and 200 local man-months supported by MPWH engineering staff.
3.12       The ongoing solid wastes management study for Manila, being under-
taken by the Government, is expected to be completed in November 1982. Pro-
gress made so far indicates that a satisfactory least-cost alternative has
been identified utilizing disposal through landfills, with some composting
and incineration. An amount of $2.2 million has been included in the project
for consulting services for detailed design which includes $0.2 million for
groundwater studies in proposed landfill areas to control contamination by
leachate. The estimated requirements for consulting services and financial
and institutional consultants are: 55 foreign and 200 local man-months.
C. Implementation Arrangements
3.13      Water Supply.  RWDC has also made satisfactory arrangements for
project implementation. The project development and implementation process
is shown in IBRD Chart No. 23683. MPWH, which will have the responsibility
for the implementation of Level I systems and source development of Level II
systems has created a project management office. The organization and staff-
ing arrangements of this office have been reviewed and are satisfactory.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MPWH would staff this office
by not later than March 31, 1983.  It was also agreed during negotiations
that a senior RWDC official with experience and qualifications acceptable to
the Bank would be designated to be responsible for the construction of the
Level II systems and jointly with RWDC's General Manager for the coordina-
tion of the water supply and sanitation activities under the project.
3.14       Sanitation.  MOH as the lead government agency for the management
of sanitation has created sanitation committees comprising the lead agencies
(MPWH, MLG, MWSS, LWUA) at all levels of Government including the Provincial,
Municipal and Barangay levels. MOH has also created a project management
office which would be responsible for implementing the sanitation component
(Organization Chart IBRD 23634). The organization of this office has been
reviewed by the Bank and is satisfactory, the implementation arrangements
being similar to those followed under MOH's ongoing toilet construction pro-
gram. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the staffing of this
office would be completed by not later than March 31, 1983.  The Provincial
Health Offices would, under the guidance of the project management office,
carry out the health education, training and toilet construction activities
in the sanitation component, through the assistance of some 60 sanitary
engineers, 3,000 sanitary inspectors, 4,500 municipal health officers and
about 8,000 public health nurses using the well established rural health



- 17 -
delivery organization. MOH sanitary inspectors would carry out feasibility
studies and recommend the provision of toilet bowls free of charge to bene-
ficiary households that have agreed to participate in the program. The
individual households are in turn responsible for carrying out the necessary
construction (pit and enclosure) and installation through self-help under the
guidance of the sanitary inspectors.
3.15      Pilot Scheme.  In an attempt to further maximize the health
benefits of the project, accelerate project implementation and reduce
administrative and supervision costs, a pilot scheme integrating the rural
water supply and sanitation construction would be undertaken during the
early stages of project implementation.  In such a pilot scheme, expected to
comprise about 100 villages mainly with Level I systems, each village would
be treated as a unit. The facilities to be built under contract would be
the water supply system and the basic core of the toilet unit - the toilet
bowl, supports and underground structure - vault or pit. The householder
would complete the installation by grading the site and erecting the
shelter. The RWDC would have a single account for the village and the RWSA
would have subaccounts. Based upon the results of the pilot scheme, new
concepts would be implemented as appropriate.
3.16      Maintenance Arrangements.  The project's design includes two levels
of maintenance for the capital equipment to be financed under the project.
First, routine preventive maintenance would be undertaken by villagers trained
in hand-pump installations; every effort being made to ensure that the wells
are properly constructed, the well screens and pumps are of good design and
are correctly installed (para. 3.07). Second, breakdown maintenance which
requires special equipment would be carried out by MPWH field offices with
assistance from the needy RWSA. The 12 regional maintenance workshops in the
project (para. 3.05) provided for major maintenance would complement existing
MPWH facilities.
3.17      Project Implementation and Review Committee.  A Project Implemen-
tation and Review Committee (PIRC) has been established and its staffing
would be completed by March 31, 1983. PIRC is chaired by the Deputy
Minister of MPWH and would include as members, MOH's Assistant Minister and
RWDC's General Manager and would be assisted by a technical secretariat.
According to PIRC's terms of reference, which have been reviewed by the Bank
and found to be acceptable, PIRC's responsibilities would include monitoring
project performance, overall coordination of the project's implementation
activities and verifying disbursement claims/Statements of Expenditure
before submission to the &ank. PIRC would be initially guided by the
priorities and design criteria in the Master Plan and employ consultants to
assist in the reviews. An important aspect of PIRC's work would be to review
the progress on the pilot scheme with integrated water supply and sanitation
components and consider extending the scheme with improvements, for
implementation on a larger scale. PIRC would also provide information and
work closely with the review and periodical updating of the Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Master Plan.



- 18 -
3.18       Status of Project Implementation.  Typical designs, specifications
and bid documents have been prepared by RWDC and are currently in use by
MPWH's Regional and District Offices and the Provincial Engineers Offices.
Manuals for design, construction, operation, maintenance and accounting for
the rural water systems have also been prepared and are in use. All these
have been reviewed and are satisfactory. A large part of this work was done
by consultants financed under Loan 1710-PH and a UNDP-funded project assisted
with the development of low cost designs. RWDC has used all of this material
in its training programs. MPWH has advertised in the Development Forum
Magazine all pipe fittings, drilling rigs, etc. required for the Rural Water
Supply component. Bid evaluation is now under way. MOH has also advertised
for prequalification of bidders for the fibreglass/plastic toilet bowls,
vehicles and chlorine for the rural sanitation program. RWDC has confirmed
that 200 of the 400 Level II communal faucet systems have been designed by the
Provincial Engineers Offices and all 400 designs would be completed by early
1983. iMPWH also confirms that the first year work program for the Level I
systems has been prepared along with the tentative program for the second
year. MOH reports a similar position in regard to the toilet construction
program. It would, therefore, be reasonable to predict that by the time the
loan becomes effective, around December 1982, the project would be implemented
without delay. The project includes the formation in each year of about 1,500
RWSAs, about 2 per province per month - an achievable target. The
implementation schedule is shown in IBRD Chart No. 23684; monitoring
indicators are at Annex 3.
D. Project Cost Estimates
3.19       Total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is estimated to be
$57.9 million, of which about 43% is the foreign exchange component. The
project cost includes an estimated $27.3 million for rural water supply,
$25.0 million for sanitation and $5.6 million for technical assistance. The
estimates have been made to a baseline of July 1982, to which were added
physical contingencies of 10%. Price contingencies were calculated as
follows:  10% for 1982 and 8% thereafter for local costs; and 8% for 1982 and
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7%. for 1985 and 6% for 1986 for foreign costs. Foreign
consultants' costs, including fees, salaries, travel and subsistence are
estimated at about $11,800 per man-month. Local consultants' costs are about
$2,500 per man-month. The detailed cost estimates are at Table 1 and sample
costs of the different types of construction are shown at Table 2. The
summary of project cost estimates is given in the next page.
3.20       The sanitation component in the project cost estimates includes the
incremental training and administration costs essential for health education
and project implementation. The incremental costs on administration and
training during the project period would be P 116.7 million as follows:
temporary staff P 1.1 million, incentive pay 3P 20.2 million,
travelling/per diem P 54.9 million, fuel and transportation P 11.3
million, training, health, education, supplies and demonstration materials
P 29.2 million.  Details are given in Annex 1.  Given the need for ensuring



- 19 -
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    as % of
----Pesos million---- ----US$ million -----           Total
Rural Water Supply
Water supply systems               49.5    79.4   128.9        5.9      9.6    15.5        62
Equipment and vehicles              -       23.2    23.2       -        2.8      2.8      100
Maintenance facilities              1.2      0.9      2.1      0.2      0.1      0.3       33
Engineering                         4.8      3.7      8.5      0.6      0.4      1.0       40
Training                            7.0      2.8      9.8      0.8      0.4      1.2       33
Base Cost (mid-
1982 prices)                62.5   110.0   172.5        7.5    13.3    20.8         64
Rural Sanitation
Sanitary Units                      8.9    22.7    31.6        1.1      2.7     3.8       71
Water quality surveillance          -        3.7      3.7      -        0.5      0.5      100
Stabilization ponds                 2.4      2.1      4.5      0.3      0.2     0.5       40
Vehicles                            -        7.6      7.6      -        0.9      0.9     100
Training and administration    116.6         -      116.6    14.0       -       14.0        0
Base Cost (mid-
1982 prices)               127.9    36.1   164.0    15.4         4.3    19.7        22
Contingencies
Physical                           19.0    14.6    33.6        2.3      1.8     4.1       44
Price                              36.4    27.8    64.2        4.4      3.3     7.7       43
Total Cost                    245.8   188.5   434.3    29.6    22.7    52.3           43
Technical Assistance for the
Preparation of Future Projects
Drainage & solid waste
disposal                         29.7    16.6    46.3        3.6     2.0      5.6       36
Total Project Cost           275.5   205.1   480.6    33.2    24.7    57.9            43
Front-end fee on Bank Loan            -        4.1      4.1      -        0.5      0.5      100
Total Financing
Required                   275.5   209.2   484.7    33.2    25.2    58.4            43



- 20 -.
that the rural communities have to be educated in the importance of safe
drinking water and in building the sanitary toilets and then to using them,
this is a reasonable cost (para. 5.07). MOH in the recent past has, because
of budget constraints, incurred relatively modest expenditures on field
activities for its staff - in 1981 the total expenditures for travel/per diem
and fuel was only P 128,000. The annual nonincremental costs on salaries
and wages for all staff directly involved in rural sanitation is estimated at
P 36 million and the total nonincremental costs for the project period would
be about P55 million. The project cost estimates do not include any
nonincremental costs.
E. Procurement
3.21      Equipment and materials, vehicles and toilet bowls needed for the
project totalling about $16.5 million are suitable for ICB and will be
procured according to the Bank's guidelines. Though some would be
manufactured abroad it is likely that domestic producers of fiberglass toilet
bowls may win the bid for this item. Eligible domestic bidders would have 15%
preference under ICB procurement.  In subsequent phases of the program, other
methods of procurement may become appropriate; for example, having the private
sector become interested not only in producing these units but also in their
marketing by small shopkeepers. This provides an opportunity during project
execution to test procurement and institutional arrangements with the
objective of seeking the least cost and most efficient option, as the rural
toilet construction program is implemented. Specialized micro-computer
equipment with a total cost of about $20,000 and services for training in the
use of the equipment in detailed design and making financial projections would
be procured through inviting quotations from at least three independent manu-
facturers or suppliers. Civil works for the construction of 12 regional
maintenance workshops, 12 stabilization ponds, 10,000 wells, 750,000 toilet
units and 400 Level II water supply systems would be procured through small
local contracts through local competitive procedures, which are satisfactory
to the Bank, or force account or voluntary labor. These contracts for civil
works or equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 would be subject to
random post-review after contract award. Since most of these works are in
remote areas scattered throughout the country it is unlikely that they would
be of interest to foreign bidders.  All consulting services, except those for
preliminary and detailed engineering of the 400 small water supply systems
which would be done by in-house staff assisted by local consultants, will be
procured on the basis of Bank guidelines.
3.22      The equipment and materials for water supply systems and toilet
units would be allocated to each group of subprojects on the basis of recom-
mendations made by the PIRC. PIRC would also make arrangements for the
execution of the civil works and other services through RWDC and MOH. RWDC
would enter into appropriate agreements with MPWH and MLG for the civil works
in the construction of Level I systems, the source development of Level II
systems and the maintenance workshops. MOH would similarly enter into
appropriate agreements with RWSAs (through RWDC) for the construction of the
toilet units and make arrangements with its Regional Health Offices for the
construction, operation and monitoring of the stabilization ponds. PIRC's



- 21 -
decisions would be reviewed periodically by the Bank. With the exception of
special items such as training, design and construction of stabilization
ponds, research and development, Bank reviews would be otherwise limited to
the review of the arrangements for project execution, agreement on design and
construction criteria and spot-checking of designs and completed work during
normal supervision missions. PIRC will have RWDC and MOH prepare statements,
including maps, built up from reports at the Barangay level of completed
units and verified by the Provincial Water Works Committees and Provincial
Health Offices. Physical targets are at Table 5. Supervision missions would
carry out field checks of PIRC statements and of statements of expenditure,
audit reports, RWDC's financial statements and MOH's expenditures in training
and administration.
F. Disbursements
3.23      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against:
(a) Equipment and Materials - for equipment, materials, vehicles, and toilet
bowls procured through ICB, 100% of foreign, 100% of local expenditures, or
65% of expenditures for directly imported, locally manufactured and locally
procured, respectively; (b) Civil Works-statements of expenditure (SOEs)
based upon agreed unit costs to complete facilities of various kinds; (c)
Consulting Services - 100% of total expenditures; and (d) Training 100% for
foreign training based on training program; and 30% for local training based
upon SOEs and training program. The disbursement schedule is at Table 3; it
follows in the first four years the countrywide disbursement profile for the
water supply and sewerage sector in the Philippines. In the fifth year it
is assumed that disbursement performance would have improved somewhat and
that the project would be completed in five years rather than five years and
six months as is shown in the disbursement profile. All disbursement claims
would be fully documented except for those related to civil works and local
training for which SOEs verified by the PIRC would be provided.  The closing
date for the proposed loan is December 31, 1987. Details of allocations are
at Table 4.
3.24      Accounts and Audit.  All of the principal institutions, i.e. MOH,
MPWH and RWDC have adequate accounting and internal control systems for the
recording and reporting of project-related expenditures, including SOEs,
from the time project implementation commences. MOH and MPWH are presently
doing this on other Bank projects and have already made preparations for
applying the established procedures to the proposed project. MOH would keep
separate accounts of the incremental expenditures incurred for administration
and training components in the project. RWDC is working closely with NEA to
adopt the system currently in use by NEA in Bank financed rural electrifica-
tion projects. Improvements are possible in speeding up processing - this
would be done by financial management consultants during project implementa-
tion. The project accounts of these institutions would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.01). The auditors
would be requested to make spot checks of works completed and accounted for
by SOEs.  In addition, it was agreed during negotiations that documents in
support of SOEs would be retained one year after the Closing Date and
separate opinions would be given by the independent auditors confirming that
funds withdrawn under SOEs have been used for the purposes intended.



- 22 -
G. Financing Plan
3.25      The financing plan is as follows:
Pesos       US$ 
--- million ---
Use of Funds
Rural Water Supply           226.9        27.3        47
Rural Sanitation             207.4        25.0        43
Technical Assistance          46.3         5.6         9
480.6        57.9        99
Front-end fee                  4.1         0.5         1
Total Uses                 484.7        58.4       100
Sources of Funds
World Bank                   294.6        35.5        61
Government                   173.5        20.9        36
Users contributions           16.6         2.0         3
Total Sources              484.7        58.4       100
3.26      The Bank loan to the Government in the amount of $35.5 million,
inclusive of $0.5 million capitalized front-end fee, would be for a term of
20 years including five years grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a. The
Government would allocate $12.3 million to MOH for construction of sanitation
works, and provide a total of $19.7 million for the construction of rural
water supply works. Of the latter, about $14.7 million would be allocated to
MPWH for the construction of Level I systems, water source development,
engineering and training, and about $5.0 million would be a loan to RWDC for
the construction and engineering of Level II systems. The Government's
onlending to RWDC would be at a rate of 4% and be for a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace. About $3.0 million would be utilized by the
Government for the preparation of future projects. The loan would finance
about 61% of the total project cost; this would cover the foreign exchange
cost and about 30% of the local cost. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
3.27      The total funds needed for the water supply and sanitation
components of the project is P 434.3 million. Annual construction budgets
have been forecast for each respective year in the 1982-1986 period as
follows:  P 33 million, P 130 million, P 113 million, P 93 million,
and P 65 million.



- 23 -
IV. FINANCE
A. RWDC's Financial Performance
4.01      The authorized capital stock of RWDC is P 1.0 billion in ten
million shares of P 100 each to be subscribed by the Government as required.
An additional annual appropriation of up to P 20 million is authorized as
grants for technical assistance and institutional development of RWDC.
Audited financial statements for the first period of operations, i.e., the
last ten months of 1980, show that RWDC received an initial equity
contribution from the Government of P 12 million; this has since been
increased to P 39 million. Currently, the capital subscription by the
Government to RWDC is being used for capital and recurrent purposes. A
commercial accounting system is in use. Although a comparatively new
organization, RWDC had by the end of 1980 a staff establishment of 91
including 25 finance staff, and is operating in a businesslike manner.
Auditing is carried out by the Government Commission on Audit. The audit
certificate was issued within four months of the end of the financial year.
RWDC has an adequate accounting and internal control system, but some
improvements would be made during project implementation. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that RWDC will furnish to the Bank an audit
report prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each financial year.
4.02      The only source of income for RWDC is from loans made to RWSAs for
Level II and III schemes on which it can charge interest. Loan repayments
would be collected from RWSAs (along with electricity charges) on behalf of
RWDC by ECs.  It is assumed that the principal of all loans would be repaid,
and that initially about 10% of all interest due would be uncollectable. The
ECs would receive a collection fee of 10% on interest collected on behalf of
RWDC. RWDC has a manual for the agency contracts between itself and the ECs.
There are 123 ECs throughout the Philippines. RWDC would monitor and control
the loan collections from RWSAs by ECs. An accounting manual, including a
collection system has been designed for the RWSAs by RWDC. These arrangements
would be reviewed and changed as needed.
4.03       RWDC estimates its recurrent expenditure at the end of its organi-
zational buildup phase, i.e., by about 1986, to be P 10 million per annum
and that to break even would require Level II and III loans of P 250 mil-
lion; it aims at achieving this by 1988. The Government would not need to
provide further recurrent grants for institutional development beyond 1985.
Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for RWDC for each
year in the period 1980 to 1990 are shown in Annexes 4, 5 and 6. Assumptions
used in the financial projections are shown in Annex 7.
B. Cost Recovery for Rural Water Supply
4.04      Up to 90% of financial assistance for Level I water supply schemes
will be in the form of a grant from the Government; and in the case of Level
II schemes the financial assistance will be in the form of a loan from RWDC



- 24 -
to RWSAs for up to 90% of project cost.  For projects now being undertaken,
the beneficiaries provide at least 10% of the cost. This practice would
continue in the proposed project. The loans by RWDC to RWSAs for Level II
schemes will be for 20 years at 4%5 interest per annum with one year's grace on
amortization. The need for a low interest rate at this stage is acceptable
because of the low repayment capacity of the beneficiaries who are mainly low
income rural families, and to support the Government's objective of providing
basic needs - safe drinking water and proper sanitation - at affordable costs.
This interest rate is subsidized; however, it represents a minor deviation
from the Government's overall interest rate policy which calls for a positive
interest rate for all onlendings to commercial entities. On average, the
initial monthly charges on the beneficiaries have been set at P 1.00 for
Level I and P 7.00 for Level II schemes. These charges are set to provide
adequate cash for operations and maintenance in all cases, and will cover debt
service charges where necessary. Typical operation and maintenance costs of
four RWSAs with Level II water supply schemes are shown at Table 6. Agreement
was obtained during negotiations that RWDC would cause: (a) water charges to
be set at a level which would cover operating and maintenance costs, and any
debt service charges; (b) water charges to be reviewed annually in each
November and that any necessary tariff increases disclosed by this review be
implemented in January of the following year; and (c) all RWSAs receiving
loans from RWDC to be audited and that a report on these audits and on the
review of the adequacy of water charges be made available for review by the
Bank within six months of the end of the year.
C. Cost Recovery for Rural Sanitation
4.05       No cost recovery from beneficiaries is proposed for the sanitation
component in order to encourage all families to install household toilets
for the sanitary disposal of excreta. Some 750,000 toilet bowls, at a present
cost of iP 60 each, are expected to be installed at a present cost to the
Government of P 427 per toilet bowl installed (P 60 per toilet bowl;
P 207 for MOH's present cost of administering the program; and P 160
for the incremental cost to MOH for health education and training). However,
there will be a large local community input by the recipient households; this
includes the digging of the toilet pit, provision of the superstructure,
wooden platforms and pit linings with locally available materials (see para.
3.14). This community participation is estimated to have a value of about
P 480 per family or about 53% of the total cost. This is an appropriate
mechanism for financing the rural sanitation program (para. 5.07).
V. JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
5.01       General.  The health benefits of the proposed rural water supply and
sanitation project are difficult to estimate in economic terms. It is, how-
ever, generally accepted that the higher quality of drinking water and sanita-
tion to be provided under the project would improve the public health of these



- 25 -
communities, reduce their medical and hospitalization costs, increase their
effective nutrition - especially in children due to reduction of intestinal
parasites - and foster the productivity of the rural population. A better
balance in opportunities between the rural and urban areas and more equitable
access to social services would also result. A socio-economic survey conduc-
ted for this project indicates that rural communities attach a high value to
improved water supply and sanitation. Women and children who spend long hours
fetching water would especially benefit from the project.
5.02      Population Benefitted.  The rural water supply component would
provide communal faucet service to clusters of households of about 100-150
families and hand pump service to clusters of households of about 15 to 50
families reaching a total population of about 1.7 million./< The rural
sanitation program would provide about 750,000 new or rehabilitated household
toilets during the project period of five years to reach a total population of
about 4.5 million. Most of this population is among the poorest inhabitants
of the country and through the project would have access to safe water and
proper sanitation for the first time.
5.03      Economic Evaluation.  The project is designed to provide an
integrated approach including not only safe water, and basic sanitation, but
also health education on the use of the sanitary facilities. A considerable
part of the project inputs are in community development, community organiza-
tion and institutional building, which should contribute to overall community
improvements.  The economic return on the overall investment is not quanti-
fiable because of the impossibility of assigning monetary values to the health
and institutional benefits and because the overall project revenues - as a
proxy for quantifiable benefits - are negligible, especially in the rural
sanitation component.
5.04      In a typical Level II communal rural water supply system, the
average water tariff would be set after discussions at public hearings and
would have to be accepted by each community before construction starts. Using
the 48 lpcd to be provided under the project as a proxy measure of quantifi-
able benefits, the internal rate of return (IRR) is estimated to be 4%. How-
ever, using the present water charges paid by beneficiaries to water vendors
for the first 20 lpcd and one-half of this rate for the incremental 28 lpcd
to be provided under the project as a proxy measure of willingness to pay,
the IRR is 10%.  Given that the health and other benefits have not been
considered, this calculation suggests that the economic rate of return of the
project is positive.
5.05      Quantitative measures of the costs and benefits for the Level II
systems in the project are at Table 7 and are summarized below:
/1 Calculated on the assumption that the 10,000 wells in the project would
each serve an average of 25 households and each household has a family
size of six persons; and the 400 communal faucet schemes each serves a
cluster of 100 households and each household has six persons.



- 26 -
(a) Internal rate of return (IRR). IRRs have been calculated using
observed willingness to pay as a proxy for economic benefits.
The results are:
(i)  Considering the expected average water charges             4%
(ii)  At estimated total willingness to pay                     10%
(b) Investments. Average per capita costs vary depending on the
water source:
Systems with springs, gravity feed                       $ 9
Systems with wells and electric pumps                    $22
(c)  Water Charges.  Average water charges as a percentage of
average rural family income                                   1.1%
5.06      The financial recovery and the IRRs obtained for the rural water
supply component are achievable through a combination of public health
education (increasing the awareness of water benefits) and least cost designs
using appropriate low cost technologies. Depending on water source, the
average per capita investment is only about $10 for Level I and about $20
for Level II systems. Furthermore, average water charges are expected to be
well below 2% of the average rural family income, making the water affordable
to the rural poor and guaranteeing the replicability of this project and
confirming the prospect of eventual achievement of the Rural Water Supply
Master Plan targets.
5.07      No quantitative methods are available to evaluate the rural
sanitation component. Nevertheless its impact on the well-being, health and
environment are well known. The beneficiaries' willingness to build the rural
sanitation toilets is demonstrated by their contribution of 53% to the
construction of toilet units (para. 4.05). The rural sanitation component is
expected to have a large impact not only in reducing parasitical infections,
especially in children, but also in reducing infant mortality and the death
rate of young children due to enteritis and other diarrheal diseases caused by
fly-borne vectors. The health education and household toilet construction
program in the project is justifiable in terms of the reduction of these
public health hazards. The total cost of the program (including government
outlays and the community contribution) at P 907 per toilet bowl installed
is considered to be reasonable.
5.08      This project is the first Bank rural water supply and sanitation
project in the Philippines designed to provide services exclusively to the
lowest income rural population who at present depend upon unprotected wells
for their drinking water and lack basic sanitary facilities. Total water and
sanitation per capita cost for the program (1982 prices) are about $30 per
person served, ($12 for water and $18 for sanitation). Bank participation
would be a catalyst in helping Government implement the full program.



- 27 -
B. Risks
5.09      The main risk is the limited experience of RWDC and MOH with
implementing a rural water supply and sanitation project of the magnitude and
complexity envisaged. Although RWDC is a new institution it has the support
of an experienced organization in the MPWH.  RWDC's present General Manager
has extensive experience with rural communities through his connection with
the ongoing rural electrification program. MOH has some experience with the
toilet construction program but there is the risk of implementation delays
due to low community acceptance of the project because of a lack of knowledge
of the health benefits of good sanitation. The training and community health
education programs supported by technical assistance from consultants included
in the project would minimize these risks.  Furthermore the rural water supply
and sanitation program is supported at the highest levels in Government.  In
addition, well-qualified staff have been appointed and their motivation and
enthusiasm are important assets. Bank's experience with LWUA's management and
staff in the two ongoing provincial water supply projects has been
encouraging, giving room for confidence that both RWDC and MOH staff would
similarly gain experience and successfully implement the project.
C. Environmental Aspects
5.10      The project is intended to rehabilitate existing rural water supply
and sanitation systems and to extend these services to large numbers of rural
inhabitants who do not have access to adequate or safe water supply. The need
for much of the population to satisfy water requirements from safe water
sources would be substantially met and the incidence and risks of waterborne
diseases would be reduced. The volume of water used by people served
through public wells or standpipes is modest, allowing them to satisfy basic
human requirements for cooking and personal use with little wastage, and would
not cause any serious disposal problem. The additional waste water resulting
from the project would not therefore be an environmental problem.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal matters:
(a)  Government would implement the recommendations agreed with
the Bank on the sector organization review (para. 1.12);
(b)  MPWH workshops would be adequately organized, staffed and funded
(para. 3.05);
(c)  MPWH and MOH would staff their respective project management offices
(paras. 3.13 and 3.14); and
(d)  Government would staff the Project Implementation and Review
Committee (para. 3.17).



- 28 -
6.02      During negotiations agreement was reached with RWDC that it would:
(a) appoint one of its senior staff with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for project coordination
and implementation of Level II systems (para. 3.13); and
(b) cause water charges to be set to cover operating and maintenance
costs and debt service requirements, review water charges annually
and ensure RWSAs receiving loans from RWDC are audited (para. 4.04).
6.03      Subject to the above the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
$35.5 million equivalent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of
5 years.



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(P million)
1982               1983               1984                1985               1986                Total
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign
Rural Water Supply
- Water supply system                 -        -       12.4       19.8     12.4      19.8     12.4       19.9     12.3      19.9      49.5       79.4
- Equipment and vehicles              -        5.8      -         17.4      -         -        -           -        -        -          -        23.2
- Maintenance facilities              0.1      -        0.2        0.1      0.3       0.3      0.4        0.3      0.2       0.2        1.2       0.9
- Engineering                         0.2      0.2       0.8       0.6      1.4       1.1       1.6       1.2      0.8       0.6        4.8       3.7
- Training                            0.4      0.1       1.1       0.5      2.0       0.8      2.3        0.9      1.2       0.5        7.0       2.8
Base Cost (mid-
1982 prices)                  0.7      6.1     14.5       38.4     16.1      22.0     16.7      22.3      14.5      21.2      62.5      110.0
Rural Sanitation
- Sanitary units                      -        -        2.2        5.7      2.2       5.7      2.3        5.6      2.2       5.7        8.9      22.7
- Water quality surveillance          -         1.0     -          1.5      -         0.9      -          0.3      -         -          -         3.7
- Stabilization ponds                 -        -         1.2       1.0      1.2       1.1      -         -                   -          2.4       2.1
- Vehicles                            -         1.5      -         6.1      -         -        -          -        -                    -         7.6
- Training administration            19.8      -       38.5        -       38.5        _      19.8        -        -         _        116.6       -
Base Cost (mid-
1982 prices)                 19.8      2.5    41.9        14.3    41.9        7.7    22.1         5.9      2.2       5.7     127.9       36.1
Total Base Cost (mid-
1982 prices)                 20.5      8.6    56.4        52.7     58.0      29.7     38.8      28.2      16.7      26.9     190.4      146.1
Contingencies
- Physical                            2.0      0.8      5.6        5.3      5.8       3.0      3.9        2.8      1.7       2.7       19.0      14.6
- Price                               0.6      0.3       5.7       4.7     11.5       5.3     11.7        7.8      6.9       9.7       36.4      27.8
Total Project Cost              23.1      9.7    67.7       62.7    75.3        38.0    54.4       38.8     25.3       39.3     245.8     188.5



- 30 -
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Sample Construction Costs
(Pesos - at July 1982 prices)
I-------- -- Level I ------------ -- Level II--
|Shallow well  Deep well   Springs        Standpipes
Foreign Costs
- Materials                  1,300       20,000      32,000         40,000
Local Cost
- Materials                    200          700       2,400          22,000
- Labor                        300        7,700       5,500           6,100
- Transport                     100       3,900       3,300           2,200
- Supervision                    -        2,000       2,200           2,200
- Self-help /a                 200        4,300       4,650           8,300
- Physical contingency          100       1,400       4,000           2,200
Subtotal                   900       14,000     22,000          43,000
Total Cost               2,200       49,000     54,000          93,000
/a Unskilled labor and other inputs provided by the community.



Table 3
- 31 -
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                Cumulative disbursements                Disbursement
and semester ending                  at end of semester                    profile /a
(US$ million)    (%)                        (%)
1983
December 31, 1982                    0.5            1                         1
June 30, 1983                         2.0           6                         6
1984
December 31, 1983                    4.8           14                        14
June 30, 1984                        9.2           26                        26
1985
December 31, 1984                    14.6          41                        41
June 30, 1985                        20.4          57                        57
1986
December 31, 1985                   25.4           72                        72
June 30, 1986                       29.4          83                         83
1987
December 31, 1986                   32.3          91                        91
June 30, 1987                       35.5          100                        96
1988
December 31, 1987                    -             -                       100
/a  Based upon countrywide disbursement profile for the water supply and
sewerage sector in the Philippines, adjusted for the payment of the
front-end fee.



- 32 - .                             Table 4
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amount
Category                            (US$ million)  Disbursement
Equipment, Materials, Chemicals
and Vehicles; total $16.45 mil-
lion as follows:
Water supply systems                  9.56       100% foreign expenditures or
100% local expenditures and
65% ex-factory of other items
produced locally
Water treatment                       2.79      - ditto -
Sanitation                           4.10       - ditto -
Civil Works
Well construction                     1.00       $100 per completed well for
10,000 wells
Toilet construction                  6.00       $8 per completed toilet unit
for 750,000 units
Maintenance workshops                 0.11      $9,000 per completed workshop
for 12 workshops
Stabilization ponds                  0.20       $17,000 per completed pond for
12 ponds
Level II water supply systems        3.00       $7,500 per completed Level II
system for 400 systems
Training                                0.45      30% of total expenditures for
local training 100% of total
expenditure for overseas
training
Consulting Services
Engineering, consulting and
research; total $1.35 mil-
lion as follows:
Preliminary and detailed         0.30       $750 per completed design for
engineering                                 400 Level II systems
Consulting services              0.96       100% of total expenditures
Research, development            0.09       100% of total expenditures
and monitoring
Engineering for future projects;
total $3.0 million as follows:
Flood control and drainage       1.80         100% of total expenditures
Solid wastes management          1.20         100% foreign expenditures
Front-End Fee                             0.52
Unallocated                               3.42
Total                        35.50



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PHYSICAL TARGETS - RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM
1984                                                  1985
Other                                                  Other
Spring      (surface                                  Spring       (surface
Shallow  Deep  devel-   water, infl.    Total    Shallow  Deep   devel-   water, infl.    Total
Category                          well    well  opment  gallery, etc.)  projects   well    well   opment  gallery, etc.)  projects
1. Drilling/development/
construction of point
sources for Level I
systems                        1,495   777       75           12          2,508      1,495      778      75          12          2,517
2. Rehabilitation of point
sources for Level I systems    340   630         30            -          1,000        340      630      30           -          1,000
3. Construction of Level
II systems                        20    65       40            7            132         20       66      40           7            133
1986                                              Grand totals
Other                                                  Other                     L
Spring      (surface                                   Spring      (surface
Shallow  Deep  devel-   water, infl.    Total    Shallow  Deep   devel-   water, infl.    Total
well    well  opment  gallery, etc.)  projects   well    well   opment  gallery, etc.)  projects
1. Drilling/development/
construction of point
sources for Levels I
systems                        1,495   777       75           12          2,359      4,485   2,332    225            36          7,078
2. Rehabilitation of point
sources for Level I systems    340   630         30            -          1,000      1,020   1,890       90           -          3,000
3. Construction of Level
II systems                        20    65       40            7            132         60      196    120           21            397
Notes:  1.  It is assumed that 1983 would be taken up with procurement and mobilization.
2.  Sources for Level I systems would be developed as appropriate for future expansion to Level II Systems.
3. Springs and infiltration galleries would be developed as appropriate for Level I systems.



- 34 -                             Table 6
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
TYPICAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS - LEVEL II SYSTEMS
Rural Waterworks Associations
(Pesos)
Suay Baguio  Badiong Sinawil  Bagumbayan    Masiag
RWA            RWA             RWA          RWA
Water Source                 -- Well with pump --           --Spring, gravity--
Project Cost                   65,800       197,200         66,000      66,000
Monthly Expenses:
Loan Amortization                 359         1,075            400          400
Maintenance                        76           217             50           50
Salaries                           76           217             50           50
Power                             167           358              -            -
Depreciation (pump)                83           300              -            _
Total                       761         2,167            500          500
No. of households                  56           200            150          330
Monthly fee/household           13.59         10.83           3.33         1.52



-35 -                                Table 7
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return Calculations (IRR)
(1981 prices)
System type II
Wells,    Wells,                          Weigh-
large      small    Spring,  Spring,    ted
clusters  clusters  gravity  gravity  average
Sample village                      Badiong    Suay       Bagum-   Sering
Sinawill   Baguio   bayan
Households                               200         56       150       182
Water consumption, cu m/year/a    21,024         5,887   15,768   19,132
Minimum consumption, cu m/
year/b                              8,760      2,453    6,570    7,972
Investment (Pesos)                  197,187    65,800   66,000   71,039
Monthly operating expenses
(Pesos)
Personnel                          216.7       76.1      50.0      48.5
Power                              358.0      166.5         0         0
Other                              216.7       76.1        50      48.5
Expected water charges /e
(Pesos/cu m)                        1.08       1.38      0.38      0.30
Pesos/month per family               9.3       12.0       3.5       2.7
Willingness to pay (Pesos/cu m)
For 20 lpcd  /b                        2          2          1        1
For 48 lpcd /d                      1.42       1.42      0.71      0.71
Expected distribution (%)             60         20        10        10       100
Rate of return /e
At expected water charges /c           4          4         5         6         4
Using estimated willingness to
pay /d                               9          5        16        19        10
Per capita investment
(US$/person)                        20.5       24.5       9.2       8.1        19
% average charges on family
income /f                            1.2        1.6       0.5       0.4       1.1
/a  48 LCD.  Water production including 25% losses will be 60 lpcd.
/b  Based on 20 lpcd purchased for about P 0.04 for a 20-liter can
(P 2/cu m) or US$0.23/cu m) in water-scarce zones and about P 0.02 in
other areas.
/c Water charges will cover all cash operating expenses and debt service.
Debt service is computed on 90% of the investment with 20-year term and 4%
interest. The deflation of debt service with inflation is expected to be
compensated by small complementary and maintenance investments.
/d Estimated at -P 2/cu m for the first 20 lped and P 1/cu m for the
remaining 28 lpcd (water-scarce zones) and P 1/cu m and P 0.5/cu m
respectively for other areas.
/e For 25 years. No health benefits or externalities have been included.
/f Average monthly rural family income in 1975 was -P 395 (about 45% of the
level in Manila) or about P 750 by mid-1981.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
First Rural Water Supply And
Sanitation Project
Project Description
A. Rural Water Supply Component
Selection Criteria
1.        Community Needs and Potentials.  Adequacy of existing supply and
extent of water gap: Adequacy in this context covers not only quantity but
also accessibility, reliability during the dry season, and quality.
Inadequacy of water supply vis-a-vis a set of standards is commonly expressed
as the "water gap." In general, communities with large water gaps, particu-
larly those that do not even have a protected well, will be accorded high
priority.
2.        Prevalence of water-borne and water-related diseases:  In many
instances, diseases such as gastroenteritis, dysentary, cholera and typhoid,
are traceable to the lack of adequate and potable water systems. Communities
with high incidence of these diseases will receive prior attention in the
selection of water supply projects.
3.        Growth prospects:  Lack of water supply may hamper the development
of the economic potentials of an area into, for instance, a market, food or
fish-processing center, or cottage-industries center. The community may
also suffer from insufficient water for other productive nondomestic uses,
such as agriculture, livestock, and vegetable cultivation. The greater the
economic potentials of an area, the higher shall be the priority for water
supply development. In this regard, economically depressed areas shall be
underscored.
4.        Community interest and involvement:  Other things being equal,
priority in project development assistance will be given to communities that
express their intent and readiness to form a water supply and sanitation
association and discharge the responsibility expected of it. This calls for
a commitment and ability of the community to contribute, in cash and/or in
kind (e.g land, labor, and materials), to the cost of construction, and to
pay an adequate fee for water use and system operation and maintenance. This
arrangement is essential in the planning stage to ensure that, through
consultation between the Barangay workers and the community, an appropriate
level of service is selected that will meet basic water and sanitation needs
and, at the same time, be within the capability of the community to pay for
and administer.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
System Costs
5.        Budget:  Each water supply project must be examined to ensure that
it represents the least-cost means of providing the required service.
Additionally, the ready availability of water will have a bearing on the
number of least-cost projects that can be implemented within a given
budgetary ceiling.
6.       Population Distribution:  Other things being equal, the larger and
more densely populated communities will require lower investment costs per
capita. Systems for a group of communities, or clusters of households that
are close together may have lower capital costs, possibly by using a common
source of supply, and be cheaper to operate and administer than those for
7.        Nature of Water Source:  The effects on costs of the type of
source and distance from the community are on important factor. Groundwater
from springs and wells, which requires little or no treatment to make it
safe, is preferable to surface water. Shallow wells are preferred over more
expensive deepwells with handpumps that are suitable.
8.        Levels of service:  The effects of the service levels on costs is
important, and community involvement in deciding the most appropriate level
is essential. Systems would be designed for simple and trouble-free oper-
ation, and be capable of being operated and maintained by local technicians.
Equipment must be able to withstand utilization, replacement parts should be
readily obtainable. To facilitate project development and minimize costs,
standard designs, and documents which can be slightly modified to meet local
conditions, have been developed and used for estimation of quantities and
costs, procurement, construction, and operation.
9.        Accessibility:  Water supply projects located in a place without
good access roads and/or accessible only by foot paths are more expensive.
However, there are instances whereby such communities urgently need potable
water supply. In this case, the community would play a pivotal role in
implementing a project.
Source Development
10.       Site Investigation:  (a) it is likely to occur in larger quantities
under valleys than hills; (b) in arid regions certain types of waterloving
plants indicate the presence of groundwater at shallow depths underneath;
(c) gravel, sand, sandstone and limestone are the best water-carriers; and
(d) surfacewater resources include rivers, smaller streams, lakes, ponds and
man-made reservoirs. Ease of development would be an important
consideration.
11.       Quantity of Yield.  The quantity of water available from a source
is its yield. It is measured by various methods depending upon the nature of
the source, that is, groundwater or a surface source also, and what informa-
tion is available: (a) pump test; (i) rate of pumping; and (ii) recovery
test; (b) theorectical method; and (c) a combination of the above two.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
12.       In measuring the quantity of a surface source the methods adopted
are:  (a) stream gauging; and (b) cross-section velocity method.
13.       Quality of Water.  No two sources are exactly alike and, with the
exception of some well supplies, even the same source may produce water of
widely varying quality at different times. Thus, it should be emphasized
that each supply must be studied by itself all throughout the year when
measures for its treatment are under consideration.
14.       Location of the Source.  A source preferably should be in the
close vicinity of the population served. Out of two nearby sources the one
which has better water should be away from any point of waste disposal, and
in case of a river it should be on the upstream side. Shallow wells should
not be sited close to pit latrines.
15.       Design Criteria and Typical Designs.  The following design criteria
including basic design data will be adopted for all rural water supply
projects:
(1)  Design period - 5 years or 10 years
(2)  Population
(a) Annual Growth - 3%
(b) Average Household Size - 6 persons
(c) Design Population - Present population x 1.16
(3)  Per Capita Water Consumption:
(a)  Level I       -  30 lpcd (8gpcd)
(b)  Level II      -  60 lpcd (15 gpcd) to
75 lpcd (20 gpcd)
(c)  Level III    - 100 lpcd (25 gpcd)
(4)  Water Demand:
(a)  Average Day Demand - Design population x per capita
consumption
(b)  Maximum Day Demand - 1.3 x average day demand
(c) Maximum Hour Demand - 2.5 x average day demand
(5)  Pump Operation:
(a) Pumping Hours - 8-16 hours
(b) Pumping Data - Maximum day demand and pumping hours
(6)  Storage Capacity - 1.4 maximum day demand
(7)  System Pressure - 5 psi at faucet (for barangay system)
10 psi at faucet (for poblacion system)



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
16.        Varied water supply designs will be used for the Program, and its
adaption is dependent on the actual condition in the community. Presented
hereunder in tabular form are typical model systems.
TYPICAL MODEL RURAL WATER SYSTEMS
Code                   Description
1            Shallow well - 1-1/2" PVC Casing Pipe with
cast iron hand pump (surface mounted).
Average depth 12 m
2            Shallow well - 2" G.I. casing pipe with
cast iron hand pump (surface mounted).
Average depth 12 m.
3            Shallow well - 4" PVC casing, no drop pipe where
the discharge of such well is 20 to 50 gpm. To
be developed into Level II service.
4            Deep well - light duty; 2" G.I. casing pipe with
hand operated (sub-mounted) all brass cylinder of
dia 1-13/16" x 24" barrel and valve group. Aver-
age depth is 24 m and 3/8" x 18 m. rod. No chance
for conversion to Level II.
5            Deep well - medium duty, low cost for smaller Baran-
gay; 4" PVC casing with 1-1/2"0 G.I. drop pipe, hand
operated with all brass working barrel of 2-1/4" x 24"
and valve group with PVC screen (experimental).
Average depth 60 m.
6            Deep well - heavy duty-high cost for bigger Barangay.
5"O steel casing, 2-1/2" G.I. #40 drop pipe with
2-1/4" x24 all brass working barrel and valve group
with low carbon galvanized steel fiber glass or PVC
screen. For upgrading to Level II. Average depth
60 m.
7            Deep well - for smaller Poblacioin, well discharge up
150 GPM. 6"O steel casing with low carbon galvanized
stell screen. Average depth 60 m.
8            Others: spring boxes and infiltration galleries.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
17.       Shallow wells are constructed with average depth approximately where
small diameter tube wells with hand operated cast iron suction pumps are
normally used. This type of wells are installed in areas where the maximum
ground water level (water table) is not lower than 6.10 m (20 ft) measured
from the gournd surface. The pipe casing of 2" nominal size, serves as the
well casing and drop pipe of the pump. The average yield is 20 liters per
minute and each unit usually serves 5 to 40 households.
18.       The well must be drilled with the open hole method to allow proper
selection of the aquifer for easy screen installation and for gravel packing
if necessary.
19.       Before installation of the pump, the well would be properly
developed to clean out mud and sand. After taking out the large diameter
temporary casing, the annular spaces outside the well casing is grounded
with concrete to a depth lower than that of existing sources of contamination,
to serve as sanitary protection.
20.       The pump base is normally constructed about 1.0 m above the ground
surface to avoid contamination of the wall during floods. Also, a concrete
slab platform of 10 mm thick protects the well from contamination due to
excess water pumped.
21. Deep wells have depths of 9.0 m and above, which are normally drilled by
percussion or rotary drills. The casing will be 4" and 5" in nominal sizes
provided with deep set, brass cylinder pumps 2-3/4" x 23" with 3" drop pipes.
(a) Drilling method. Open hole method of drilling must be used. To
avoid caving-in at the upper portion of the hole, a temporary
casing of a large diameter is installed but which is pulled out
after drilling works. To support the walls of the holes at the
deeper portion, clayey material "soil" is mixed with drilling
water. With a little practice, loca well drillers could master
drilling holes of more than 100 meters even with manually operated
percussion drilling machines. This method allows not only
examination of drilling samples gathered, but also actual
confirmation of the potentially of the aquifer by electric
logging. Proper seleciton of suitable aquifer is therefore
effected.
(b) Well design:
(i) casing sizes - Level I projects are considered for future
upgrading to Level II & III projects, hence, the casing
size is dictated by the sizes of the proposed pump to be
installed that will produce the expected yield or required
demand. Casings of 4", 5" and 6" nominal sizes are normally
used; and



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
(ii)  screen length - in unconfined aquifer, the screen length
must not be less than 1/3 of the total thickness of the
aquifer. In confined aquifer, not less than 70% of the
whole thickness of the aquifer shall be penetrated by the
screen.
(b)  Well completion and development:
(i) because open bottom is vulnerable to sand intrusion, which
is established as the most common problem in well maintenance,
all well bottoms shall be plugged by welding a steel sheet to
the lower end of the installed casing;
(ii)  to safeguard against sand flowing from the aquifer through
pumping, gravel packing may be undertaken. The gravel pack
size must be approximately 5 times as coarse as the gradiation
of aquifer material. Uniformity coefficient must be 2.5 or
less;
(iii) in well development, the well must be thoroughly cleaned of
mud after drilling. Mud left at the walls of a bore-hole
gets hardened and it leads to the stoppage of groundwater
flow through openings in the aquifer and around the screens.
Sufficient cleaning work is indespensable in order to
prevent incrustation;
(iv)  for sanitary protection, the annular spaces outside the casing
in the oversized borehole is grouted to a minimum depth of
10 ft to prevent the entry of contaminated water from nearby
sources;
(v) a well slab platform of about 4 ft in diameter with a minimum
thickness of 4" and incorporating a drainage canal and
properly sloped to drain water away from the well must be
constructed which should be 4" above the existing ground
level;
(vi) the well would be chlorinated and put into service upon
approval by the sanitary inspector.
B. Rural Sanitation Component
22.       Training and Administration.  There are 87 Sanitary Engineers
position (27) vacant) in the Ministry of Health, 3,000 Sanitary Inspectors,
7,950 Public Health Nurses, 7,573 Midwives and 4,516 Municipal Health
Officers./l The average time being devoted by the MOH personnel in
sanitation activities is as follows:
/1 As of November 1981.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
Estimated
Title/Position                                   time in %
Regional health director                                5
Regional sanitary engineer                             50
Senior sanitary engineer                               50
Regional training officer                              20
Regional nurse supervisor                              10
Regional health educator                               30
Municipal health officer                               30
Field sanitary engineer                                50
Chief sanitary inspector                               50
Supervisor sanitary inspector                          50
Provincial nurse supervisor                            10
Provincial health educator                             30
Municipal health officer                               30
Public health nurse                                    10
Sanitary inspector                                     80
Midwives                                               30
23.       Non Incremental Costs of the Sanitation Component.  The costs of
the sanitation component are made up of the following: (a) salaries and
wages; (b) travelling/per diem; (c) fuel for vehicles; (d) information,
education and training materials both for training of MOH staff and of the
communities. Items (a), (b) and (c) are classified by MOH as administrative
items and (d) as training. Listed below are the costs of salaries and wages
of 19 categories of staff involved in MOH's sanitation activities during
1981. This is expected to be unchanged in 1982. No breakdown is available
of time specifically devoted to health education in safe drinking water and
sanitary disposal of excreta. Very approximately, based upon the table
above this was about 25% in 1981 but would be increased to about 50% per
annum when the project is implemented commencing October 1982. On this
basis, the nonincremental cost for the project in salaries and wages for the
period ending 1986 would be about P 155 million. During 1981 the
estimated cost of travelling/per diem was P19,200 and fuel P 108,000.
About 20% of these costs are estimated to be related to sanitation. On this
basis, non-incremental costs during the project period would be P 19,200
and P 89,800 respectively. In 1981 there were no regular government
non-incremental expenditures for information education and training
materials because of an ongoing WHO/UNICEF National Sanitation Training
Program at the Institute of Public Health, University of Philippines. This
is a two year program ending in 1982. The estimated local component if this
program in 1981 was P 864,000 in training costs. These costs would not be
repeated after the end of 1982.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
ANNUAL SALARY OF MINISTRY OF HEALTH PERSONNEL
Annual      No.          Total
Salary    Persons       per year
(P)                      (P)
Ministry of Health       .......................  75,000     1          75,000
Assistant Minister    .......................  61,464        3         184,392
Regional Health Director   ................. 61,464         12         737,568
Provincial Health Officer                    22,728         73       1,659,144
City Health Officer 
Municipal Health Officer ................. .    15,264   4,500      68,688,000
Head/Chief Sanitary Engineer ......... .. ...  26,388        1          26,388
Sanitary Engineering Adviser .............  23,892           2          47,784
Supervising Sanitary Engineer II ......... 22,728            3          68,184
Supervising Sanitary Engineer I ...........  20,580         11         226,380
Senior Sanitary Engineer ... ..............  16,860         14         236,040
Sanitary Engineer .........................  14,532         60         871,920
Sanitary Inspector ............. ..........   6,240      3,000      18,720,000
Public Health Nurse                  ....o..    7,992    8,000      63,936,000
Rural Health Midwife   ...................   6,240       7,000      43,680,000
Senior Sociologist .......................  12,516           2          25,032
Sociologist ............  ....................... 11,328    12         135,936
Senior Clerk ............a....   7,236                   1,000       7,236,000
Clerk II .................................   5,926       1,000       5,926,000
Clerk I ....... ........     ..............   5,382      1,000       5,382,000
Total                                                  217,861,768
One-third of staff costs cover health work = P 72,620,589
About one-half of these costs would cover
the provision of safe drinking water and
sanitation during project period            = P 36,310,294
24.       Incremental Costs Because of Sanitation Project Component.  The
purely incremental costs are broadly classified by MOH into "Training and
Administration" and have 9 separate items as described below:
Administration
(a)  Temporary Staff - MOH describes this category as Personnel
Services - Contractual and includes the following; 2 senior civil
engineers, 1 senior sociologist and 6 support staff paid a total
annual salary with cost of living allowances of about P 190,000.
The total cost of this staff is estimated at P 1.04 million
during the project period.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
(b) Incentive Pay - So as to ensure the success of the project and to
compensate for working extra hours in the various aspects of
project implementation, incentive pay has been included in the
incremental costs ranging between 25% and 35% of annual salaries
payable to staff directly involved in the sanitation project
component. Considering the low pay of MOH staff (e.g. Sanitary
Inspectors, (SI) a key official in the community health education
program is paid P 6,240 per annum) the payment of incentives is
justified. About 2,000 sanitary inspectors directly responsible
for project implementation would each receive an incentive pay of
P 2,040 per annum during the project period. The total number
of staff benefitting from incentive payments would be about 2,200
and annual payments would total about P 4.8 million making the
total amount during the project period of about P 20.3 million.
(c) Travelling/Per Diem. Travelling per diem payments are provided as
incremental costs for 3000 sanitary inspectors and 1500 municipal
health officers for the community health education program. The
sanitary inspectors would spend 10 days in the field each month; the
60 supervisory sanitary engineers 15 days of each month in the
field and 11 management staff about 20 days per quarter in each
year. Except for management staff who are paid P 45 per day all
other staff are paid P 25 per day travelling/per diem. The
annual total would be about P 13.5 million with an overall total
of about P 55.0 million during the project period.
(d) Incremental Fuel Costs. MOH has a system under which gasoline is
provided to official vehicles or private vehicles that are used
for official travel. The gasoline is supplied at special prices
from dealers or from government depots. The proposed incremental
costs in gasoline for the sanitation component are estimated as
follows: gasoline for 15 days for one vehicle for the Supervising
Sanitary Inspector in each of the 12 regions at 20 liters per
day; 5 days use of one vehicle for the Regional Director,
Provincial Health Offices and Municipal Health Officers for a
total of 15 days in each month in each of the 12 regions; and 3
liters per day for 820 motorcycles used for the project. At
P 5.00 per liter the total incremental cost for gasoline in each
year would be about P 1.6 million and for the project period
about P 6.4 million.
(e) Hauling Charges. The toilet bowls and chlorine procured through
ICB would be delivered to the Regional Health Offices. The cost
of the 750,000 toilet bowls are estimated at P 60 each, total
P 45.0 million and that of the chemicals, P 4.2 million. The
transportation of these supplies to the user RWSAs varies
considerably between the different parts of the country and has
been averaged at 10% of their cost, totalling about P 4.9
million.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
(f) Supplies and Forms. The sanitation component of the project would
require a considerable increase in record keeping and related
paper work. The cost of this incremental stationary in each
region would be as follows in each year: 50 reams mimeographing
paper, 20 mimeographing ink tubes, 20 quire stencils, 40 reams
bond paper and 100 reams of onionskin paper all at an annual
incremental cost of about P 96,000 for the 12 regions and at a
total cost of P 444,000 during the project period.
(g) Training. Training of senior staff provides for 25 man-months at
overseas fellowships in the design and construction of low cost
rural water supply and sanitation systems at a cost of P 1.25
million. This gives about 12 two month fellowships and one,
one-month fellowship. Local training would be conducted at the
national, regional, provincial and municipal levels of all staff
directly involved in the sanitation component of the project.
This staff in turn would become trainers or make direct contact
with the rural communities. These are all incremental costs as
the training would be solely devoted to safe drinking water and
sanitary excreta disposal. All of these costs are for travel and
per diem payments during training as follows:



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
Level of Training                                 Pesos
National
12 Regional Health Directors (3 days)                              15,600
24 Senior Sanitary Engineers in 12 Regions (5 days)                36,600
10 National Task Force Members (4 days)                             4,000
10 Persons in related agencies ( 1 day)                             1,000
Regional
206 Provincial Health Officers, City Health Officers
and Regional Nurse Supervisors (3 days)                         38,200
150 Chief and Supervisory Sanitary Inspectors (7 days)             54,700
120 Regional Task Force Members (4 days)                           48,000
120 Person in related agencies (1 day)                             12,000
Provincial
1500 Municipal Health Officers and Public Health
Nurses (3 days)                                                465,000
6000 Rural Sanitary Inspectors and Rural
Health Midwives (4 days)                                     1,140,000
730 Provincial Task Force Members (6 days)                       219,000
730 Persons in related agencies (2 days)                          73,000
Municipal
15,000 Mayors and Council Members (1 day)                        750,000
39,500 Barangay Captains (1 day)                                1,185,000
7,300 Municipal Task Force Members (6 days)                     1,382,900
Barangay
3 RWSAs from each of 39,500 Barangays (5 days)                 11,850,000
Miscellaneous meetings (unscheduled)                            2,107,000
Total                                                    19,382,000
Training Materials
(h)  Information, Education and Communication Materials.  So as to make
the rural communities aware of the advantages of safe drinking
water and sanitary excreta disposal the following posters,
instructional handouts and comics for school children would be
provided at a total incremental cost of P 7.5 million; 160,000
posters @ P 1.40 each for the International Drinking Water and
Supply and Sanitation Decade program, 160,000 posters @ P 1.40
each related to diseases caused by unsafe drinking water and
contact with excreta, one million instructional handouts @
P 3.20 each on construction of sanitary toilets; and one million
comic handouts @ P 4.20 each related to safe drinking water and
good sanitation.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12
(i) Demonstration Materials. MOH has devised simple chlorinators for
use in wells and springs to disinfect drinking water supplies.
The project therefore has a small provision of P 174,000 at
P 10 per chlorinator with a total of 17,400 devices to be used
in the demonstration of the advantages of chlorinating water
supplies. The sanitary inspectors would install these
cholorinators and provide chlorine procured under the project
until the RWSAs take over these functions.
25.       The non incremental costs and incremental costs are compared below
with incremental costs over the project period. October 1982 - December 1986.
SUMMARY OF NONINCREMENTAL AND PROJECT RELATED INCREMENTAL COSTS
Million
Item                               Pesos              Remarks
A. Non-Incremental Costs /1
Salaries and Wages                   155.000   Based on 1981 expenditures
Travelling/Per Diem                    0.017
Fuel                                   0.090
Total                          155.107
B. Project Related Incremental Costs
Administration
Temporary Staff                      1.044   Hired on contract and
laid off after the project
Incentive Pay                       20.247
Travelling/Per Diem                 54.924
Fuel                                 6.444
Handling Charges                     4.922
Supplies and Forms                   0.444
Subtotal                          88.025
Training
Health Education                    19.382
Fellowships                          1.250   Overseas; 25 man-months
Training Materials                   7.848
Demonstration Materials              0.174
Subtotal                          28.654
Total                          116.679
/1 Nonincremental costs are not included in the project cost estimates.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 13
The largest non-incremental cost will be in salaries and wages. Traveling/
Per Diem and fuel costs have been relatively insignificant and can be
therefore ignored.
Unit Costs
26.       For the 750,000 toilet units to be constructed under the project
unit costs will be as follows:
(1)  Total cost of community contribution  = P 360 million
Cost per unit to householder          = P 480
(2)  Total nonincremental Government cost  = P 155 million
Cost per unit to Government           = P 207
(3)  Total incremental project cost           = P 117 million
Cost per unit to Government           = P 160
Cost per toilet bowl                  = P 60
Total incremental cost per unit   = P 220
Total incremental cost per capita = P 27.50
Summary Cost per toilet unit              Pesos    Percent
Community                     480        53
Nonincremental                207        23
Incremental                   220        24
Total cost per unit         907       100
Cost per capita             151
assuming 6 persons
per household
Selection Criteria
27.       There are seven major types of toilet facilities being used by the
community, namely, flush toilet with septic tank, flush toilet connected to
the sewer, water sealed toilet, sanitary privy, open pit privy, overhung and
drop type.
28.       Considering the socio-economic condition of the community, the
sanitarians recommend and persuade the people to construct flush toilet with
septic tank in urban areas and water sealed toilets in rural areas. In
areas where they do not have enough water for flushing the toilet, the
sanitary privy is recommended.



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 14
29.       The three types of toilet cost as follows:/1
Investment
Type of toilet      cost/unit                         Description
Flush with            P 3,300 to             Most of septic tanks are of
septic tank         P 4,000                 the leaching type, without a
tile field, or connection to
a sewerage system.
Water sealed          P 150 to                Water sealed toilet is widely
toilet              P 540                  used by the rural communities
and many households like to
have the type as it is cheaper
and has certain advantages
such as no odor nuisance, no
fly breeding source and safe
for children to use, easy to
clean as compared with the
pit privy.
Sanitary pit privy   P 100                    Pit privy consists of a pit
about 1 m x 1 m x 1.5 m deep,
provided with toilet seat covers.
30.       The households in areas where the ground water table is high and
there is danger of contaminating ground water sources, shall be required to
construct toilets with septic tank or vault or off-set type of water sealed
toilet with shallow and wide pit.
31.       Besides the government supplied water sealed toilet bowl and
health education, the construction work will be shouldered by the recipient
households, which includes digging toilet pit, provision of super structure,
wooden platforms and pit linings with locally available materials, based on
the recommendations made by the health authorities RWSA, or barangay
officials. The householder would do the work himself with assistance from
members of his family.
/_ November 1981 prices.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 15
32.       The Water Seal Squat Type Toilet Bowl.  This device which would be
supplied free of cost by Government,was conceived to provide a means of
disposing human excreta in unsewered areas so that the usual objections from
ordinary latrines due to odor nuisance is eliminated. It also meets
requirements for the hygenic disposal of feces and urine: (a) that none of
the feces and urine shall be disposed so that they will pollute the soil
surface; (b) that none shall cause odor or be accessible to flies, insects,
and animals; (c) that none shall be so disposed as to make it possible to
carry it back into the food; and (d) that none shall be used to fertilize
soil for growing vegetables that are eaten raw.
33.       This device in addition to meeting the above requirements also
provides an acceptable latrine from the standpoint of its: (a) simplicity;
(b) inexpensiveness; (c) minimum reliance upon individual for maintenance;
and (d) convenience and comfort.
34.       The water seal type toilet seat works on the same principle as the
common flush type water closet except that the removal of the waste matter
is achieved by pouring a smaller volume of water into the device. Enough
water is retained in the lower portion of the device which forms a seal and
prevents odor from the pit getting into the toilet room and flies or
mosquitoes breeding in the pit. This type of toilet may be constructed out
of clay or cement, plastic or fiber glass. This device also offers these
advantages over other cheap types of excreta disposal: (a) contact of feces
from flies eliminated; (b) it encourages higher standard of maintenance;
(c) it cannot be easily clogged; (d) it is safe for children; (e) it can be
installed near or within the house; (f) digestion of waste is more rapid
hence longer period of use; and (g) it can be used in wide range type of
soil conditions.
35.       The Government is encouraging the adaption of the off-set type of
toilet which can be installed inside the house with fiberglass toilet bowl,
which will not require the use of heavy concrete slabs as the bowl can be
mounted on lumber or timber to support the footrest. The advantages of this
type of toilet bowls are that they are unbreakable, easy to clean and easy
to transport.
36.       During the toilet construction period, the Sanitary Inspector would
make routine visits to the sites in accordance with the toilet construction
schedule of the barangay to render technical assistance on site selection,
type to be constructed, method of construction, maintenance, etc. in coordi-
nation with the Rural Water and Sanitation Association (RWSA) and Barangay
Health Workers. After completion of the construction of new toilets and
rehabilitation of insanitary ones, the Sanitary Inspectors shall issue
"Certificate of Compliance" to Sanitary Requirements to the RWSA. After the
issuance of the "Certificate of Compliance," the Barangay Health Workers,
Brigade and the Board Member of the Water and Sanitation Association will
check the facilities for proper use and maintenance from time to time. The
midwives during their house visits would also check/inspect the facilities and
the Sanitary Inspector in the area would make periodic monitoring and sur-



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 16
veillance on all newly constructed and rehabilitated toilets and water supply
facilities in the assignment areas.
Water Quality Surveillance
37.       The Rural Sanitary Inspectors would inspect periodically all water
supply facilities in his area of responsibility and make a schedule for
disinfection in the order of priority based on the laboratory examination of
results and current/standing policies for the operators use and guide. The
RWSAs will eventually take up this activity. Disinfection of open dug wells
will gradually be decreased to zero as the construction of new water supply
facilities increase, taking the place of open dug wells. Implementation
targets are shown in the table below:
Phase
Classification             1983    1984    1985    1986        1987       total
1. Water laboratories
(ongoing)
a. Improvement of
regional laboratories: Communities  -          -        -       12         12
b. Establishment of pro-
vincial laboratories:  Communities  -          -        -       64         64
2. Disinfection
a. Deep wells              54,966  64,966  75,996   37,966  40,966   274,860
b. Shallow wells           75,290  77,290  92,290  108,290  62,290   415,450
c. Springs                   7,385  11,385  15,985   20,385   4,885    60,025
d. Open dug wells          13,000  15,000  15,000   13,000  10,000    66,000
38.       MOH will intensify its water quality surveillance program to
cover nationwide the monitoring and surveillance of water quality on
existing and newly constructed water supply facilities, improve drinking
water supply facilities and provide safe and adequate drinking water to all
Filipinos by 1990 using the primary health care approach and concept. The
construction of water supply facilities will be the responsibility of the
MPWH, RWDC, LWUA, MLG, MWSS, etc. and water quality surveillance shall be
sole responsibiity of the MOH.
39.       In connection with the above, MOH shall improve and upgrade
12 Regional Sanitary Laboratories and establish 64 Provincial Sanitary Labora-
tories by the end of 1982 with ongoing UNICEF financial assistance.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 17
40.       All the community drinking water supply facilities will be
inspected and water samples collected periodically by the Sanitary Inspectors
for bacteriological as well as chemical and physical analysis. During the
inspection, sanitary inspectors will recommend proper improvement measures to
the responsible person or RWSA members.
Waste Stabilization Ponds
41.       The Ministry of Health plans to undertake the wastewater treatment
of 12 rural towns (poblacions) by providing drainage systems with simple
stabilization ponds in a pilot project. The materials and equipment required
for the construction of a low cost small base system utilizing stabilization
ponds as treatment methods will be the responsibility of the government while
land cost and labor will be shouldered by beneficiary communities.
42.       A trained operator will be in charge of the operation and mainte-
nance of the treatment facility. The project provides for consultancy
services to design, operate and maintain the systems.
43.       Data will be collected on the costs of construction and operation of
the systems; information on the population served, the degree of loading and
treatment achieved will be collected; and the pilot installations carefully
monitored.  It is expected that the data and information obtained will provide
a basis for improving the design of stabilization ponds in the Philippines.
The project provides for consultants to assist with the design and operation
of low cost sanitation sytems.
Employment
44.       Since most of the works would be done through self-help
or by Government staff, the additional employment generated by the project
is limited to the construction of 12 stabilization ponds and 400 Level II
systems. These are expected to provide: (a) 108 man-months of skilled and
240 man-months of unskilled employment for the construction of the ponds; and
(b) 1,600 man-months of skilled and 8,000 man-months unskilled employment for
the Level II systems./l The latter would be reduced should some of the RWSAs
decide to provide the unskilled labor themselves.
/1 Assuming: (a) 2 bulldozer and 2 grader operators, 5 masons and
20 laborers for one month; and (b) 2 pipefitters and 10 laborers
for 2 months.



- 53 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
A. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
1.        Introduction.  The following represents an indication of the scope
of consulting services when inviting proposals. Actual man-months would
vary slightly depending on the consultants' offer.
2.        Objectives:
(a)  to ensure the successful implementation of the water supply and
and sanitation projects and supporting activities;
(b)  to gain further necessary planning, construction and monitoring,
operation and maintenance technologies;
(c)  to obtain necessary assistance in strengthening insitutional
building;
3.        Scope of Services:
(a)  in connection with the concerned agencies, the consultants will
provide assistance with the:
(i) identification and selection of water supply and sanitation
projects by assessing groundwater studies, clusterwise dis-
tribution, socio-economic consideration and related factors;
(ii) development of methodologies and schedules for
implementation;
(iii) supervision of projects being executed essentially during
the initial year of implementation; and
(iv) monitoring of water quality;
(b) assess additional training needs and extend assistance in the
execution of training programs for engineers and other technical
staff, and that of the Rural Waterworks and Sanitation
Associations;



_ 54 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 2
(c)  evaluate existing operation and maintenance practices of water
supply systems, toilets and stabilization ponds, and develop
recommendations to improve such practices;
(d)  review institution building programs and provide recommendations
to improve the programs;
(e)  conduct and/or monitor financial studies to be undertaken during
the first year of operation;
(f)  participate in Project Implementation Review Committee (PIRC)
meetings, provide technical inputs and prepare special reports
for PIRC.
(g)  cover the following professional services in connection with the
establishment of stabilization pond treatment facilities:
(i) undertake the prefeasibility studies of proposed sewer
and waste water treatment facilities;
(ii) prepare the feasibility study of the proposed low cost sewer
system to include a detailed map of project site (scale:
1:500 or appropriate) and listed information on the survey,
slope and soil conditions, bearing capacity, flood level,
storm water/rainfall run-off data, conditions of existing and
category of road networks and planned access roads, service
line for electricity and other utilities, means of water
supply and waste disposal facilities, existing households/
buildings (use, height, material, condition) and planned
major development.
(iii) prepare preliminary designs of proposed sewer facility and
stabilization pond waste water treatment facility;
(iv) incorporate comments received from Project Management Staff
and finalize the plans, working drawing and details of
appurtenant structures; detailed cost plan with a descrip-
tion of the construction materials, construction methods;
(v) prepare a manual on operation and maintenance of completed
facilities including evaluation of the performance of the
pond, and related costs and proposed scheme/s to make the
facility financially viable to cover required operation
and maintenance cost plus future expansion of the system
when required;
(vi) determine the use of the pond and its effluent for crop
irrigation and for other beneficial uses.



- 55 -                                  ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.        Outputs Expected
(a) inception report;
(b) brief monthly report concerning the progress of work or
accomplishments;
(c) report containing list of project sites and rationale or basis
of selection including an assessment of groundwater studies;
(d) report on the methodologies and scheduling for implementation;
(e) completiion report of findings and recommendations about the
consultant's supervisory activity on projects being implemented,
covering a period of 12 months;
(f) report on additional training needs and training programs to
be executed;
(g) report evaluating the operation and maintenance practices of
water supply systems, toilets and stabilization pond;
(h) report containing findings and recommendations concerning
institution building;
(i) report on financial management studies;
(j) special report for the Project Implementation Review Committee
regarding technical inputs;
(k) attendance in meetings and conferences;
(1) system for regular reporting on the status of completed projects
for certifying disbursement;
(m)  feasibility studies of proposed waste water treatment facilities,
and cost recovery;
(n) designs of proposed sewer facilities and stabilization pond
waste water treatment facility; and
(o) manual on operation and maintenance of completed facilities.
5.        Minimum Experts Required and Man-Months
In the implementation of the above activities, the hereunder
minimum experts are necessary.



ANNEX 2
- 56                                   Page 4
Ai/an-Months
Expatriate    Local   Total
1.  Civil engineer                        15           30     45
2.  Sanitary engineer                     15           30     45
3.  Hydrologist/Hydrogeologist            12           12     24
4.  Chemist/Chemical Engineet/Water        7           14     21
Quality Technician
5.  Well Driller                           6           12     18
6.  Accountant                             -           12     12
7.  Sociologist                                         6      6
8.  Training specialist                    -            9      9
Total                                55          125    180
6.        Time Schedule.  The minimum period for consultancy services shall
be twelve (12) months but not more than eighteen (18) months.
7.        Research and Development.  By applying research and development
(R&D) for the project, it is expected that the resources, i.e., materials,
equipment, manpower, money and technology will be optimally used at the
least cost possible and with the desired quality or strength.
8.        The objectives of applying R&D in the project are:
(a)  to improve further the effectiveness and efficiency of casing,
drop and distribution pipes, fittings, pumps and the like, as
well as the technologies applied in construction;
(b) to evaluate/monitor the applicability of new materials, equipment
and technology; and
(c)  to advise on the design, operation and maintenance of small-bore
low cost sewer system.
(d)  making special studies and reports for the handpump and well
screen testing programs.
9.        The general activities for this undertaking are as follows:
(a) preparation of research design; (b) field test research tools to be
applied; (c) evaluate results of the tests; (d) re-align research design,
if necessary; (e) field demonstration; (f) collection of data; (g) data



57 -ANNEX 2
Page 5
analysis and interpretation; (h) preparation of report to include findings
and recommendations; and (i) submission of reports for management consider-
ation. Since this is a specialized activity, individual consultants would
be hired as needed, up to a total of 5 foreign and 12 local man-months.
B. High Priority Drainage and Flood Control Needs of Metro Manila
10.       MPWH is about to begin an update of the Manila Flood Control
Master Plan. There are however five areas in the city which require action
to give immediate relief to the residents. The five areas are described
below:
(a) Malabon Drainage. Municipality of Malabon particularly the
areas adjacent to the Malabon River with a drainage area of
192 ha. Causes of flooding are overbank flows of the Malabon
River aggravated by the reclamation of Dagat-Dagatan Lagoon
which formerly served as an impounding basin for the Malabon-
Tullahan River discharge and inadequacy of a system for the dis-
posal of local storm run-off. Approximate flooded area is 15 ha.
Studies by the MPWH point to the need for an embankment along
the Malabon River from its junction with the Bangkulasi River
to Tinejeros, flood pumps to ensure the drainage of low walled-
in areas and the provision of storm drains for local strom
discharge.
(b) Drainage of Area East of Mangahan Floodway. Low areas within the
catchment of Sapang Buli, Ilog Cainta and Mahabang Sapa in the
municipality of Cainta and Taytay which discharge to the Laguna
Lake will be cut off by the construction of the Mangahan Floodway.
The creeks have a total drainage area of 74 sq km at their
intersections with the Mangahan Floodway. This area is subject
to inundation even under natural conditions (without the
Mangahan Floodway) owing principally to the inadequate carrying
capacity of the main drainageways. Approximate flooded area is
400 ha. Improvement and diversion of the channels of Sapang
Buli to Ilog Cainta, channel improvement of Ilog Cainta and
Mahabang Sapa and pumping station at Ilog Cainta is proposed.
(c) Marikina River - Upstream of Rosario Weir. The 7.5 km stretch of
the Marikina River from the inlet of the Mangahan Floodway at
Rosario Weir to San Mateo. Flooding is caused by overflow of
the Marikina River. Approximate flooded area is 375 hectares.
The long term solution is the construction of river walls along
both banks with an aggregate length of 15 km.



- 58 -                                ANNEX 2
-                       ~~~~~~~Page 6
(d)  Talayan Drainage.  The 760 hectares Talayan creek catchment in
Quezon City. The Talayan Creek is a branch of the San Juan
River, a major tributary of the Pasig River. The Talayan area
is an exceptionally low-lying section of Quezon City which
development had been greatly hampered by perennial flooding
caused by excessive local strom run-off and overflows of the
San Juan River. Approximate flooded area is 300 hectares.
Augmenting the discharging capacity of the Talayan Creek through
channel widening and deepening and construction of drainage
mains for the conveyance of local storm run-off is proposed.
(e)  San Juan Drainage.  The downstream areas adjacent to the left
bank of the San Juan River covered by the Buhangin Creek and
Maytunas Creek with a drainage area of 450 ha, all within the
municipality of San Juan. Flooding caused by bank overflow of
the San Juan River and excessive local storm run-off. Approxi-
mate flooded area is 400 ha. Construction of about 2.5 km of
river walls along the left bank of Buhangin Creek and Maytunas
Creek, the installatioin of flood control pumps at the mouths of
those creeks and provision of adequate drainage facilities for
local storm run-off is proposed.
Assignment                                 Local            Foreign
man-months        man-months
MPWH   Consultant    Consultant
Project Manager                            18         18             15
Asst. Project Manager                      18         18
hydrologist (2)                            12         10             15
Flood Control & Drainage Engineer (2)    6           26              15
Hydraulic Engineer (2)                      6         15             15
Structural Engineer (2)                     6         15             14
Mechanical Engineer                         6          6              2
Electrical Engineer                         6          6              2
Cost Estimating Engineer (2)                -        24
Geologist                                   -          6              2
Geodetic Engineer                           -          6
Civil Engineer (2)                         22        22
Economist                                   -          8
Financial Analyst                           -         10              2
Tender Document Specialist                  -         10              2
Total                               100        200             84



59-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 7
10.       The above estimates of consultant services is based upon
experience by MPWH in similar projects carried out in Metropolitan Manila.
C. Solid Wastes Management
11.       The Metro Manila Solid Wastes Management Master Plan is nearing
completion and requires to proceed urgently to detailed design. Preliminary
reports from the expert review panel are that the project will have three
basic design components: land fills, transfer stations and a small
composting plant./l There would also be a large institutional component.
Based upon similar infrastructure projects it is estimated that about
55 foreign consulting man-months and 200 local consulting man-months at a
total cost of $2.2 million would be required. The terms of reference for
these services are now under preparation and would be reviewed by the expert
review panel. This project is needed to complement ongoing investments in
sewerage, sanitation and drainage in Metro Manila.
/1 The expert review panel is financed by the UNDP. The Bank is the
executing agency.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      Total
Physical targets - Nos
Rural Water Supply
Level I Systems
Rehabilitated wells                                         300       600    1,000    1,000                2,900
New shallow wells                                           500    1,000    1,500    1,500                  4,500
New deep wells                                              200       500       800       800               2,300
Other point sources for Level I systems /a                    -        20        40        40                 100
Contingency provision /b                                      -        50       100        50                 200
Total Level I systems                                   1,000    2,170    3,440    3,390                10,000
Source Development for Level II Systems
Infiltration galleries                                                 10        10                            20
Springs                                                                60        60                           120
Deep wells                                                            130       130                           260
Total Source Development for Level 11 Systems                       200       200                           400
Reticulation systems for Level II systems                                       200       200                 400
Maintenance workshops                                                   4         4         4                  12
Rural Sanitation
Stabilization ponds                                                     4         4         4                  12
Household toilets                                       50,000  150,000  200,000  200,000  150,000  750,000
Wells and springs disinfected                                 -  200,000  200,000  200,000  200,000  800,000
Investments targets - US$ and %
Total rural water investments:
US$ million                                                 2.3       5.0       8.2       7.6       4.2      27.3
Percentage                                                    8        18        30        28        16       100
Total rural sanitation investments:
US$ million                                                 1.4       4.9       8.0       6.0       4.7      25.0
Percentage                                                    6        20        32        24        18       100
Total investment in rural water and sanitation:
US$ million                                                 3.7       9.9      16.2      13.6       8.9      52.3
Percentage                                                    7        19        31        26        17       100
/a Springs, surface water, infiltration galleries.
/b Allowance for dry holes or poor water quality.



_ 61M-EX
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATERWORXS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
INCOME STATEMENT
(PESOS MILLION)
1980     1911      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986    1957      1988      1959     1990
FISCAL YEAR ENDING           10 MONTHS ESTIMATED
DECEMBER 31                   AUDITED                -------------------------------PROJECTIONS----------------------------------
INCOME
INTEREST EARNED LEVEL II       0.60      1.00     0.25      0.71      1.31     2.17      3.27     4.37      5.47      6.63     7.15
INTEREST EARNED LEVEL III      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.14     1.40      3.45     6.47    10.35    14.26    15.17
SUB-TOTAL                       0.60     1.00      0.28     0.71      1.45     3.56      6.71    10.14    15.82    20.81    26.03
LESS: DOUBTFUL DEBTS           0.00      0.00      0.03     0.07      0.14     0.36      0.67      1.08     1.58      2.09     2.60
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--------------------
TOTAL INCOME                   0.60      1.00      0.25     0.64      1.30     3.21      6.04      9.76    14.23    15.50    23.42
EXPENDITURES
PERSONNEL                      0.39      2.60     3.60      3.96      4.36     4.15      5.39     5.99      6.66      7.40     8.23
OPERATIONS                     0.42      1.05      2.00     2.20      2.42     2.69      2.99      3.32     3.69      4.10     4.56
COLLECTION FEE                 0.00      0.00     0.05      0.13      0.23     0.70      1.31     2.13      3.09      4.09     5.05
TOTAL EXPENDITURE              0.81      3.65      5.65     6.29      7.06     8.24      9.69    11.44    13.44    15.59    17.57
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------------------
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS (t3         -0.21    -2.65    -5.40    -5.65    -5.76    -5.03    -3.65    -1.68          0.79      3.21     5.55
DEPRECIATION                   0.05      0.34      0.36     0.44      0.56     0.74      0.96      1.22     1.50      1.80     2.13
- - 0.2 --- - 2.9 __-   5. __________ - 6.09- _ - 6.3 __________________________________-5--2 - 0.71------ 1.41--
NET INCOME (txt LOSS (          -0.26    -2.S9    -5.76    -6.09    -6.32    -5.77    -4.61    -2.90    -0.71           1.41     3.42



-  62  -                                       A.NNEX 5
PHILIPFINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATERVORKS DEVELOPMENT COIPORATIOK
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(PESOS MILLION)
1980      1911      1982       1983      1984      1985       1986    187       1988       1989      1990
FISCAL YEAR ENDING              10 MONTHS ESTIMATED
DECEMBER 31                      AUDITED                 -------------------------------PROJECTIONS ---------------------------------
SOURCES
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION         -0.21     -2.65    -5.40       -5.65     -5.76    -5.03       -3.65     -1.68       0.79      3.21       5.55
GRANTS FOR OPERATION                0.00       1.50      3.00      6.00       6.00      6.00      6.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.08
PROJECT FINANCING:
GOVERMENT EQUITY (OTHER)            0.00       0.00      2.08     17.04      13.23     14.6l     14.31       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
GOY. GRANTS (LEV.I SYSTEMS)         0.00       0.00      4.85    39.75       30.87    34.08      33.39       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00       0.00      0.77      6.31       4.90      5.41      5.30       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.e0
SUBTOTAL                            0.00       0.00      7.70    63.10       49.00     54.10    53.00        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER PROJECTS:
GOVERMENT EQUITY                   12.00       4.50      3.24      0.00       5.27     43.06     39.60      87.17     82.31    101.67      95.94
COV. GRANTS (LEV.I SYSTEMS)         0.00      24.00     17.46      0.00       2.84     23.18    21.33       46.94    44.32      54.75      51.66
CONSUKER CONTRIBUTIONS              0.00       0.00      2.30      0.00       0.90      7.36      6.77      14.90     14.07     17.38      16.40
SUBTOTAL                           12.00      28.50    23.00       0.00       9.00     73.60     47.70   149.00   140.70   173.80   l64.00
AMORTIZATION:
LEVEL II SYSTEMS                    0.00       0.00      0.30      0.76       1.37      2.28      3.40       4.53      5.65      6.86       8.10
LEVEL III SYSTEMS                   0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.16      1.60      3.74       7.06     11.10     15.26      19.34
-- - -  - - --  - - -  - - --  - - -  ---------   -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - -    - - - -  ---------   --  - - -
SUBTOTAL                            0.00       0.00      0.30      0.76       1.53      3.88      7.14      11.59     16.75     22.11    27.44
TOTAL SOURCES                      11.79      27.35     28.60     64.21    59.78   132.55   130.19    158.91   158.25   199.12   196.99
APPLICATIONS
PROJECT COST - LEVEL I              0.00      0.00       5.39     44.17    34.30    37.87    37.10           0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
- LEVEL 11           0.00       0.00      2.31    l1.93       14.70     l6.23     Is.90       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.0.
SUBTOTAL           0.00      0.00       7.70    63.10      49.00    54.10    53.00         0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
OTHER PROJECTS:
- LEVEL I            0.00     24.00      19.40      0.00       3.15     25.76     23.70      52.15     49.25    60.83       57.40
- LEVEL II           0.00       4.50      3.60      0.00       2.25     18.40     16.93      37.25    35.18    43.45        41.01
- LEVEL III          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       3.60     29.44     27.08    59.60       56.28     69.52    65.60
SUBTOTAL           0.00    28.50      23.00       0.00      9.00      73.60     67.70   149.00   140.70   173.80   164.00
EGUIPMENT                           0.85       2.50      0.50      1.00       1.50      2.00      2.50       2.70      2.92      3.15      3.40
CASH INCREASE (+)                  10.15     -5.26      -0.20      0.11       0.28      2.85      6.99       7.21     14.63     22.17     29.59
INCREASE (+) OTHER ASSETS           0.79       1.61    -2.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 11.79      27.35     28.60     64.21    59.71   132.55   130.19    158.91   158.25   199.12   196.99
===22========2:=:==:::::=:==::z:::z23z:s::::z::2:z::2===:~:::::2::......:                  =====



_ 63 -
ANEX 6
PHILIPPINES
fIRST WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT COIPORATION
EALANCE SHEET
(PESOS MILLION)
1S80      1981      1982      1983      1984     I185        1986     1987      1988     18t       1990
FISCAL YEAR ENDING             10 MONTHS ESTIMATED
DECEMBER 31                     AUDITED                 -------------------------------PROJECTIONS ---------------------------------
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS                        0.15      3.35      3.15      4.15      6.35       8.35     10.85     13.55     16.47    19.62    23.02
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION            0.05      0.39      0.75      1.19       1.75      2.48      3.44      4.66      6.16      7.96      10.18
NET FIXED ASSETS                    0.80      2.96      3.10      3.67       4.61      5.87      7.41      8.39     10.31      11.65     12.91
CASH                               10.15      4.89      4.69      4.80      5.07       7.12     14.91     22.11    36.74    58.91    88.50
LOANS TO RVSAS - LEVEL ll           0.00      4.50      9.52    25.80    39.68       68.57      94.71   123.70   149.71  I1l.96   210.76
- LEVEL III        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.08    27.S7    48.61    95.19   134.74   182.06   221.76
- SUBTOTAL         0.00      4.50      9.52    25.80    42.76       96.54   143.32   218.90   284.45   364.01   432.52
OTHER ASSETS                        0.79      2.40      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
TOTAL ASSETS                       11.74    14.75    17.31    34.26    52.44   110.33   165.64   249.90   331.50   434.58   533.94
LIABILITIES
CAPITAL                            12.00     16.50    21.32    38.86    57.35   115.01   168.93   256.09   338.40   440.08   536.02
ACCUMULATED SURPLUS               -0.26    -1.75    -4.51    -4.60    -4.91    -4.68            -3.29    -6.20    -6.90    -5.50    -2.01
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  11.74    14.75      17.31    34.26    52.44   110.33   165.64   249.90   331.50   434.58   533.94



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Assumptions used in the Financial Projections for the
Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
Income Statement
1.        Income is earned in the form of interest on loans by RWDC to RWSAs
for the construction of Level II and Level III water supply works. The
interest rate for Level II works is 47% per annum, and for Level III works has
been assumed to amount to 9W  per annum.
2.        Collection efficiency is assumed at 90a  of total interest
receivable.
3.        Expenditure on Personnel and Operations is projected on the basis
of the approved RWDC budget for 1982, and assumes a growth of 2  per annum
during 1983 and 1984 and 3%/ per annum thereafter. Inflation has been assumed
at a rate of 8% per annum.
4.        A collection fee of 10% on interest collected is deemed to be
payable by RWDC to Electricity Cooperatives which collect loan repayments
from RWSAs on RWDC's behalf.
5.        Depreciation of equipment used by RWDC is based on an average asset
life of 10 years, and therefore amounts to 1/% per annum.
Cash Flow Statement
6.        As provided in RWDC's enabling legislation, Government grants are
assumed to be made available for the institutional development of RWDC. Such
annual grants will no longer be required when the income earned from loans
for Level II and Level III water supply works is sufficient to cover cash
operating expenditures.
7.        Project financing is deemed to come in the form of Government loans
of up to a maximum of 90t of the project cost, and consumer contributions
have been assumed to amount to 10% of project cost.
8.        Loans by RWDC to RWSAs are amortized over 20 years including a
grace period of one year.
9.        In projecting the level of operations of RWDC it has been assumed
that it will start each second year an additional project similar in size
to the first Bank-assisted project.



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
Balance Sheet
10.       Fixed assets in the Balance Sheet cover only those items used by
RWDC in its operations. Fixed assets in the form of completed water supply
schemes are handed over to RWSAs.
11.       No specific assumption has been made in respect to the accumulated
increases in the cash balance of RWDC beyond 1985. These cash surpluses
could be used either to self-finance part of future development or be
repaid to the Government to offset earlier Government grants to RWDC for
institutional development.
Other
12.       The sanitation component of the project is implemented by the
Ministry of Health, and the Level I water supply works are implemented by
MPWH, and hence these works are not reflected in the financial statements of
the Rural Waterworks Development Corporation.



-66-                                ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies on the Sector
1.        Philippines - Water Supply and Sewerage Study Report (2 Volumes)
World Health Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program - January 1977.
2.        Philippines - Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study Report
(1 Volume) World Health Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program - April
1982.
3.        Philippines - 1980 Census Population.
B. Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.        Philippines - Integrated Water Supply Program 1980-2000.
2.        Philippines - Draft Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master Plan
(2 Volumes).
3.        Rural Water Supply Design Manual.  Volume 1.
4.        Rural Water Supply.  Construction and Installation Manual.
Volume II.
5.        Rural Water Supply.  Operation and Maintenance Manual.  Volume III.
6.        Groundwater of the Philippines.
C. Selected Working Papers
1.        Papers prepared by RWDC:
(a) RWDC Progress Report, March 31, 1982.
(b) Bid Documents for the Delivery of Pipes, Fittings and Pumps
(2 Volumes).
(c) An Analysis of the Water Supply Situation in the Municipality
of Pandi, Bulacan.



-67 -                                ANNEX 8
Page 2
(d) Rural Water Supply - Socioeconomic Aspects.
(e) Philippines - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program.
Proposal for a Coordinated Training System.
(f) National Government Accounting System - Consultant, Commission
on Audit.
(g) Compilation of Issuance on Foreign Assisted Projects.
(h) Guidelines and Procedures for Warehousing and Shipping of
Water Supply Materials.
(i) Implementation of Contract of Agency Between the Electric
Cooperative and RWDC.
(j) RWA Accounting Manual.
(k) Contract of Loan RWDC/RWA.
2.        Papers prepared by MPWH:
(a) Prequalification Documents for Supply and Delivery of Equipment
and Vehicles.
(b) Contract Documents for Supply and Delivery of Equipment and
Vehicles.
(c) Consultants' Terms of Reference.
(d) Design of Maintenance Workshop
(e) Survey and Design Manual
(f) Implementation Plan - Rural Water Supply
3.        Papers prepared by Bank staff:
(a)  Design Criteria on Pourflush Waterseal Latrines
(b) First Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project Training Program -
June 1982.
(c) Philippines - Vocational Training Project - March 1982.
(d) Financial Working Papers.



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD M
OF DIRECTARS
BOARD
SECRETARIAT
GENERAL MANAGER
ASSISTANT
GENERAL MANAGER
'I
I-                                              II
MANAGEMENT|l 
|   STAFF    l                              | LEGAL STAFF
ENGINEERING                     ADMINISTRATION AND                                OPERATIONS
DEPARTMENT                      FINANCE DEPARTMENT                                DEPARTMENT
ENGINEERING       MAT ERIALS      ADMINISTRATION        FINANCE        HUMAN RESOURCE        PROJECT       FRANCHISES AND
DIVISION         DIVISION           DIVISION          DIVISJON    l   DEVELOPMENT        MANAGEMENT        REGULATION
DIVIO  DDIVISION         DIVISION          DIVISION
VVo,Id Bank 23633



- 69 _
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SHALLOW WELL WITH HANDPUMP
CAST IRON
HANDPUMP
1 ."O G.I. NIPPLE THREADED BOTH ENDS
2"OX VA" e G.1. REDUCER
4'0 CONCRETE PLATFORM
2" 0 X 2.00 M. SHORT G.1. PIPE THREADED
BOTH ENDS
2" 0 PVC PIPE
x
WVATE R TAEBL E      |
2"0PVC COUPLING,
THREADED ONE END
2" 0 PVC SCREEN
(APPROX. 5'-0" TO 10'-0" LENGTH)
2" 0 PVC SHORT PIPE
World Bank-23717



- 70 -
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
POUR FLUSH TOILET
3.
USE AVAILABLE LOCAL
MAERIALS FOR ROOFING:r.
SLATS
PLAN
_    3'' X 3'' POST                        ~PA
.    DOOR PANELS
3' X 3' POST
EARTH FILL
TOILET BOWL       "    SIDING
H   OTREST
I F F O U NDO j       C J's
NECESSARY-                                   -TIMBER OR BAMBOO SLATS
FOR REINFORCEMENT
2'-6'
o                                            L S      COULD BE LINED WITH BAMBOOS,
o                                .^            ] 8    WOOD, DRUMS, OR CLAY RINGS
C_
World Bank 23718



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT FLOW CHART
Pr   S ochnIcalAeietence                 r        lt
.rc F-sibil ty Study              ..d Esebiiy Stuy              dmniereio
Engieerig Deign,     Engineerin,g Design,                                                 EnieeigDein
R-cicv/Sutv...isio           Reoe,ir/Supenyii-                                                   Reve/Sprvso
As. stnc            Asstnc
n   MWSS        _Adn LWUA
introstrunturs  I ntreetrootvre  I                                   PunS~~~~~~Ii,,g Jsoer MPVc
Dcerstinn end              CW    etc,                           -M ECPundeo   PrO ject
Co I ectiAon                 RW.
Moninor,nu            jotn Coloonion                  Suen"    i                            t                                                                   I
1~~~~~~~~~4 NEA,MLG,MHS
Rn v  C      --iiC  -  |ia W erwnoru DvicOnren, Coro -                             Cn -Ir     -  Gn
M|SS    M- Meynlt-on W-r-krccorkSyond      ,r,n                                     M-b-  -    dload   n        |the toi g F*iid Otioc. r
L|UA  -   og MWSS     Ur|Fkn ing     AdminiFnrngiOn                                           MPW iDED.. MLGCD. MHD MOH. FSOC. MEC
NEA    -  Nttoroi .tncr,tjr ion A        e                                                     Mengtu r ot .  , -  Eetr-- Cnop.
MPAH     M~initry ft Pubic Worneond H,gh.WOy                                                   Meoero W.-o D-ieni
MLG      _ Ministry yt Loot Dornmn                                                            Ch--me  ft KtEbts-g Bareng.y
MOH   -  Minisnry on H-meth                                                                   Chairme  of A... f Bgy. Ogpt.oIn
EC       E- icric Coop-rei,                                                       11 Tn ne thenyd int Rur  W.ter end EneinAsc ieon in ho tutr-
PO         Proiei1 Engineer Office.
PWWC       Nroc'inci ..        , Wat,r  C - n
RWA   -  Itu,Wen.tr,A       ietn,, nY.dBk 23683
j    Op ratlo  and    t    2   WUA  nd RWD    8 {    f ctNEA  MLC MH, |    |    | -  contructcn ef MPW  [*-  - f  CnsEr_ctzon iWorld S  nkm23883



PHILIPPINES
FIRST RURAL VIATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITY BAR CHART
IBRD FY83                      IBRD FY84           j          IRD FY85                       18RD FY 86           i         IBRDF8
ACTIVIIY                   J-- A      E- H A;                                                              -   JFMAM   ASON[JF M A  M              |||||||||  SONDJFMAM 
R seoif ess Committee tuieetii _
RWSA Formation               -~i-IS INIDI fT-.s  I ITA                                                                     jr  1. 11 11 |  I-I I: I   =
cIuplementl-  f Mi,t.l P
Dinft Di-umn Repit                                 m
WMautnuturig an  Delicer 
APreliminay aGd Dtaile  EniEern
LX ecel:      ~   
Stabfiligaof Ponds (,,t M-119 |F       |a Oger-tir OM_iF ; 
LeuO MPI
Toilet C-estrute~Miri
CWsuterOahcy Servceias.|                                                                                        |
Bid Adve,tatis--t (on bim~
LBid Ript
Worsho  ConstrutionarOerto
Research ian    adeveu,inen
E,ri.-mij
Operation and MatintdEnance    ,,,
Tahilnoe C-un-oi
RVVSA F-ati.n                                                                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wci non   3P



PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONl
! AND REVIEW COMMITTEE l
|POECT MANAGEMENTOFFICE|
1    1             |    ~~~~~~(PROJECT MANAGER) 
NATIONAL TECHNICAL
COMMITTEE
PLHANNHINGRANDTRUCTURPENT                      ADMINIS TRATIVE     ||CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT|
(DEPUTY PROJIECT MANAGER)                 ( ADMINSTRTIV VSOFFCR                    (DPT PRJC MANAGER) 
r  ELTH INFRASTRUCTURE                        ACCOUNTING       l                  CONSTRUCTIONCOTLX
IUN ITlXUNIT                                                               lXU NI Tl
l   RURAL        l                      REODl                             COSRCINEAUTN/
SNTTION PROJECT !|                                                             MNTRN 
J       PROGRAMMIG        1_UI
UN IT
2      PERSO NNE L     |
_  TRAINING RESEARCH l
UNIT                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-23634






1;6'    CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                     120'                                                    124'                                                    128'
BY GEOGRAPHICAL  REGIONS                                                                                          PHILIPPINES
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION                                                                                       FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY
I ILOCOS                VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                        9FRT UALW                                                    ERSP Y
I Ihloos Norte    37 Akin                                                                                 AND SANITATION PROJECT
2  Abra                   38 Capiz
20'     3  llloaos Sur            39 Antique                                            8                                                                                           20'
4  Mountain              40  Iloilo                                                                                    Regional boundaries
S  La Union               41 Negros Occidental                                                                         Provincial boundaries
6   Banguet           VIICENTRAL VISAYAS                                          '                                     Provinces with waste stabilization ponds
7  Pangasinan            42  Cebv                                                                           L/%LCL
CAGAYAN VALLEY           43  Negros Oriental
8   Batanes              44  Boaol                                     9                                               Ra nIall (Typel
9  Cagasyan              45  Siquijor                                            P7 A                             7 .    Type A Wet- Rainy throughout the year
10  Kalingo-ApaYao                                                                                          [    -J          with at most 1.5 dry months
VIIIEASTERN V ISAYAS                                                                                  Qo<0-143
11  Isahela               46  NSmor                                             thern Samnr                   -7          Type B, Humid- Rain evenly distributed throughout
12  Ifugao                47  Sower                              II
13  Nueva Viscaye         48EsenSaefI he year with at most 3 dry months
48  E.stem Samo,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.333 nO>  0.143
14  OuirFno               49  Leyrte
TIm CENTRAL LUZON            50  Southern Leyte                    /                                                         Type C, Moist- Rain sufficiently distributed with
15  Noava En                    2'                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at most 4-5 dry months
16  Tarlac              DE WESTERN MINDANAO2 
17  Zomboles              51  Zamb o.ga del Norte                            I0600 E Q   0 333
18  Pampanga               52 Zamboanga del Sur                                                                           Type D, Dry - Rain not sufficiently distributed
19  Bulaoan               53  Besilo, I                          '\4                f                        L     z         with at most 6 dry months
20   Bot-an                54  Sulu                                                                                           l n  00s z 0   0-600
TV  SOUTHERN TAGALOG  55  Tw,tami                                         /   -                                |-            Type E, Arid - More dry than wet months, at most
21  Ouezon               XNORTHERN MINDANAO                           '23       .                              z     i        there are 4-5 wet months
22   Rizol                 56  Surigaodel Nurse                   f          14                                               1.670   Q- 1.00
16'   23   Cavity gu                                                                                                             Type E, Barren - Deficient rainfall with less       16'
24   Loguna                58  Aguson del Norte                       15
25   Rombatnga59  Misamis Oriental NAO                                                                                        than 3 wet months
25   Batawong              63   Sarmis Ode                                                                                       > - 16. 70
26   Marinduqtue           60  Mavas OnNtdessat
27   Mind-arOrientel       61  Bukidnan                    16    E-= 
62  Agun delSur      7,j                                                                 Note, Nueher oF dry mon-ths 
28   Mind-ro-nedental  62Auo   elSrN O                      'Y   1 s'                                                            Nuwbor ot wet month
29   Romblon            X[SOUTHERN MINDANAC,
30   Palawen               63  Sortgao del Sur          \                   2~1     2ore   onoo  ol
Y  BICOL                    64  Devaon Oriental               Nr>2Note: 400 communal faucet water supply systems
31  Comarines Nurse       65  Davao                           Manila                                                             and 10,000 wells are provided throughout
32   Cowrarines Sur       66  Davao de,l S-r         /4  1.2        23-   >
33  Catonduanes            67  South C.fabatohats                  -"lF4i/                                                       the country
34  Alboy              XUCENTRAL MINDANO                                     -",                  \ 4t              >
35   Sorsagon              68  Laneo del Norte                       r                 <                            if\
36  Mashate               69  Loeeo del Ser                       3       ~        -/-2-
70  North Cotahato                    5'\                       t           ,7t~,.                 if   P/I 
71  Magutndanao                        N   27                   N                                                          -
72  Sultan Kodarat             I      > "i        (                      -      \ a
ara               <~28  !             Sssi8&NS s     >       -7 
Kiloenters 0          too          200           300                          -'                           ' ! 36              46
12'    Miles 0                    1t0                  200                         .                                                                                                 12'
-121~~~~~~~~>
-5>>   '    -'<A   5/              A         / 22   C  f'
, '2-n     o 11'                  X             ;X/   /
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8"
2                     l             / u            g/ gt 44   ;    ~~~~~ ~~? - -
-30
CHIN5
, 62 ,
CHI NA    ,jO'7
r 'PHILIPPINES                                                                       V..
ACgAUii                         '>. -(rZ   ' Z FEE                            SEA
BRUNEI ,N                                                     \
MALAYSA SThi .hmap ha bee prepared by the Worldectans steff e-olsioely frb ehveOoewve                                                                                                  w  -
of the red.er of the rport to wh,oC it . uttaohed. The de-wrai-v- sod-ndth
2                                         1                                          t voondarieo oho vn 00 thw map do nor <msph' wt tOe part orhe  mAna WorlPt sed and t-he P    r,p
afIftiotaso amy jsdgme-t an the legal stao of any territory or any endorsewent or  o
I                                                                                                                                                               '  0-  1 b-d-i-
120'                                                        124'



