Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-338B3-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO 35.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
September 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0      =  P 8.30
P 1.00      =  US$0.12
P 1 million = US$120,480
P 1 billion = US$120 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      =  Asian Development Bank
LWUA     =  Local Water Utilities Administration
MHS      =  Ministry of Human Settlements
MLG      =  Ministry of Local Government
MOH      =  Ministry of Health
MPWH     =  Ministry of Public Works and Highways
NEA      =  National Electrification Administration
PIRC     =  Project Implementation and Review Committee
RWDC     =  Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
RWA      =  Rural Waterworks Association
RWSA     =  Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Association
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 to December 31
RWDC:        January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:    The Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC)
Amount:          $35.5 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
Relending        The equivalent of $5.0 million of the loan proceeds would be
Terms:         relent by the Government to RWDC for 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 4% per annum. RWDC would
pay a front-end fee of 1.5%, and a commitment charge of
0.75% on the undisbursed balance of the relent amount. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk for the entire
Bank loan. The relending rate is subsidized to support provi-
sion of a basic need, safe drinking water, for the low income
rural population.
Project          The proposed project-s major objectives are the development
Description:  and mobilization of local resources and the strengthening of
local institutions responsible for the rural water supply and
sanitation sector through financing part of the Government's
rural water supply and sanitation program. The project-s
rural water supply component provides for about 10,000
protected wells with pumps and 400 communal faucet systems
benefitting about 1.5 and 0.2 million persons, respectively.
The rural sanitation component provides for sanitary disposal
of excreta for some 750,000 rural households (4.5 million
persons) and is supported with health education and water
quality surveillance. The project also includes research,
training, and consulting services for rural water supply and
sanitation works. Technical assistance is also provided for
the preparation of high priority flood control, drainage and
solid wastes management projects.
The project's main risks are the limited experience of RWDC,
which would mainly be responsible for the rural water supply
component, and the Ministry of Health (MOH), which would be
responsible for the sanitation component, with implementing
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
a project of this magnitude and complexity, as well as the
possibility of low community acceptance of the sanitation
component. Consulting services, health education and training,
provided for under the project, should help to lessen these
risks. Also, the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH),
which would be the implementing agency for the construction of
wells and the development of water sources under the project,
has extensive experience in this type of undertaking.
Estimated Cost:/l
Local     Foreign      Total
- ($ million) ------
Rural water supply                  6.1       12.5         18.6
Rural sanitation                   15.4         4.0        19.4
Technical assistance and            1.4        1.1          2.5
training
Preparation of future              3.6         2.0          5.6
projects
Base Cost                         26.5        19.6         46.1
Physical contingencies             2.3         1.8          4.1
Price contingencies                 4.4        3.3          7.7
Total Project Cost              33.2        24.7         57.9
Front-end fee on Bank
loan                             -           0.5          0.5
Total financing required          33.2        25.2         58.4
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
…-    ( $ million) -------
Bank loan                         10.3        25.2         35.5
Government                        20.9         -           20.9
Local communities                  2.0         -            2.0
Total                             33.2        25.2         58.4
/1 Excluding identifiable duties and taxes.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                    Bank FY
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
---- ($ million) ----------
Annual           2.0    7.2   11.2    9.0    6.1
Cumulative       2.0    9.2   20.4   29.4   35.5
Rate of
Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 3866-PH dated August 25, 1982
Map:             IBRD 16245



I
;a 



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $35.5 million to
help finance a rural water supply and sanitation project. The loan would be
repaid over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum. The equivalent of $5.0 million of the loan proceeds would be relent
by the Government to the Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC) for
20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 4C per annum, to install 400 com-
munal faucet systems. RWDC would also pay a front-end fee of 1.5%, and a
commitment charge of 0.75% on the undisbursed balance of the relent amount.
The equivalent of $14.7 million and $12.3 million of the loan proceeds would
be allocated by the Government to the Ministry of Public works and Highways
(MPWH) to construct and rehabilitate about 10,000 protected wells with pumps
and for water source development, and to the Ministry of Health (MOH) to
develop rural sanitation schemes, respectively. The Government would
utilize about $3.0 million of the loan proceeds for technical assistance to
prepare future drainage, flood control and solid wastes management projects.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk for the entire Bank loan.
RWDC would onlend the borrowed funds to Rural Waterworks and Sanitation
Associations (RWSAs) for 20 years, including one year of grace, at 4% per
annum to finance up to 9a/D of the communal faucet installation costs.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A special report, "Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review
and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 1, 1980 under SecM80-919. An economic report, entitled "The
Philippines: Selected Issues for the 1983-87 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 16, 1982 under SecM 82-542.
Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade.  The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 25% during this period. Half of
this increase was in the public sector; the ratio of public fixed investment
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on September 21, 1982.



-2-
to GNP rose from 1.5% to 6.5% during the decade, reflecting substantially
expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export growth was
accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while growth in
imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expansion in
agricultural production was quite rapid, and rice deficits were eliminated
in the second half of the decade. Population growth slowed in the 1970s.
However, the economy still has a number of structural problems. Most
importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low, particularly in
manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market; industrial
employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
and depressed prices for major export commodities. Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved,
primarily through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency
of investment and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives
the rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic,
social and regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the popu-
lation. The agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diver-
sification, and stronger linkages with processing industries. The indus-
trial strategy calls for promotion of export industries, development of
small- and medium-scale industries, regional dispersion of industrial
growth, increased efficiency of investment, and selected large-scale pro-
jects. The Plan includes social development targets in education, housing,
health, and family planning. In addition, the Plan outlines development
strategies for each of the country's 13 regions. A recently completed Food
and Nutrition Plan, which complements the Development Plan, aims at elimin-
ating malnutrition by 1990 through increased food production and nutrition
programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country's development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has, in 1980, adjusted the Plan
and revised the growth targets downwards. A Development Plan for 1983-87
is now under preparation.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the



- 3 -
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.5% in 1980./i
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains around 40%. Income distribution
continues to be very skewed, and a small elite is conspicuously wealthy.
Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the incidence of poverty
reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large numbers of people,
especially in the rural areas, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe
water, good sanitation, basic education and health care facilities. An
increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio, the resulting expansion of
cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment opportunities in the
industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the external terms of
trade have put downward pressure on real incomes. Although the Government
instituted several programs during the 1970s that should directly improve
the lives of the poor, most of these were implemented on a large scale only
toward the end of the decade, and will require several years to achieve a
marked impact. Key steps needed to alleviate poverty will be the
development of rainfed agriculture, more balanced regional development,
rapid expansion of manufacturing employment, continued improvement in basic
public services, and further reduction of population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of
the labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s,
the agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high
proportion of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment
stagnated in the first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly
thereafter as laborintensive export production grew. Overseas employment,
especially in the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary
income opportunity. As the absorptive capacity of the agricultural sector
is limited, employment generation in manufacturing will have to increase
considerably in the 1980s.
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



-4-
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment
rose sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and low labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive
effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation
of capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s,
the efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determin-
ants of future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the agricul-
ture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s, which is
quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a chronic
importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and rice self-
sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and non-
traditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn have been developed only
recently, while multiple cropping systems are still at an early stage of
development. Productivity in the important coconut export sector remains
low because the recently introduced program to replace overage trees has not
yet attained rapid progress. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable
land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been
logged over or settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure ques-
tions, and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the
agencies concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce poverty among subsis-
tence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.



-5-
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s led to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
over one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expan-
sion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality
of domestic inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export
industries have developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to accel-
erate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manufac-
tured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on reducing protection through tariff
reform and liberalization of import licensing as well as strengthening
export promotion. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms
that will address shortcomings in the industrial incentives and promotion
system.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the
Philippines' structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the
1973-74 oil price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort
to reduce its dependency on imported oil. The Government has not only
passed on oil price increases to consumers, but has also increased taxes
and levies on oil products with the result that domestic oil prices are
considerably above import parity. These price increases, combined with
direct conservation measures, resulted in a reduction of commercial energy
consumption in 1980 and 1981. Steps to increase and diversify domestic
energy supply have also continued and include the development of hydro-
electric, geothermal, coal, and nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum
production also began in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of
energy projects, domestic energy production still constituted only 17% of
total commercial energy consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil
crisis", the Government is accelerating its program for domestic energy
production, but further taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed
to restrain demand.



-6-
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s,
gross national savings expanded considerably, reaching 22.5% of GNP and
financing about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs
to rise by another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while
simultaneously limiting the current account deficit and the country's
reliance on foreign savings.  In addition, interest rates and other finan-
cial incentives affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment,
the flexibility and competitiveness of the financial system, and the
maturity of lending all needed to be increased.  Hence, in 1980-81 the
Government introduced a comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest
rates are being substantially decontrolled, and revised monetary, fiscal,
and rediscount policies are being introduced. Legislation to encourage
multipurpose banking has also been adopted to reduce the present excessive
specialization and fragmentation of the financial system and to increase
competition.
20.       Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government raised the over-
all level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and increased the shares going
to economic services and investment. At the end of the decade, total
government expenditures had reached 18% of GNP, with public investment
equalling 6.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures has made
possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in transporta-
tion, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban develop-
ment, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country's development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are
likely to remain tight during the 1980s, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming
from domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes
on international trade. The tax ratio was raised by three percentage points
to 13.3% of GNP during the decade, but has remained about constant in the
last few years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the
Government and government corporations, will be necessary to finance further
expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are



needed to raise the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity
by increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to
eliminate remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the
long-term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of
oil in total merchandise imports increased from 12% in the early 1970s to
30% in 1981. The current account deficit widened to $2.3 billion in 1981,
equivalent to 6% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be main-
tained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance of
payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a sustainable
level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with respect to
trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19), and
improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly
through improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy
measures will require a number of years to effect the needed structural
improvement in the balance of payments. The current account deficit,
therefore, is expected to remain in the range of $2.0-2.5 billion annually
during the first half of the 1980s, while declining in relative terms to
about 4% of GNP by the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance
the balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price
increase. During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from
medium- and longterm loans doubled to $1.2 billion in 1980 and the debt
service ratio stood at 20% in 1981. Substantial additional foreign capital
will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil price
increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will have
to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain the
strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
remain at about 20%.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 43% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consulta-
tive Group Meeting, held in June 1982, agreed that it would be reasonable
for the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about
$1.2 billion during 1983, same as the ODA commitments sought for 1982.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of March 31, 1982 the Philippines had received 78 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,967.55 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively,
by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
28.       The volume of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased
substantially from an average of about $90.0 million per year in FY71-75 to
an average of $450.0 million per year in FY78-82. Although the Bank has
financed projects in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular
emphasis has been given to agriculture, which has accounted for more than
one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been
for the transportation sector. Lending for power, industry, and social
sectors followed in declining order of size. The sectoral allocation of
Bank lending remained fairly stable throughout the 1970s. Pronounced
changes took place only within infrastructure as lending for transportation
and power declined in the second half of the 1970s, while lending for water
supply and urban development was initiated during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In
the industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improve-
ments in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981
Industrial Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept
to broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex"
unit in the Central Bank.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Vocational Training Project which was
approved by the Executive Directors on September 21, 1982.



- 9 -
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year
as compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal year)
declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./1 The
Bank-wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Morocco were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./2  Implementation
problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting in part, administrative
problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints (para. 21).
They also result from the changes in the scope of the Bank's lending
operations: a substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of
lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific
target groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a more
demanding task than in the past. The first project implementation review
was held in May 1980, at which time, among other issues, the relatively poor
disbursement performance was discussed. Steps were subsequently taken to
correct some of the administrative problems which were delaying
implementation. A second review, held in February 1982, provided a useful
follow-up and exchange of views on problems still being experienced in
project implementation. During the February review, the Government and the
Bank agreed that similar reviews would be held in future on a regular basis.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para.
5). Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation
efforts and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy.
Economic and sector work is being closely integrated with lending opera-
tions. Future project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will address
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further policy reforms in trade, industry, energy and other key sectors.
In sectoral terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account
for the largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and
programs to increase the incomes of the rural poor. Substantial assistance
will be given to industry through further subsector loans aimed at
restructuring or developing specific subsectors; through increased financial
and technical assistance to small and medium industries, particularly
outside the Metro-Manila area; and through continued industrial finance
projects utilizing the recently introduced "apex" concept. Increased
support is also planned to develop domestic energy resources and to
strengthen the institutions responsible for developing and managing energy
supplies. The Bank's support for projects in education, water supply, and
urban development, and possibly health and family planning, will aim at
improving basic services and creating employment, particularly in less
advanced areas of the country.
/1 Excludes disbursements under the first Structural Adjustment Loan. If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.
/2 Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



- 10 --
32.       This is the fourth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for rubber development, regional
cities development, and a second structural adjustment loan have been
appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation in the coming months.
PART III - THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Current Situation
33.       Water-related diseases are a serious health problem in the
Philippines. Diseases in which water and sanitation are implicated -
gastroenteritis, intestinal parasites, dysentery and diarrhea - are next in
frequency to respiratory diseases which top the list of leading diseases.
Reducing the incidence of these diseases requires a substantial improvement
of rural water supply and sanitation service levels, and is the principal
objective of the Government's recently prepared Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Master Plan.  The master plan is based upon the United Nations'
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD) targets
which calls for the universal provision of safe drinking water and proper
sanitation by 1990.
34.       As of 1980, only about 21.4 million (43%) of the total estimated
population of 49.4 million /1 in the Philippines were served by public water
supply facilities. Service in Metropolitan Manila reached some 82% of the
6.4 million population, other urban areas with a total population of 8.9
million registered a 55% coverage, whilst only 33% of the 34.1 million rural
dwellers received a safe public water supply. The targets set in the Master
Plan are that by 1990 about 37% of the rural population would be served by
piped systems with public faucets, 29% by piped systems with house
connections and 27% through protected wells. By the year 2000 these
percentages are expected to be 52%, 34% and 7%, respectively. These targets
are ambitious. In the early years of the program, annual targets are
unlikely to be achieved given institutional and funding constraints.
However, these targets provide a useful framework within which short-term
targets can be adjusted as implementation proceeds.
35.       The major source of domestic water supply in the Philippines,
particularly in the rural areas, is groundwater which is generally of accep-
table quality and is available in sufficient quantities throughout the
country. In cities with large concentrations of population, groundwater is
supplemented by surface water. However, due to poor source development and
inadequate protection of wells the water is usually unsafe for domestic use.
36.       About 28% of the approximately 7 million households in the country
have unsanitary toilets and 19%, low income families, have no toilets. These
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the data in Annex I.



- 11 -
unsanitary conditions create environmental problems such as water pollution,
contamination of food, insect and rodent infestation, and disease. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) has been promoting, with some success, the
installation of simple toilet facilities, averaging about 200,000 units per
year, for the disposal of human excreta in the rural areas. In total, it is
estimated that during the period 1982-90, some 1.5 million new sanitary
toilets would be constructed and another 2.5 million rehabilitated.
Sector Organization
37.       As of 1980, the Philippines had 1,531 cities and municipalities
containing 39,107 barangays (smallest political unit). The institutional
responsibilities for providing water supplies are shared between three prin-
cipal agencies: the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) for
Metropolitan Manila; the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) for about
700 cities and municipalities with population greater than 20,000 (many of
which contain rural areas within their boundaries); and the Rural Waterworks
Development Corporation (RWDC),/l serving about 800 cities and municipalities
with population below 20,000. RWDC's principal functions are the formation of
Rural Waterworks Associations (RWAs) at the barangay level, and assisting
these associations with finance, technical assistance and training and in
implementing rural water supply schemes. The Ministry of Public Works and
Highways (MPWH) and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) assist RWDC in
implementing rural water supply schemes. This sectoral organization has
resulted in the anomaly of LWUA being responsible for servicing a larger rural
population than RWDC, which was specially created for this purpose. Over-
lapping responsibilities with consequent duplication of efforts of the several
agencies helping RWDC in the implementation of the rural water supply program
(para. 40) is also an area requiring review and reorganization. The Govern-
ment recognizes the problem and has recently established a high level
committee to review the organization and the role of the various agencies in
the sector. The Rural Water Supply Sector Review Committee's composition and
terms of reference have been accepted by the Bank. The Committee would report
to the Prime Minister/Minister of Finance; the review would be completed by
April 30, 1983, and the recommendations agreed with the Bank would be imple-
mented by December 31, 1983 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       The availability of adequate quantities of safe water, when combined
with health education and water-sealed household toilets, would have a favor-
able impact on health, personal hygiene and general household sanitation. The
integration of the rural water supply and rural sanitation programs, by
forming Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (RWSAs) at the barangay
level, is being implemented by the Government. This would help in achieving
the full health benefits of both programs, particularly in the area of health
education.
/1 Established in January 1980 under the direct supervision of the Ministry
of Human Settlements.



- 12 -
39.       In the sewerage and sanitation field, MWSS and LWUA are responsible
for their respective areas of jurisdiction and MOH is responsible for the
rural areas. MWSS has recently started providing these services in
Metropolitan Manila. However, because of the low ability to pay for sewerage
and the priority given by the population to safe water over sanitation in the
small cities, LWUA has no immediate plans for improving sanitation. MOH
undertakes rural sanitation programs at the barangay level, where MOH sanitary
inspectors supervise the fabrication and distribution of toilet bowls and
slabs and advise upon their siting and installation by householders. MOH also
carries out health education programs.
40.       In addition to the principal agencies (MWSS, LWUA, RWDC and MOH)
there are three ministries - MPWH, MLG and the Ministry of Human Settlements
(MHS) - and the National Electrification Administration (NEA) supporting RWDC
in the development of the rural water supply sector. MPWH plays two roles.
Firstly, as the ministry overseeing MWSS and LWUA, it has a coordinating
function and also prepares sectoral plans. MPWH prepared, in July 1980, the
national "Integrated Water Supply Program 1980-2000" which provided a basis
for the recently prepared "Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master Plan."
Secondly, the Government provides annual budgetary allocations to MPWH to
construct deep and shallow wells, carry out spring developments and, until
recently, build communal faucet schemes. In the execution of these works,
MPWH utilizes its well established regional and district organization and is
presently guided by RWDC policies. MLG is training its Provincial Engineers,
through a USAID-funded Barangay Water Program, to develop local capability for
designing and constructing rural water supply schemes. MHS, the ministry
overseeing RWDC, carries out community development activities such as the
formation of barangay water brigades and barangay health brigades to improve
access to safe drinking water and good sanitation. Finally, NEA through its
Electric Cooperatives (ECs), was associated with two small rural water supply
pilot schemes and now acts as a collection agent for RWDC in the areas where
such cooperatives have been formed; at present, there are 123 ECs.
Sector Development
41.       RWDC has done a great deal of preparation in developing policies,
programs, design criteria, training programs and procedures for working at the
rural level. Three water service levels have been defined: Level I - shallow
or deep well with handpump serving up to 50 households; Level II - communal
faucet scheme serving a cluster of about 100 houses; and Level III - urban
type water supply system with house connections.  Design criteria appropriate
to rural systems have been developed with Bank and UNDP assistance and used in
the training of designers in MPWH, MWSS, LWUA and MLG.
42.       Development of Rural Water Supplies.  RWDC is rightly directing
most of its energies towards developing self-sufficiency at the local level
through the strengthening of the provincial organizations and the involvement
of RWSAs in all phases of subproject development. Prior to commencing any
water supply activities at the barangay level, RWDC's procedures require
the establishment of policy making, planning, and technical capabilities at
both the Provincial and Municipal/City levels. The Provincial Development



- 13 -
staffs attached to Provincial Governors' offices include a water resources
analyst who prepares a water resource inventory for use as a basis for
subproject identification. Through the Provincial Water Committee, in which
is represented MOH, MPWH and MLG, and the Provincial Waterworks Development
Task Force, a five-year water resource development plan is prepared as part of
an overall five-year provincial capital investment program which is updated
annually.  The Five-Year Water Resources Plan covering all the provinces
(which was integrated into the master plan for rural water supply) is trans-
lated into annual implementation plans which are executed in close cooperation
with RWDC, by: (a) the MPWH's Provincial and District Offices for Level I
systems and water source development; (b) the MLG Provincial Engineers'
Offices for Level II Systems; and (c) MWSS and LWUA in rural barangays lying
within their areas of responsibility.
43.       Formation of Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Associations.
Barangay councils initiate requests for village water supplies. For barangays
where subprojects appear feasible based upon preliminary studies made at the
local level (para. 42), public meetings are held. If community reaction is
positive about proceeding, a more detailed study is made to select the level
of service which is desired and which can be afforded. The community then
passes a resolution to form an RWSA and appoints a board of directors. The
RWSA is then registered with RWDC and becomes responsible for construction of
the water supply system and its management, operation and maintenance after
completion.
44.       Ten percent of the cost of all subprojects is contributed by the
RWSAs, with the remaining 90% of cost being provided as grants by the Govern-
ment for Level I systems and as loans by RWDC in the case of Level II systems.
The loans are repayable by the RWSAs over 20 years, including one year of
grace, at an interest rate of 4% per annum. This is the first step taken by
the Government to instill a measure of self-reliance in the rural population
which until quite recently was accustomed to government handouts for social
programs. The need for a subsidized interest rate at this stage of the
development of the rural water supply sector is acceptable in view of the low
repayment capacity of the beneficiarieswho are mainly low income families, and
to support the Government's objective of providing basic needs - safe drinking
water and proper sanitation - at affordable costs.
45.       Development of Rural Sanitation.  MOH is the lead government agency
for the management of sanitation and has created sanitation committees which
include representatives of MPWH, MLG, MWSS and LWUA at all levels down to the
provincial, municipal and barangay level to reach the RWSAs. It has several
years of experience with the ongoing household toilet construction program
(para. 36) and has a well established regional, provincial and rural health
delivery organization. Its staffing includes some 60 sanitary engineers,
3,000 sanitary inspectors, 4,500 municipal health officers and about 8,000
public health nurses. MOH provides toilet bowls free of charge to beneficiary
families, and each family in turn carries out the necessary construction (pit
and enclosure) and installation of the toilet bowl under the technical
guidance of MOH's sanitary inspectors. The procedures to be followed by the
barangays for initiating sanitation subprojects, would be similar to
those for water supply.



- 14 -
Investment Programs in the Water Sector
46.       The sector strategy for water resources in the Third Development
Plan (1978-82) was to give priority to areas with larger population sizes and
densities, greater industrial, commercial and institutional concentrations and
wherever water supply could propel development. If 1982 expenditure keeps to
the previous proportional pattern, then only about one-third of the plan would
be achieved. LWUA has been on target; MPWH has, as of now, achieved 47% of
its program, whereas MWSS has only spent 27%o of its programmed allocation.
However, because MWSS is committed to heavy expenditures in 1982, it is likely
to utilize a substantial proportion of its allocation. Expenditures in rural
water supply are expected to reach only about 25% of the planned program. The
apparent poor performance of the sector is mainly due to unrealistically high
program targets, initial implementation delays, and insufficient counterpart
funds. During the next plan, the performance of the rural water supply sector
is expected to improve as RWDC gains more experience in project implementa-
tion.
47.       The Government has allocated about 5% of GNP to public infrastruc-
ture investment during the Fourth Development Plan (1983-87), with a similar
proportion as in the Third Plan, estimated at about 0.8% of GNP, for water
resources, equivalent to about P 30 billion. An additional estimated
P 300 million would be required for the Fourth Plan's rural sanitation
program under MOH. These investments are ambitious and are based upon the
Government's commitment to achieve the targets of the United Nations'
International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (para. 33). The
Government has taken early steps to make a start on the feasibility studies
and detailed designs necessary to implement the planned program and also to
further improve the organization and management of MWSS and LWUA. Multi-
lateral and bilateral assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
Switzerland, Japan, Germany and the USA is also being drawn upon for the pro-
gram. Nonetheless, it is quite unlikely that the absorptive capacity of the
sector agencies would have improved to the extent that the targetted invest-
ment would be achieved. Guided by past experience in project implementation
in the sector and the need for improving the sectoral organization, the
Government intends to make a start with a small and manageable Bank-assisted
first phase of a rural water supply and sanitation program selected from the
Master Plan (para. 33) to service the rural areas with the greatest needs.
Bank Lending for the Sector
48.       The Bank became actively involved in the sector in the late 1970s.
A Bank loan of $23 million (Loan 1415-PH) made to the Government in 1977 for
the First Provincial Cities Water Supply Project included funds for providing
improved water supplies to six relatively large provincial cities and prepar-
ing feasibility studies for future projects. A second Bank loan of $88 mil-
lion (Loan 1615-PH), made in 1978 to help improve and expand the Metropolitan
Manila water supply system, also financed detailed design and feasibility
studies for water supply in provincial cities and preparation of the rural
water supply program. The third Bank loan/credit of $38 million (Loan/Credit
1710-PH; 920-PH) made in 1979 financed water supply subprojects in some



- 15 -
50-60 small towns and preparation of future projects for some 150 towns. A
fourth loan of $63 million (Loan 1814-PH) made in 1980 financed sewerage and
sanitation in Metropolitan Manila and also technical assistance for the
preparation of future projects. The first two projects had significant delays
during the first two years caused partly by the time taken to prepare detailed
designs and in awarding contracts, but recent progress has been satisfactory.
The other projects had relatively minor implementation problems at the
beginning and are now showing better progress. To avoid such delays in the
implementation of the proposed project, most of the detailed engineering work
has been completed to criteria acceptable to the Bank, and bids have been
invited for part of the rural water supply materials and equipment following
Bank Guidelines.
49.       Despite the initial delays, the Bank's participation in the above
four projects resulted in improvement in institution building and management
of both MWSS and LWUA. The Bank was also instrumental, through sector studies
and UNDP-funded technical assistance projects, in laying the foundations for
the creation of RWDC and has assisted all three institutions in making tech-
nological advances. Bank-financed urban and rural development projects are
also providing water supply and sanitation systems for low-income groups. The
Bank's strategy in the sector is to continue to support the Government's
investment program for improving water supply, sewerage and sanitation facil-
ities and to provide technical assistance and training for institution build-
ing and staff development. The Bank would also continue to support the
Government in its efforts to improve the organization and management of the
water supply and sanitation sector. Future operations would benefit from the
local capabilities developed over the past five years and the additional
institution building support provided for under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.        Following a formal request from the Government in April 1981, two
Bank missions visited the country in June and November 1981, to assist with
the preparation of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Master Plan and
appraise the project. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 19 to
23, 1982, with the Philippine delegation led by Mr. A. M. Locsin, Deputy
Director General of NEDA. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 3866-PH, dated August
25, 1982, is being circulated separately. A Loan and Project Summary is
presented at the beginning of this report, and a Supplemental Project Data
Sheet is at Annex III.
Project Objectives
51.       The main objectives of the proposed project are the development and
mobilization of local resources for the rural water supply and sanitation
sector, and the organization and strengthening of its local institutions.
These objectives would be achieved through the financing of part of the
Government's rural water supply and sanitation program (para. 34) with
priority given to the rural areas with the greatest needs. The efforts of the
several agencies involved in the sector would, under the project, be better



- 16 -
coordinated and channelled towards the single task of improving public
health in the rural areas, by providing safe water supply and sanitary
excreta disposal systems and promoting higher standards of hygiene and
personal cleanliness.
Project Description
52.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(a) Rural Water Supply
(i) the construction of about 4,500 shallow wells and about
2,300 deep wells and the rehabilitation of about 2,900 existing
wells for Level I systems, and the construction of about 400
Level II systems, including the provision of materials, well
casings and screens, drilling equipment, handpumps and electric
pumps, pipes, fittings, and vehicles for the supervision of
construction; and
(ii) the construction and equipping of about 12 workshops for the
maintenance of rural water supply systems, and the testing
of handpumps and well screens.
(b)   Rural Sanitation
(i) The construction of about 750,000 toilet units, training
of MOH staff in sanitation practices, supply of chemicals for
the disinfection of wells and vehicles for supervision of
construction; and
(ii) construction and monitoring of 12 waste stabilization ponds,
including the provision of required equipment.
(c)   Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Consulting services of about 200 man-months (60 foreign and 140
local) for: research in the design and construction of rural
water supply and rural sanitation works, project review and
monitoring, financial and management reporting, and training in
the design of low cost water supply and sanitation systems; and
(ii) overseas and local training in the management, operation and
maintenance of water supply and sanitation systems.
(d) Preparation of Future Projects
Consulting services, totalling about 540 man-months (140
foreign and 400 local), for preparing future drainage, flood
control and solid wastes management projects in Metropolitan
Manila.



- 17 -
Implementation Arrangements
53.       Water Supply.  RWDC would be responsible for the implementation of
Level II systems and for coordinating water supply and sanitation activities
under the project. A senior RWDC official whose experience and qualifications
are acceptable to the Bank would be responsible for these activities (Section
2.06 of the draft Project Agreement) with direct involvement from RWDC's Gen-
eral Manager in the coordination aspects. MPWH, which would be responsible
for construction of Level I water supply systems and water source development
has created a project management office, the staffing of which would be
completed by March 31, 1983 (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The organization and staffing arrangements of this office have been reviewed
and are acceptable.
54.        Sanitation.  MOH has also created a project management office which
would be responsible for the sanitation component. The Provincial Health
Offices would, under the guidance of the project management office, carry out
the construction of the toilet units and the health education and training
programs; the implementation arrangements would be similar to those followed
under MOH's ongoing toilet construction program (para. 45). The staffing of
MOH's project management office would be completed by not later than March 31,
1983 (Section 3.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The organization of this
office has been reviewed by the Bank and is satisfactory.
55.       Health Education.  Success in the rural water supply and sanitation
activities is greatly dependent on community participation, and the health
education component in the project plays a very important role in community
preparation. Therefore, to ensure successful project implementation, MOH
would incur additional administrative costs covering temporary staff for
supervision, and training, travelling, per diem and incentive payments to
existing staff, education, communication and demonstration materials required
for training programs, and vehicles and fuel; these incremental costs are
included in the project. MOH has made adequate implementation arrangements
through its regional and provincial offices to carry out the health education
and training programs. These arrangements include the training of MOH staff
in sanitation practices. The trained health officers, sanitary inspectors and
public health nurses would hold small group meetings with barangay officials,
cultural and religious groups, school children, parents and teachers associa-
tions, mothers' classes and other women's organizations, etc., to underscore
the importance of proper excreta disposal and safe drinking water. In turn,
these groups would explain and motivate the less educated members of the
community for participation in the program. This would be supplemented with
the dissemination of educational materials to schools, public posters and
radio broadcasts.
56.       Project Implementation and Review Committee.  A Project Implementa-
tion and Review Committee (PIRC) has been established, and its staffing would
be completed by March 31, 1983 (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
According to PIRC's terms of reference which are acceptable to the Bank,
PIRC's responsibilities include monitoring project performance, overall coor-
dination of the project's implementation activities, and verifying disburse-
ment claims/statements of expenditure before submission to the Bank. PIRC is
chaired by the Deputy Minister of MPWH and includes as members the assistant



- 18 -
Minister of MOH and RWDC's General Manager. It would be initially guided by
the priorities and design criteria established under the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Master Plan (para. 33), and assisted by a technical
secretariat, and consultants acceptable to the Bank.
57.        In an attempt to further maximize the health benefits of the
project, accelerate project implementation and reduce administration and
supervision costs, a pilot scheme integrating the rural water supply and
sanitation construction activities would be initiated in the early stages of
project implementation. In such a pilot scheme, expected to comprise about
100 villages mainly with Level I systems, each village would be treated as a
unit in which health education, water supply and sanitation are introduced
simultaneously. Based on the results of this approach, the scheme would be
expanded as appropriate.
58.        Maintenance Arrangements.  The project's design includes two levels
of maintenance for the capital equipment financed under the project. First,
routine preventive maintenance would be undertaken by villagers trained by
MPWH's field staff in maintaining handpump installations; every effort would
be made to ensure that the installed pumps are well designed and properly
installed. Second, breakdown maintenance which requires special equipment
would be carried out by MPWH's field offices with assistance from the RWSAs.
For this purpose, the project includes construction and equipping of 12
regional maintenance workshops. The Government would organize and adequately
staff and fund these workshops in order to undertake the maintenance of rural
water supply systems constructed under the project (Section 4.03 of draft
Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
59.        The total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is estimated at
$57.9 million, of which $24. 7 million or about 43% is the foreign exchange
component. The project cost includes an estimated $27.3 million for rural
water supply, $25.0 million for sanitation and $5.6 million for preparation
of future projects. The estimates have been made to a baseline of July 1982,
to which were added physical contingencies of 10%. Price contingencies were
calculated at the rate of 10% for 1982, and 8% thereafter for local costs,
and 8% for 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986 for
foreign costs. Foreign consultants costs, including fees, salaries, travel
and subsistence are estimated at $11,800 per man-month. Local consultants
costs are about $2,500 per man-month.
60.        The Bank loan to the Government in the amount of $35.5 million
(inclusive of $0.5 million capitalized front-end fee) would be for a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% p.a. The loan
would finance about 60% of the total project cost; this would cover the
foreign exchange cost and about 30% of the local cost. The Government would
allocate $12.3 million to AMIH for construction of sanitation works, and
a total of $14.7 million to MPWH for the construction of Level I systems,
water source development, engineering services and training. The equivalent
of $5.0 million would be relent by the Government to RWDC, under a Subsidiary



- 19 -
Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank, for the installation of Level II
systems. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement is a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). About $3.0
million would be utilized by the Government for the preparation of future
projects. The beneficiary communities would provide $2.0 million and the
Government would provide the remaining US$20.9 million equivalent through
budgetary allocations. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk
for the entire loan.
61.       RWDC.  Although a comparatively new organization, RWDC had by the
end of 1980 a staff establishment of 91 including 25 finance staff and is
operating in a businesslike manner. The authorized capital stock of RWDC is
P 1.0 billion in ten million shares of -' 100 each to be subscribed by the
Government as required. Audited financial statements for ten months of 1980
show that RWDC received from the Government an initial equity contribution
of e 12.0 million; this has since been increased to F 39.0 million.  An
additional annual appropriation of up to P 20.0 million is authorized for
technical assistance grants and institutional development of RWDC. The only
source of revenue for RWDC is from loans made to RWSAs for Level II and Level
III schemes on which it can charge interest. RWDC estimates that its
recurrent expenditure will reach *P 10.0 million by 1986, and its revenue
from loans is expected to be sufficient to cover these expenditures by 1988.
A commercial accounting system is in use and auditing is carried out by the
Government Commission on Audit. RWDC's accounting system is acceptable, and
its procedures and arrangements for accounting for project costs and
expenditures are satisfactory. RWDC's annual audit reports would be sent to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of each year (Section 4.02 of
the draft Project Agreement).
62.       For Level II water supply systems (RWDC involvement in Level III
systems is limited), loan repayments would be collected from RWSAs by ECs
(along with electricity charges) on behalf of RWDC (para. 40). The ECs would
receive a 10% collection fee only on the interest collected from RWSAs, under
RWDC loans.
63.       Cost Recovery.  Up to 90% of the cost of RWSAs' Level I water supply
schemes is provided as grants and, in the case of Level II schemes, as loans.
In every case the beneficiaries are expected to provide at least 10% of the
cost in the form of cash or kind. The loans would be for 20 years, including
one year of grace, at 4% p.a. While this interest rate is subsidized (para.
44), it represents a minor deviation from the Government's overall interest
rate policy which calls for charging a positive rate for all onlendings to
commercial entities and autonomous corporations. The initial monthly charges
to users have been set at eP 1.00 for Level I, and P 7.00 for Level II
services. These charges would cover operating costs, routine maintenance and
debt service where appropriate; water charges would be reviewed annually, in
November and the results of the review would be implemented in January of the
following year (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). The accounts of
all RWSAs receiving loans from RWDC would be audited, and a report on these
audits would be available for review by the Bank within six months of the end
of each year (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Under the



- 20 -
sanitation component, no cost recovery from beneficiaries is proposed in order
to encourage all families to install sanitary household toilets. However,
these beneficiaries are expected to contribute about 53% of the total cost of
the complete toilet units (each costing about P 900) in the form of labor
and materials for construction. The remaining costs would be borne by the
Government.
Procurement
64.        Equipment and materials needed for the project and totalling about
$16.5 million are suitable for ICB and would be procured according to the
Bank's Guidelines. Specialized micro-computer equipment and services, with
total cost of about $20,000, to be used for training in detailed design
and preparation of financial projections, would be procured through inviting
quotations from at least three independent manufacturers/suppliers in
accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. C-1 of
Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement). Civil works for the construction of
12 regional maintenance workshops, 12 stabilization ponds, and about 10,000
wells, 750,000 sanitary toilet units and 400 Level II water supply systems
would be procured through small local contracts or force account or voluntary
labor; most of these civil works are small and scattered throughout the
country and would not interest foreign bidders. All consulting services to be
financed under the proposed loan (except for preliminary and detailed engin-
eering of the 400 small Level II water supply systems which are being carried
out by the Provincial Engineers' Offices assisted by local consultants) would
be procured on the basis of the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants,
dated August 1981, and their terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
65.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed (a) at 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory and 65% of local expendi-
tures off-the-shelf for equipment, materials, vehicles and toilet bowls; (b)
at agreed upon unit costs for completed civil works expenditures; (c) at 100%
of total expenditures for consultants' services; and (d) at 100% of foreign
and 30% of local expenditures for training. All disbursements would be fully
documented except for local expenditures under (b) and (d) which would be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Each disbursement claim
involving SOE would be verified by the Project Implementation and Review
Committee (para.56) to the effect that the claims are related to works
properly carried out. In addition, documents in support of SOEs would be
retained by the executing agencies for one year after the Closing Date
(Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 4.01 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement), and separate opinions would be given by the
independent auditors confirming that funds withdrawn under SOE have been used
for the purposes intended (Section 4.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 4.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The disbursement schedule
generally follows the countrywide disbursement profile for the water supply
and sewerage sector in the Philippines. The Closing Date for the proposed
loan is December 31, 1987.



- 21 -
Justification and Benefits
66.       Population Benefitted.  The rural water supply component would
provide communal faucet service to clusters of households of about 100-150
families and handpump service to clusters of households of about 15 to 50
families reaching a total population of about 1.7 million. The rural sanita-
tion program would provide about 750,000 new or rehabilitated household water-
sealed toilets during the project period of five years benefiting a total
population of about 4.5 million. Most of this population is among the poorest
segments of the country and would have access to safe water and appropriate
sanitation for the first time; this is expected to have a positive effect on
their productivity. A better balance in opportunities between the rural and
urban areas and a more equitable access to social services would also result.
A socio-economic survey conducted for this project indicates that rural
communities attach a high value to improved water supply and sanitation.
Women and children who spend long hours fetching water would especially
benefit from the project.
67.       Economic Evaluation.  The economic return on the overall invest-
ment was not quantified because of the impossibility of assigning a monetary
value to health benefits stemming from the project, and because the overall
project revenues - a proxy for quantifiable benefits - are negligible,
especially in the rural sanitation component. However, the internal rate of
return (IRR) for a typical sample of Level II communal schemes provides the
following results: (a) using the expected average water charge (para. 63)
for the 48 liters per capita per day (lpcd) to be provided under the project
as a proxy measure of project benefits, the rate of return is 4%; and (b)
using the present water charge paid by beneficiaries to water vendora for the
first 20 lpcd and one half of the incremental 28 lpcd to be provided as a
measure of estimated total willingness to pay, the rate of return is 10%.
This calculation suggests that even without considering the value of public
health and other benefits, the economic rate of return of the project is
positive. Furthermore, the project represents the least cost solution and
provides reasonable levels of service for the rural areas of the country using
low cost and appropriate technology. The health education and household
toilet construction components of the proposed project are justifiable in
terms of their reduction of public health hazards.
Risks
68.       The main risk is the limited experience of RWDC and MOH with
implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity envisaged. Although
RWDC is a new institution, it has the support of an experienced organization
in the MPWH. MOH has some experience with the toilet construction program
(para. 45), but there is the risk of implementation delays due to low
community acceptance because of lack of awareness of the health benefits
of good sanitation. The technical assistance from consultants would minimize
the risk of implementation delays by RWDC and MOH, and the training and
community health education programs would minimize the risk of low community
acceptance of the sanitation component. Furthermore, the rural water supply
and sanitation program is supported at the highest levels in the Government.



In addition, well qualified staff have been appointed to a number of key
positions, and RWDC's present General Manager also has extensive experience
with rural communities through his connection with the ongoing rural elec-
trification program. The Bank's experience with LWUA's management and staff
in the two ongoing provincial water supply projects has been encouraging,
giving room for confidence that both RWDC and MOH staff would similarly gain
experience and successfully implement the project.
Environmental Aspects
69.       The project is intended to rehabilitate existing rural water supply
and sanitation systems and to extend these services to large numbers of rural
population who do not have access to adequate or safe water supply. The need
for much of the population to satisfy all of their water requirements from
safe water sources would be substantially met and the incidence, and risks of
waterborne diseases would be reduced. The volume of water used by people
served through public wells or standpipes is modest, allowing them to satisfy
basic human requirements for cooking and personal use, and would not impose
any serious disposal problem. The waste resulting from the project would not,
therefore, be an environmental problem.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Rural
Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC) and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. In addition to
the special conditions listed in Section III of Annex III, signing of the
Subsidary Loan Agreement between the Government of the Philippines and RWDC
would be an additional condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 27, 1982



ANNEX I
-23 -                                    Page 1 of 5
TABLK 3A
PHILIWPPlEZ   SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4A-GES
AREA (tHOUSAND SQ. KX.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ISTIMATE)LI
TO    TIt- 00e0. o                                      MOST RECENT           MIDDLE lNVWg             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     109.0               1960  Lb    1970  b ESTIMATE  b          ASIA 4 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  150.0        250.0     690.0                  890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      146.8        272.3     329.4                  701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEA  (THOSANDB) 27902.0       37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3          32.9      36.2                   32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        76.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                         126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        93.0        125.1     159.2                  255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4         361.0     438.2                 1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5       44.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4        51.6       52.8                   56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                    3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0       2.7                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               4.2          3.8       3.6                    3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.5         38.5      34.1                   31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.6          9.8       7.3                    9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3          2.7       2.2                    2.0                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        191.7     650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          2.0       37.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      113.0                  115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.6        97.2      106.7/c                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        47.5       52.0/c                 54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.6         18.7      20.4/c                 13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.6          7.9       4.5                    6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8          59.0      63.5                   59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           105.8        75.0       54.7                   63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        24.0       43.0/d                 32.0                    65.6
URBAN                                ..           ..      66.0/d                 51.9                    78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      33.0/1                 20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        57.0       56.0/d                 37.7                    59.3
URB,AN                               ..           ..      76.0/1                 65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      44.01W                 24.0                    30.0
POPULATiON PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    2809.4/c               8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3173.1/1                4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL.                           1229.3       838.6      568.7                 1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                             547.3       400.6         ..                  651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         30.0        ..                   27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
URBAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
URBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                ..          2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                          60.4       82.0
RURAL                                            6.8      10.0



- 24 -
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        114.0      98.0                    96.2                    104.3
MALE                  98.0        115.0         ..                   99.8                     106.4
FEMALE                93.0        113.0         ..                   92.1                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0         51.0      63.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  28.0         52.0         ..                   41.1                      40.4
FEMALE                25.0         49.0         ..                   34.1                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.3            8.9/e    33.9/c                  20.8                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.9         28.6      31.2/c                  35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                           26.9/f       33.0      35.6/i                  25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6       75.0                   73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.1          7.4       8.8/                   9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.5         40.0      44.0                   116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         10.7      20.9                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.4         13.4      20.3                    53.7                      63.7
CI14EMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6/h          ..        7.5/d                  2.8                       2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5        13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.2         33.1      32.3                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         53.0      46.0                    52.2                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0         16.0      17.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6       35.5                   38.5                      33.6
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.6                    50.5                      50.4
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.2                    26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3        1.3                    1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     260.0                   194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     195.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     266.0                   178.2                   518.0
RU'RAL                                ..           ,.     200.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      32.0                    24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Ratimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1972; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



-25-                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEflhITfWNS OP SaintL tEltcTOIS
Moten;  bltbeugb the data are  tac  from- nee  poosity  judged thm meet ttihrt.tntt- sod rt.iate., in shuld alma It  totd then the7 sp mt be inte--
eatianally comparable becas .of the 1ak of standrdi.ed deflitione and concpt. ned by differet noasneie  go collecting  the data.  Th. dan te,mae
theiro. aseful toeceh   order  of megnitcde. tdicete trends, and obhraterien cernin ajar difference. bet . .et . coutries
The reforoa.. groups are (1) the  -as  coun.try groap cf the oubject ....atry aod (2) s country groap cith ..em.chat bigher  iveag  mcs  thea the  -catty grouP
of tha subject cc..atry Concept for "High (anon oil oportar" group ehere "Middle moose N.rth Afrin.eand MIddle East' I h..nee bceun of stronger
eonin-clnaral affieltier).  Ic the refecea-  grtup data the evragee are Ppoplation ceighted arithmetic meet  for sech iodic-tcr atd sh-  onlY -he-
ajortyo  tha ccun..triea in c group hen date for that indlo..tar.  niece ths coverge of.. cnt.iee   ng the iadi--or  dopende  ot the  n-ilnblity of dnte
cod is tot  aifrn,  -nulon act be soercised In reletfog anreges of one Inicator tc another.  These avranen  only utefa1 It coparing the vSo  of0
-an Ininnito et a tins eoeg the rott..oy end refer.ene groups.
AREA (thousan.d eqe)Population on? fosritt1 Bed - tcto.1 crnc  ad ruta1 - PaPu1ation  (total.
T.to1 - Total surface are .....prialog land arcs oat inland eatern; 1979 dats.                    urba          -1drua) divided by the it raspoctie comber of hospital beds
Agiulual-ltiato  of agrico toca1 arts nod t-ep-rrily or permanetly                        neetiableo   ~public end priest.s genra _ ci spctsd hospital nod0-
for crepe. pasturen,  -aret aud kitchen gerdlen or to lie fslloc; 1979 data.                    habilinenina cetr . gpitole are               tbihetot   emnnl s1teffad
by atlatoephysfien.   Ztotblish_ets Praeiditgp;rionipelly1 a.ati
iGNP PER CAPITA (U10) - GOP Par capita notiatan at current market prinn. cal-                       diLnn  are not included.   uRal hespitsie. hu-erer  include health
oladby uan  -oerltmthod oc Norild Book Aclme (197f-80 heels); 1960.                          and msdicl ..eaterm  eat permanently staffed by a phyninlic (but by
1970, end 1980 date,                                                                              medical a..eintant. tote, midife. et.)  hchnfefr in-Poti.tnu an
datlan and proidn a limitrd rngr of medical tf-ilities           F.Pr etatlr
OP:tEdCOOIOMTIIO t1PtR CAPITA - Aunual c-taPtion of   -iroiol eargy I(oa                            t::si purpon... urin hospittle  -Iunde amen prloipo1/ganoral hoepitale,
en IgSit  .pecrle n, t .a.ra  gu  an 1d hyon-. nolarad geothra  alec.-                         and rura  hoapitele, lu-a  or ruralh. boyal  an.d editt.1 sad materity
trinity) Ic kilogroma of col0     qle     cptI  nepita; 1961, 197M=n  1979                         . cotrrs.  SpeniLier.d honpitale are itudad' oly cod.r total.
data.                                                                                           adoelautoo  Per Ifertal Led - Toto1 nothr of adninoi.ne 0  or disahoges
fLF.ULATION AND VITAL.                                                           h..~~~~~~fro  bnpial  divIded by thr tutat nt bndn.
PlytLATItI  C VIALSTATISTICS
Total Population, Mid-Yea  (cho-ucd) - do of July 1; 1960, 1970, aod 19ff0                   fHOUSING
dan.                                                                                          vA-rcaiar I  nt founohoid(rnoayuOushd)-talonn,ndua
irba  Populatino (acn  otta)-Rtio of urban to tota  population;                                   A h     hoeold  coeot          f                nggopo   aiiulatuoaelvo  quarte,rs
difrn tainicloon of  rhonr-n may affectr co.parbility of data                          o           _ihirml mut   A boordr or lodgar may or may not h   oldd
amang  _ootrion; lo       91   u   91dt,the hoasebhold for etetinticol purycero.
PoninProje-tfo..                                                                         A-nannrroforeo  cn   om                    otni,  ra.andua   -aveag   nc-
PPorlti-n in ytn  2111 - Caoor-  Ppoplatiun p-njou-f-  ann ba..rd on 19t0                      hccpnnnyttnmLnIt  ra, un   ua   cupied  auvetinnel
conte1 population by ago and nec and theic mornalicy and fertility reten.                    denllinge.  -rpoocirnly.  Dtcelingnaon:.udc  o-pran               trcursad
Projencion peronetaro for mertality trot.  -otrino of th-c l1val  aosn-anccpied parta.
imo 110inononn   a  birth Iact.untunnlth cnuntry' aPr -ayttu  mi-c                           crnt   lncrirtct    (-occ cf denioin    total, urban, and  rurl -
lovnl, Ind fem1a ift1,. -net-ny ntobilleing at 77.) p.rom.  Thr p.r.C..toa   rrlig    iheotrnc    olnn    eatr   npretg
macera fr fortuit yroa         chero tIter bed-       aoin  declin  in                       of total, urbun, cud rurel.                lclicn ,ttiey
fettility a-crdIng ccinu    Irn  atpstimiypuatg  tftmnn
loch c...anry In thenaugodcoo .ibon=  ciecelole                     f   art-lity         EDUCATIONI
and fertility t        fn o fr projection purpceu.                                         Adjuatad Eor.llenat taIIu
Stot iooy opltu   - ~ In   tratiunuy pupulnti-n thert In on  rocb. tino                         primary onhoo1 - toct. ro   an .d femala - Gono coral, male and femlo
tho birch rote Ic oqual to tha death rant, and alto thn og  etr-turere-                         enroi1eun of all agen at the primary 1-1a an par..ntagne of rep-ti-e
maic  -onerat.  Thi. In ochiavd only after fentitfYXrote  decline toi.                         Priay.h.i apouain; ocreally7.rua cildorn aged 6-li
cI   epaemn  lavl of unit not reproductio  race, aberob generatio                        yeru butoja           o  dT-iffre   he.tb   of pimary  .d..tion; for
of roa  repl...e itanlIf.. eatly.  The attionry.populocioooimee                                 cutriea nith a  ora  eduocti nol,e'n -nY enneed 10) percen.t
enimeted on tho hauls of nh. prajoctrd thar-t-ritict of the population                           toc  non .popils are bolos orohbv   tha of.Aicil  cbonl age.
to the year 2000, cad th.  atet of daclia  of fertility rate in replace-                      Secondary school -  :totl mola eud fom% -computed as ebon; eecoadry
metlee.                                                                                      odonationrqurs  tlen_fu  Veers of                  ..pord primary IotUn.on
Year ntatiooary cpuatonI  re-hd - The year  lhc ntatio..cry population                            pto-id.. gene.ral, v-tio..al, onreno   rfi ttotr ioafor popils
aic till be reac hed.                                                                           u-ualy of 12 to 17 peers of age; ...rrrnpoode.rc  ror-e  are generallY
Ponolanico Eanoity                                                                                  _nladed
Per to. he. - tfid-ynar popolation par uq..n. kilomter (1ff hecctre) of                      Vona.tiono-erolle-t (percet of oecndarn) - Vaca.ciooal tostitutto..a
tatel1 are; 1900, 1970 and 1979 dote.                                                          incldo nechoicl, industria, or other progran  allh opaote iodopend-
Pr so.A.-ai-ultura1 land - C.ep.t.d an above for ogricoLtaral land                             ettly or en dnyprtmam   of e-codary fos titnotin.
onY; 1960. 1971 and 1979 data.                                ~pi-oatchb.Errtie-%                                     iaa and nec..ndary- Tota  jotdone enrolld Io
PPuclatton Age Structura (erunt  - Cildron  (0-14 yearn), corkinsg-af  (1)-                      piryad rotry I-vel  dividrd by nuthora  at nnhan- In thn
64 Y-aro. and recited  (6    .enuad na)c   aona                  f eid-year popu-               corep    -de   tbo..
lotio; 1960, 190ad190deo                                                                      Adult litaracyroe(rc           )-Lcrt  adults (obl  -o taed and -nir.)
Poanlationiret  Rae(ano)-  oa                      - nul groebruten  of rtota  si-                 m    pernetc  of coci adult population aged c  pore and ovr.
poor pPpulatian for 110-60, 1960-70,. ad 1970-80.
populaIonI ir=n    Ret(ora)-ubn -j~           O  .n.oo  groeth raton of orbn pcpu-            COIIIOMPIcO
ai..n. f or 1950-60,16-O,   od17-l                                                           oaoe   on(vo  thousan d rpolaItiot) - Pa-ooer9 aers comprise manor
Crud  Birth lte  'Per theuo-d) -A-na  Irn birthe per thb.....d fcisd-year                        crs cenig  oo   than eight p-r...n; etclud-c osul ra                .rorne  and
populatlen;1960. 197,0an  1990 data                                                             mIlitary  -ticlu..
Crde lenth Rot  (per ah-o..nd) - Annua~l deatbn per thousan.d  of aid-poor                      adio It..cIoern  rntona   opltn)- All typen of  -ci-e  a for radio
Popa1atima; 196), 1970, anM 900 data.                                                           bo-d-asn  to fcrrlpublic Per thauatd cf papulatioc; e.rludrP  a--
lonon Rata- nlua  at  - uoraugn n-cAc  c  daogbctu    'oea  cil  baun In                          licnncd rtc-ivnt   Ic co niaad In y-tn then. nogincrti-n of  _ndi.
her  aroa  ropraductie  per iad If  hbo onparin.... preo .. o.-apeaif ic fer-                   onto ca  to affet;~ data for roet yoo-  may ant ho c-p-br bin ulno
tility  reten; onualyrf~loe-ya..r ovrgeadi,, in lhi0  1970,. tnd 1980.                          enun cntrian abuIabad licenuiog.
Panily Punnina -kccntnon . foot (,h.oun)-houl_nnto   ccpot                              TV t-eitocn (pot thennond population   - TV r-civ-rn for bnncdcont to
of birth-cn..rI dvicre.  od.rc.. uPicra of ncon1 faiyplaning progra.                            g.n.r.  public per choodpopolotion; .nldn..               irno Oreeot
PcIyPlnto  - ba.re (parceot of oorrlod.ecn    Pern...tagr of macind                           incucina  ndIcyern then  olcrto                    fc Vnts coo to efft.
coetofhild-b-aria  age (-44 yoor)  ubaon  bircb--c-1ro   dn-icoo to                     RNnyapor Cir-oloiur  (for tboucand copuloico    h- tt   th           eueia-
all earne  comet i  anne ogrnancy.                                   clation o  "daily gonara1 itotrostt necoopr", doied 00 0 poioicl
publi-utlan davtnd primarily to r-crdiug feceralnoa   It In conid-rd
FOOD ACD NUTRITION                                                                                  to he "daily" if it  tporo   lean.t fou  fins a neck.
Indoo cf rend froducict prr Capia  (1969-71-ill) - lode  of Per c.pit. annual                  CiuomA  .. Ann Al Ated-nc  0c  C-oe             T r-Ocuo.d tcho  uoshac of
Pnooto    falfc   cndce.Prodocrion  -cludeo ae.d cod feed and                                   ticketn odd d       grn   nb   er   nldo    diulc   ciiai   iec
Iahn olodrVor  uno              Con dinnun o primay otd  (e.g. -ffecan                          an.ahl dlu
macadofcoa      A cic  arc odibiad.  coti_hcct  (c    a n   n
tea= or olodgd)   Agrcuc  poodtin  of .uchcoutry In bae ... dLABOR POnCE
naioaoorgo prduce  plicacibn  1916,190   n  1901 dora                                   Total _Labor PF- (hctno   -annclyacio   p-rnoo, i.clodiog
Per caita suppl ofcP       ria(er       tco   coimra)o- Ccepnrrd fra.                             armd frcen and onrplynd bat ..oluding ho. coo,auona   r
oneagy  qoiv-lent of nor food nppylion  -vilablo In c-ory Per anpita                              _rorto  poplaIonIf all aoa.  leftotrit   in  'oc... racr_             nr
per icy.  Available ncppli-a.c.prinn d-menca  prod-ctiac. Iwoarn  I..u                          con coupacbla;)1960., 1971 cod 19Bi dan..
naportn, and changrn Iu  tcok.  Set  cpiosoo  ldo animal faed, unodo,                           F-1a (porcent) -P_,eLc labor forcoac. per--cgn of total labor foran
qu_titice ouod in foud prt-niug, and I.u.o. In dioccibut'io.  Require-                         Accicolt.ro (rprcat) -Lbor foroIn forming. for_try, bunting and
metuerotisoled by PAO bo...d an phpuInlc0ical ned  icr noml-            c-fikiga   o                           cga of natallabrfre 91.17   n   90data.
vity cod health co-id-ortg  -oito-eto1 tnporartr.  body ngc,  ago'                             lndautry (parcant) - Labor forc  in mining.  occortoiacfcnrc
an -e  dietribution of popalatlor. and alloriuc 10 pa-rcn  for  .rut  on                       ad electicity.  a tac aod gn an per-tcge of carol labor Ocrcr;
bocoe..h,i  leve; 1961-6)  1970  nad 1977 da                                                      1960  1970 ad10  dta.
per capictudoply of Proenlrnpar day) -ProccJn  -ctoot ofpec caPita                             Po      ptc   aE=  (Per-ent) - caa,t,. mal, and femalo - Pactiaipanico or
net nopply ci fond pan day.  Net ouppply  tEoad In define du abav.  Rce-                       acivity rates arc  opo  antnl             .ml,ad lemale labac OcEuo
qurnet   oralconrisetablinhed by  DId prvida f or ninisc                                      pccnac        f total, cola and E.-I.o papu1onioc onI ofseetioy
oIon-n--  of 60 Sroa of total Proei  poEo   u   1cac   faia                                    1960. 1970.  n  1980 dota.  Th..e  rer  bound onL u0o prtiipation race
paint protein, ci clink 1I fraca  oo-ld In anima  prutcin.  Then.  trn-                         relcfu o-n   cu  unn  thel n uto . ad 1-nn time tttn.  6
urds ore 1_cr than clone of75 Eooa of intol procoin and 25 E---  of                             foe ociacr   r   rmnoinlooon
animal protein an en uvrogo fortrho acrd, Propy...d by PAP In the Third                       &-maic apondcncy Antic - Antic of popultion  adr 15 cod l5 end over
'n-Id food lurocy; 1961-6l. mo0 cud 1977 dtut.                                                  tc thn total labor fa--t
Pot capit pro -trio sopply from animl and  -ulr - Prutela nupply of ford de-
rived iron suimln and po1... in Eran  por day; 1961-65, 1970 and 197 7 da ta.              INCOnE DISTRIBUTIONf
Child, (a   1-4) Ranch Seir (Per thoanod) - do-cl deonbe - prhtboond in                         Prcncn of Privota Inc,-  (barb In real  P.d kind) - Raeired by richean
age grup1-4 yoaru, to  hbtldco J. chin age froup, iccmea  devlapt.  cat                        5 pret  rcer2 rnren, aeet 20 pcet  and p.acant 40 p.rr...t
trica data derived fran lifo  tabia; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.                                  of houneblt..
AMIyH                                                                                          POVUTY TARGIfT GlootPS
MEift to NtuY at Oirrb (c-rn) - uv-rge totr ci ycarn of lift r-mitog                            Thr foliccing rotimacoc arc  -reyppr-nimat  meue    f p.-tty levela,
at  tbirch;1960t197  and l9go dae.ad th1oul ha interptrotd aIh naifarabln caution.
Infant Motltygc  (ant tbhuaod) - Annua  dauth  of  af-tor  coder  -r  ya-                       ntti-totd Abncltc Poverty Inca12  invi          I pe- ait)-uban ad rural-
ofaepr ihood live birtbn; 1960, 1970 ad1Sdt..Anirpoety   cm   bra1  in tha   noelylhbotbc       iia
Acoona to Saf. eter (peccan o-f pplain  --oa, ra,an oa   -  oE-                                   nutriticoelly adrquat  diet pla  asa....rio1 nan-fond rnquiremutn in tot
her  i P-ePI. (total, urban, oat -rura) 60th roonache b        coo  to naf                      affordable.
nin   apply (inciodno treted ecrf. ac   onre ccnrrotnd but .....utaniated                 RatiaLd Rletai- Po-ertyIcm  Loa    i  e canto) - urban and r-r1
caerch an that fEru  pratented boruhlen. upriage, end  anitr,y  elia) en                    tur   relation Povrty  A.u  leeltocu-third of a-rag  pot capita
Penrmentge o;f thir reap-cci_ popultiona.  in an arbon orea.publIc                              pe renea  ionon  of the  o..-try.  Ur=a  1Ice  igs derivedfro  the rura
fotaino  standpoint locat ed not mare that 200 meters fros a h..- map be                        level cb adjoatmeot for 1,gh- ...a of living to abenaes
coosidered asbeing citbin resoble. access of then house .I. rura  ster...na  oolt    Relco ditealn  Povrybo    ee  prot     ra
receemable menan   -old imply that the bhnsif a or mebter  of the hoa..ehold                   and rura I -Pecet of Pop olsatan(ro  adrrl)naae  s ln
do  anhens to spend   diaproparniaete part of the dsp  to fetching the                          P.eon.
0Asf-Iy'5 caterneds
AnCceon to  S-r.tnn  Dioeemal (tarcent of en ltin    t-taigi orban, end rural
Rather of People (total, uba , t  total) sevdby ecrete dieposol am
percetnges of nheir rnpenniv  popuLations.  E ..reta dispoeci may imnLnde
the aclmsctad diapamal  oAth or vishrt trntn, of h-,e  smorte
and   ete- tine by  ntf-nrc  pten  or the aer nt pit prIiren cot sim-
lar gonlonoe
Popniatina ner Pbrsici1n  -  -Popltla  dinidet by onter of p-atlsigt  phyal-                                                           &oomaml  sad nacial Mote Ot~enon
tme.quaifted fro  a madic-L enho  et uml,m-ity ir_a.                                                                           t-noniu Aontynim  med ft.1-tinone Omrtest
.PonaIsigo er N ..sfee Perso   - Population divided by an.e o- f prgatisfeg                                                                        Mop 1932
msls end femle gradoats  nes  esnisnont  nes.Preatirl nnr-e  so



-26-                                                              ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                   Annual growth rates (%)
curregt prices)                         Actual                                         Projected
Indicator                              1979            1976     1977     1978     1979     1980/a    1981      1982    1983      1984     1985      1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             28,854             7.1      6.2      5.9      5.9      4.7        5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1       8.3
Agriculture                       6,991            8.6       5.0      4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2       5.2      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                         10,174           10.0       7.7      6.4      6.7      5.8       6.5       7.2      7.5      7.5      8.5     10.0
Services                         11,689            3.7       5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6       6.2      6.0      6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                        21,S60             4.3      5.2      4.6      4.8      4.2        5.4      5.2      4.9      5.1       5.8      7.0
Gross investment                    8,576             8.0      0.7     13.3      7.4      4.8        6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3       7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                  5,520            19.9     17.6      1.6      7.4     11.3       10.2     10.7     11.2     10.6      10.8     10.5
Imports of GNFS                     7,110             1.3      5.3     13.2     10.3      5.2        6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6       6.8      7.2
Gross national savings               6,665           -2.0     11.3      8.3       7.7      3.1       -        -        -         _        _        _
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                           183.6    198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9          -        -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                               7.45    7.41      7.38     7.39       7.52      -        -        _         -        -        -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                      92.6    95.8    100.0   124.6        140.3    149.9    160.0   170.5    183.3    195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                      91.6     94.2    100.0   117.4       142.2    157.0    170.8   185.2    197.1    210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 = 100)                   101.1    101.7    100.0   106.1        98.7     95.5     93.7     92.6      93.0    92.9      89.4
Shore of GDP at market prices (%)                          Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                    (at constant prices)
1960     1970     1975      1980     1985     1990      1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product               100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   130.0   100.0               5.1        6.1         5.9        6.3         7.6
Agriculture                        28.1      27.8     29.0     26.8     25.0    22.0           4.3         4.3        4.8         5.0        5.0
Industry                           25.8    29.6       33.5     35.5     37.7     40.6          6.0         8.6        7.6         7.5        9.1
Services                           46.1      42.6     37.5     37.7     37.3    37.4           5.2         5.4        5.7         6.1        7.7
Consumption                        85.3      79.2     75.8     74.5     72.4      68.7         4.8         5.5        5.2         5.2        6.5
Gross investment                    16.3     21.5     31.0     30.1      29.2     30.5         8.2        11.5        6.5         6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                     10.8     19.4     18.5      19.4     24.7     27.5          5.8        3.2        10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNF'S                   10.6      19.7     25.3     24.0     26.2    25.4           6.8         6.8        8.0         6.6        6.9
Gross natior,al savings             16.2    20.5      25.3    23.1       25.4     29.2         7.4         9.7        -           -           -
As % of GDP
1960       1970        1975       1980          Labor Force in 1978            Millions      (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                    Agriculture                    7.4       44.4
Current revenues                              9.8         9.5       13.9        12.8            Industry                      2.7        16.2
Current expenditures                          9.46       10.9       12.3        9.6            Services                       5.6        33.0
Current surplus                               0.2       -1.4         1.6        4.1            Unemployed                      1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                           2.3         1.9        3.2        3.2
Foreigc,m firnancing                          -          0.1         0.3         1.5                Total Labor Force        16.8       100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80            1980-85           1985-90
OT'.4ER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                     5.1               5.6                5.9               6.3               7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate ({)                          2.0               2.7                3.2               3.6               5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                      7.4               6.2                4.2               4.7               4.6
ICOR                                                           4.5               4.7               4.6                4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                        0.285             0.330               0.26              0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                             1.33              1.12               1.20              1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
lb  Historical figures are official estiTates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volu=e based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices,
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
November 1981



- 27 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.               Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods              3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services              5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods              3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                              260      312      355      434      500      550      610      660      730
Current Account Balance                   -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                      216      171       99       45      290      320      350      390      420
MLT loans (net)                              662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310            920
Official-source loans (net)                332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                 330      501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                       113       56    -193       593      455      300      300      300      300
Overall Balance /b                         164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -      200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                 3.5      3,6      3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                        1 376   1 968   2 385   2 047
Concessional Loans              120 18n'3 fi   't77
Bilateral                                 62       56      113      101
IDA                                        2        1        3        2
Othex multilateral                        24       63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official expoit credits                  123      121      152        8
IBRD                                      99      160      204     221
Other multilateral                        30       47       81       83
Private sources                        1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                        1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                         3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                         2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                     762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                      183      270      486      659
Payments as X of exports of goods
and services                            18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                            7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                       8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                           18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                       9.0    10.2    11.1        9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7b Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International teserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



ANNEX 1t
- 28 -                              Page l of IS pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                  Purpose                          Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
TwenIty-six Loans and three credits Fully disbursed                          485.82  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation          9.50              0.16
998-PH{  1974           "                 DBP I                              50.00               0.43
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                  61.00               0.51
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Population                         25.00               7.83
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                       17.00              2.87
1102-PH   1975           "                 Rural Development                  25.00               4.88
1154-PH   1976            '                Magat Irrigation                   42.00               5.81
1190-PH1  1976           "                 DBP II                             75.00               1.29
1224-T-PH 1976           "                 Education III                      24.73               2.23
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                   50.00             25.80
1272-T-PH 1976           "                 Manila Urban                        10.00              2.99
1282-PHE  1976                             Manila Urban                       22.00               6.58
1269-PH   1977                             Second Grain Processing            11.50               4.04
1353-PH   1977           "                 Third Highways                     95.00             44.98
1367-PH    1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                  15.00               5.55
1374-PH1   1977          "                 Fourth Education                   25.00              6.64
1399-PH1   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                  36.50             12.30
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00                 30.25
1415-PH   1977           "                 Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00                  7.89
1421-PH   1977           "                 Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.00              6.93
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                          58.00             30.63
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming            8.00               5.90
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                 30.00               5.15
1526-PIH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improxmt. TI 65.00                 48.30
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural Infrastructure                       28.00     21.09
S.8-PH   1978           "                 Education                           2.00              0.88
1347-PH    1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                 60.00               1.05
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                   15.00               1.05
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Magat II                          150.00             22.97
1572-PH   1978           "                 Industrial Investment III          80.00             25.20
1615-PH1   1979          "I                Manila Water Supply II             88.00             78.14
1626-PH   1979           "                 National Extension                 35.00             30.10
1639-PH   1979           "                 Magat River Multipurpose           21.00             14.22
1646-PH   1979           "                 Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50                 10.12
1647-PH   1979           "                 Second Urban Development           32.00             21.65
1661-PH   1979           "                 Highways IV                       100.00             97.44
1710-PH   1979           "                 Water Supply II                    16.00             16.00
920-PH   1979           "                 Water Supply II                            22.00      19.17
1727-PH   1979           "                 Small & Medium Industry II         25.00              0.36
923-PH   1979           "                 Population II                              40.00     39.30
1772-PH   1980           "                 Samar Island Rural Devel.          27.00             23.92
1786-PH   1980           "                 Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.00             37.31
1809-PH   1980           "                 Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.00             67.06
1814-PH   1980           "                 Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00                 57.18
1815-PHl   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)    12.00                11.21
1821-PH   1980           "                 Third Urban                        72.00             60.59
1855-PH   1980           I                 Third Ports                        67.00             65.11
1860-PH   1980           "                 Rural Roads Improvement            62.00             57.86
1890-PH   1981           "                 Watershed Management               38.00             36.48
1894-PH   1981           "                 Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00                 33.90
1903-PH   1981           "                 Structural Adjustment             200.00              3.96
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)             150.00            149.88
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan               100.00            100.00
2040-PH   1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                   45.00             44.97
2067-PH/a 1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Urban Engineering                       8.00              8.00
Total                                                                  2,967.55 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                              236.50
Total now outstanding                                                 2,731.05 122.20
Amount sold                                               24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                         23.06            1.28   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                2,729.77 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                      1,346.55  79.56 1,426.11
/a Not yet effective.



- 29-                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1982
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the         15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                         8.0      -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -        4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone              3.7       .8     4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0      -      15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5      -       1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.6          0.6     2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2      -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0      -       7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                      2.6      0.2     2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3      1.2     3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -       3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -       2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                     4.0      1.1     5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0      0.1     5.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business               -        0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5      -       4.5
1981         Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                  18.5       .7    19.2
1981         Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -            5.0     5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                      16.0      -      16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.4    23.4   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              53.5    12.6    66.1
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             66.9    10.8    77.7
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      0.8    35.3



- 30-                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of March 31, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project was completed on December 31, 1981 and preparation of
the Completion Report is well under way. Work on the Canili and Diayo dams
and the transbasin canal was completed in 1975, about one year ahead of
schedule. However, difficulties in the award of construction contracts
delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas which
were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. Due to cost
increases, delays in construction and reduced cropping intensity resulting
from the overall shortage of water in the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
System, the internal rate of return is expected to be considerably lower than
the appraisal estimate of 17%. The last consignments of O&M equipment are
being delivered.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 90% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works. The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Costs are higher than anticipated, partly
due to the delays referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now
likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall project execution is well advanced. The irrigation works
are substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1982. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress in project execution
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
has now improved with the mobilization of contractors on three national and
one provincial road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now
planned for mid-1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is over 90% complete. All contracts have now been awarded,
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule of June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion in June 1980, it
is now only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; and problems of right-of-way acquisition. Work on the
diversion dam was suspended for over four months because of security problems
in the area. The project is now scheduled for completion in June 1984, a
four-year delay over the appraisal estimate, and the closing date has
therefore been extended to December 31, 1984. Towards the end of 1981, in
an effort to accelerate project implementation, the National Irrigation
Administration created a special task force, reorganized and strengthened the
project organization and brought in additional equipment and materials.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the closing date is expected to be
met.  The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1983. The post-harvest study on grain losses is expected to be
completed in early 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:  May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 85% complete. Remaining major construction
activities include the improvement of the Santa Barbara diversion dam by
contract, the repairs of the existing right bank of the Jalaur diversion dam,
and on-farm facilities, including some additional works by force account. The
National Irrigation Administration expects to complete all construction works
by the end of July 1982. The Government intends to use the anticipated
balance of $4 million for the detailed engineering of the Jalaur multipurpose
storage dam for Stage II of the project. A draft feasibility report is being
reviewed by the Bank.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. To compensate
for this, in November 1979, the project's scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks); however, their impact on the disbursement rate has been modest.
Effective January 1982, the institutional arrangements for project imple-
mentation have been further widened to include private investment corporations
to lend, on a selective basis, for project-supported investments. The lending
terms have also been suitably rationalized. As a result, the pace of subloan
commitments is expected to accelerate; however, the undisbursed balance of the
loan ($12.8 million) may not be fully utilized by the extended closing date of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980 and 1981 due to inadequate and, in
certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. Corporate funds have now
been approved, and in part released, for the 1982 construction program. Final
project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.
Project benefits may be lower than estimated due to inadequate water,
particularly in Region 1. The project is now expected to be completed in
December 1984, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981. Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A recent promising start has
been made on the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in
the agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closng date by twelve months, to December 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project;
$80.0 Million Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 11, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical progress on the DBP tree farming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have reached approximately 82% of the
project's target. The BFD pine plantation component at Abra has been
seriously affected by insect attack resulting in the need to reconsider plans
for development and to initiate work on pest control measures and the use of
alternative tree species. The PCARR forestry research program is progressing
well and the draft Wood Industries Development Study has been submitted to
the Ministry of Natural Resources. Disbursement continues to be behind
schedule, principally because of procurement difficulties over vehicles,
infrastructure and equipment.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, planning and design for most of the project
works have been completed and construction is under way. Overall implementa-
tion progress is slow due to delays in finalizing the design for diversion
works and drainage systems in Regions 9 and 12, slow bureaucratic processes in
bidding and award of contracts, and inadequate and belated release of
counterpart funds in 1981. Corporate funds have now been approved for the
1982 construction season, and the project is expected to be completed in 1985.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of San Jose Port is expected to be completed
by mid-1983, allowing for the repair of typhoon damages. Work has progressed
well at the port of Culasi, but completion is delayed due the continuing
settlement of the storage platform. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind
schedule, as is construction of the irrigation components which were held up
by inadequate support facilities, ineffective farmer organizations and failure
of farmers to collaborate with project staff. However, remedial measures have
now improved the situation and the service area has been increased to about
10,400 ha. About 35 km of roads have been constructed through force account,
construction contracts have been awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. The total length of village
roads has been reduced from the appraisal estimate of 1,390 km to about 1,200
km.  Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about two years
behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservoir
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After a slow start due to the reorganization within the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the project is being further delayed by management and
financial constraints. Implementation in the regions is now the
responsibility of the Regional Directors, and performance varies depending on
the motivation of the Director. The Minister of Agriculture has now been
requested to ensure that Regional Directors are fully conversant with the
Project's objectives. The influence of the Project Manager - the Director of
the Bureau of Agricultural Extension - has been reduced since his agency
become a staff bureau. A shortage of local funds during the latter half of
1981 affected progress detrimentally. Procurement problems persist, as it is
unlikely that the President's Office will allow the import of the full quota
of vehicles designated for the project because of their increased cost and
drain on limited fuel resources. MOA will request that surplus vehicle funds



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
be used for other purposes, including additional motorcycles and visual aid
materials, and increased travel and gasoline allowances for all field
technicians. This request is expected to be received by the end of June 1982
and will be reviewed at the next supervision scheduled later in the year.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, eighteen months behind the
appraisal estimate. The major constraint is the overall shortage of local
funds which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646 Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries. The
field office reorganization and and other institution development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started sub-project
implementation. The disbursements under the infrastructure component are
expected to start in May 1982.   The loan is expected to be fully drawn by
December 31, 1983, an 18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30,
1982.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction has been delayed due to political
disturbances on the island. Port work is proceeding satisfactorily but the
irrigation program has been delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites
because of technical objections by the settlers. Alternative sites are now
being reviewed by the Bank. The construction of village wells is progressing
satisfactorily, and a pump maintenance problem was corrected by providing
specialized service tools under the project. The formation of water users'
associations, and the collection of water charges, have begun slowly but are
gaining momentum. The program of schistosomiasis control is proceeding on
schedule, as is the Catubig Valley development study.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of l1
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The consultants engaged to develop the design of the dams have now
started compiling design and construction standards for irrigation structures
and facilities. However, detailed engineering design of the diversion dams
is behind schedule due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct sub-
surface investigations. Force account works have been started. Construction
contracts have been awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Diffi-
cult working conditions in the project areas and inadequate communications
facilities have resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive
bidding from prospective contractors. This is likely to cause further delays
in the implementation schedule.
Loan No. 1815  Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which needs further
improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple cropping target of 6,000 ha under
the Kabsaka methodology has been achieved. For the success of the coming 1982
wet season target of 16,000 ha, much will depend on the effectiveness of the
farmers' training sessions, the selection of farmer leaders and the mobility
of the field staff. The mobility of the coordinating management staff has now
improved with the provision of new vehicles funded through the National
Extension Project. The project has not to date been able to purchase its own
vehicles due to restrictions imposed by the Presidential Office. Several
project components are seriously affected by the inadequacy or delay in the
allocation and/or release of local funds.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
In spite of funding restraints which affected project implementation
in 1981, the reforestation component achievement is close to target, and, with
the allocation of funds for 1982 now available, this progress should continue.
Road works are behind schedule, as vehicles and equipment procured under the
project have not yet been delivered, and the use of hired equipment has been
plagued with problems. Project staffing levels proposed by NIA have been
reduced by 32%, and the proposed salary grades of key management personnel
have also been reduced. The Bank is monitoring this situation closely to
determine its possible effect on project implementation. The contract for the
Magat Feasibility Study was signed in November 1981. The forest protection
pilot project is behind schedule due to the late release of funds in 1981.



PAGES
37 AND 38
MISSING FROM ORIGINAL



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
has met its goal of producing and distributing 84 titles to schools,
amounting to over 31 million copies. Over 56,000 teachers have been upgraded.
A delay in the completion of a central facility for the Textbook Secretariat,
resulting from change orders and price escalation, has caused a one-year delay
in project completion. Two hundred seventy thousand dollars of the loan was
cancelled in March 1982 due to misprocurement when a contract was not awarded
to the lowest bidder.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsil-ilities to recipient institutions. The closing date has now been
extended for two years to December 1983. Overall project utilization of
Technical Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship
time has been committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational
developments at IJPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some
tendency to proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing
Board of the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing
important changes in policies and programs.
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Overall physical implementation is behind schedule by about six
months mainly due to the transfer of detailed implementing responsibility from
EDPITAF to the respective project institutions, and to delays in Presidential
approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million each). Uncertainties over
where management responsibilities would lie are expected to cause further
delays. Seven of the 13 civil works contracts have now been awarded and
technical assistance is in progress. The Fellowship program is being
implemented on schedule, but the recruitment of consultants has been slow,
also affected by the transfer of implementing responsibility and the delay in
the release of the Obligation Authority for project funds to recipient
institutions.  This release is expected shortly.  The Bank has recommended
that an interministerial task force be created to review the management
difficulties and other issues which are hampering project implementation.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10,1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective in November 1981. The project has
made a good start, and project planning is proceeding well. The main



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
difficulties anticipated would arise from the Government's complicated
procurement, payment and accounting procedures. These difficulties should be
minimized by the transfer of expertise from ErPITAF to the Ministry of
Education, which is responsible for project implementation.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Tlrban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is about 90% complete and 4,800 plot titles
have been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by September 1982.  Improved
water supply is delayed and now expected by last quarter 1982. The sewer
outfall should be completed by February 1983, the R.10 road in late 1983 and
the C.2 road by april 1984. The site will be turned over to the local
government shortly.
Loan No. 1415 Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.
Loan No. 1615 Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However,
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts. A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647      Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor coordination
between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays and cost over-
runs (50% over appraisal estimates), are now being resolved. Physical works



- 41 -                      ANNFX II
page 14 of 18
are expected to be completed by early 1984, 15 months behind schedule. In
the regional cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and
political problems, work is underway on all sites and completion is expected
at the end of 1983.
Credit No. 920 Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan No. 1814 Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project: $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980;  Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.
Loan No. 1821 Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
problems of funding and land acquisition have slowed the project.
Disbursements are now 60% of that projected at appraisal, and show an
improving trend. The problem of land for sites and services is expected to
be resolved shortly and contracting is expected to start later this year.
Overall costs are stable. Progress on finalizing policies for ZIP, and
precise agreements with local governments have been slow, but are now about
to be implemented. Preparation of the next phase of basic services programs
is progressing well.
Loan No. 2067 Urban Engineering Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 26, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30,1985
This loan was signed in February 1982 and is expected to be
effective in May 1982. Most of the consultants have been selected.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by April 1982,
about four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system have been due to the slow pace of engineering design and
preparation of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised
project cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The
closing date of the loan was postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31,
1982 to allow additional time for payment of retention monies to
contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly due
to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center. The revised
project cost is now estimated at $100 million (including additional works),
8% higher than the original estimate. Due to delays in procurement, and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the
Government has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action
will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the
Bank.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Mfillion Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is substantially complete, with about $1.2 million
uncommitted. These funds are to be used by NEA for the purchase of equipment
and materials for its 1982 program. NEA's lending to cooperatives for power
development has increased by over 50% in the last two years, and its financial
results and condition continue to be satisfactory according to unaudited
financial statements for 1981. However, NEA's collation of the financial
results of its client cooperatives shows that a number are in financial
difficulties. The Bank is monitoring the situation closely, and is pressing
NEA, as the regulatory agency, to take all necessary remedial steps through
rate increases improvements in management, or other appropriate measures.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements as of March 31,
1982; stood at $24.9 million.  The project progress is satisfactory.  The
closing date might be postponed by one year to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is fully committed and disbursements ($13.9 million as of
March 31, 1982) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date might be postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress has been made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in meeting the institutional aspects of the project: the



- 44 --
ANNEX II
page 17 of 18
commercial Loan Agreement for $100 million was signed on August 7, 1981 on
favorable terms); issues discussed during negotiations relating to individual
participating financial institutions (PFIs) are being dealt with; and
subsidiary loan agreements with individual PFIs are being negotiated and
finalized (after due consultation with the Bank). Commitments by the three
participating financial institutions (PFIs) have started and good progress is
also being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far
is in line with expectations, except that the pace of commitments is slower
than anticipated at appraisal.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the second stage of this
program became effective on January 1, 1982. Studies are under way to review
and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion system; and
subsector development programs are under preparation to assist domestic
industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures.
The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were
met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently
released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance
component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of some construction in Regions 6 and 9 and water
supplies to rural health units, the project has been substantially completed.
The balance of the loan is expected to be committed by mid-May of this year,
and all works and procurement completed by the closing date of December 31,
1982. This is, however, dependent upon the release of 1982 project funding
by the Budget Ministry.  Project implementation is now being handled by the
Ministry of Health, whose performance is gradually improving following the
dissolution of the previous Project Management Service at the time of the
original closing date (December 31, 1979). A major cause for concern,
however, is the project accounting, of which very little has taken place.
This situation has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Health
and is being very closely supervised by Bank staff. All project-related
training activities and staff recruitment programs have been completed.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Information, education and communication activities are substantially com-
pleted, and management information services and technical assistance are
expected to be completed by September of this year.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover
activities of CY80 and those scheduled for 1981. The release of the 1982
project funds has been delayed, however, by the Ministry of the Budget.
All sites required for scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed,
arrangements for construction management and monitoring are being finalized
and the procedures designed to encourage community participation for Barangay
Health Station development under the first project are being applied to those
under the second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component
has attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 46 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            Six months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   RWDC and MPWH with Bank
assistance
(c)  First presentation to Bank:               April 1981
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:           November 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:               July 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            December 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would, by not later than December 31, 1983,
implement the recommendations agreed with the Bank on the sector
organization review (para. 37);
(b)  the Government would, by March 31, 1983, complete the staffing
of MPWH's and MOH's Project Management Offices, and of the
Project Implementation and Review Committee (paras. 53, 54 and
56);
(c)  RWDC would appoint one of its senior staff with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank to be responsible for
implementation of Level II systems (para. 53); and
(d)  RWDC would cause water charges to be reviewed annually in
November and the results of such review implemented in January of
the following year (para. 63).



'6     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                     20                                                    1 i
BY GEOGRAPHICAL  REGIONS                                                                                        PH  I L IPPINES
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION                                                                                     FIRST RURAL WATER SUPPLY
I ILOCOS                NE WESTERN ViSAYAS                                                                            S     N T      T O
1 ll-n 3Norm             27 Ak-nia                                                                       AND SANITATION PROJECT
2  Abra                  38 Capic
20      3  llocus Sur             39 Antique                                          8                                                                                           20'
4  Mountain              40  Bio                                                                                      ug        - -eal b iu-dare
5  La Union              41  Negros Occidental                             -        -    -                    .      Pr cal bodaies
6  Ranyg-r            JEZCENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                         _     roninee   ouRdwases
7  Pangusinon            42  Cab;                                                                                     Pr-mceI  tth  -te                ponds
CAGAYAN VALLEY           43  N,9r,s Orienhal                                                                         Roinfall Typefl
8  kat-nes               44      alRi                                                                                         '
9  Cagayan               45  Siqoi,jo '                                                                                Type A, 'Vet - Rainy in cugoco' thn year
10  Kaling,-Apoyan                                                                                                         -s,th at mst .5 dry m-nths
11   sarala             II EASTERN VISAYAS                                             |                                     00  Q43
12     4a6bo d                   e    S7-                          j       n-       'A                                  Type D, Huid - Rain vecdly dit' bnted t-ghut
13  Nueno Viscayn         47   asi a                                                                                       the year with at ma3 dr y months
14  Gui 4e La> ti                                                                                                          0 S333    0' Q 0043
IICENTRAL LUZON           49  LSyr-  Let                            I77.Tp   ,  .,     .rsfii-l  iti..    t
15  Nuana Enija            0Suhr   eyeP                             '        >Tp C, Moist    Ruind-   sufcetlyariundat
16  Tod-               lH  WESTERN MINDANAO                          i
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                bataas5 MsmisOrntl CO   thn'3wtmncthn
17  Zonnbajes             51  Zukidnoan   dl Nrte                  /                                                       0.600 n Q n 0u333
18  PaMpa.ne              52  Zamoang  del Sum                                                                          Type D  Dry   Ron -c nuflicietly d: rsilented
19  13nacan               53  talon                     .1     3    5 ,            ImInk at went 6 dry w-chs
20   Eataur               54  Suls                                                                         L                I 12  lOOnO   U0.600
TV  sOIJTHRRN TAGALOG  55  T,eituwi                            5~ 6-           N                                           Typen E, A-i d - AA .nne uny tea  octt menrs,  t wonst
21   OaQ lon             XNORTHERN  MINDANAO                k        /                                                      tner or 45  - wet months
22   RanlI                 56  S-nigoa del Nunte Htl670B  Q  oI .00
i6-   23   C-Tt~         57  C-wiqoin 7,~1
23  CLagi 1E  Ag-sn d5                   l N-nte              Man a       .          te                                  Type F, Bamn - Deflant rainfa  wipn 1-sn em
324  Lagunor es' Sur                                                                                                        thDvodlSr;      9_ 0 Iand 30 wet monthsarpovddhruh
25   Batan,n-             59  Ms-as 0-ntal                                                                                  th7 /t-h
26   Manidqe              60  Miois Os/de nl 0Su                                                                                 16'00
27   Mind-oraoinntaI       61  Bokidnon-1                                                                                Here.  uNn-b  o '  d,y -orres
28   MndnoO-cd-en          71 62  Auin danl S.r                                                                                N-bae  an wt -
29   R-hlon             XII SOUTHERN MINDAN                 is
30   Polawun               63  S-rign de1 u                                2
Ki  8100L                   64 100-20      Ori0nrai       20           . i- s
31   .--   N,      as6  D-an                                                                                     Nuta, 400 c--nucl facet water s-Pply nynte-s
32  cuoniens So'          66  D..ao delEu1- S3!                                                                                the cuontry     ,     p-det-g-
33  Catdu-n               67  S-0 t C          2tahat             -  f 34/'y
34  Albay              XII CENTRAL MINDANO                   5            N3
35  Sorsagan              66  Lana- del Narte                                                         3           33
36,,E, M.,b.t.                                                                                             33
36   Masbate      ~69  Lana  del Sot                      7N--
70  North Cutabatn                                     6 '                    S,
71  Moguinclana                         267        \
72  SoIree Kodanr-I t 
35
Ki m -               ICt          290             2                                                _.  2 
0 0   V;tSAY8S                             ;09 90                                                   :           -~~~~~~~~~~~~29 ~ 3
PAdAVI/V  /t ;;'                                            .    : ;d  .     :                           $ai/
12'      ie 0( lO                                     200                                                                                                                         12'-
I /I 41
BRUNEt~~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~          ~~~~~~ ~ /;                                                           1 0       56 \-
56 
43~~~~~~~~6
.8.,.,'                           v;, -                                                                             68fiitrayjdmss0  h ee tt s aiXn  ertr  rayedre7rro 
'3 
CHINA                                                                                     '                                                I        16
VIETN NAM          DON                            E                                    5S                                 7
'5                                                                                       0.. '                                      '  " .      :_  tn,'12s.U         14    ;D(
PAZA W4I                                          -. 
MALAYS'IATjomyaaCncryrdOt/aWnyansoarncaiayurtannnan                                                                                                                                 m-
Tauad-eaa.,uw  ou- C Pw-d byanriWp4d 0-k0 VOr aeon, y Cr Wut/an --/ie-
0.                                                                124'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,W~IB.                    1



