LOAN NUMBER 2206 PH
Project Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated                          J     ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2206 PH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     ed       , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT COR-
PORATION (hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of the Philippines (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various       currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million five hundred thousand dollars ($35,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Corporation agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation, part of the proceeds of
the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made
available to the Corporation on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the seve; 1 terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and "RWSA" means a Rural Waterworks and Sanitation
Association.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out Part A of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due


﻿-2-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Corporation to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) The Corporation shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Pro-
ject.
Section 2.04. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b)    The  Corporation  shall:   (i) maintain   records  and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon the award by the Corporation of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Corporation and the Bank, the Corporation shall prepare and fur-
nish to the Bank reports, including those referred to in Section
3.05 (d) of the Loan Agreement, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, the cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Corporation and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Corporation shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Corporation and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.05. The Corporation shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.    Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. The Corporation shall appoint an official,
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank,
to be responsible for implementation of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of


﻿-4-
the Loan, or the performance by the Corporation of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Corporation shall maintain separate
accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its oper-
ations and financial condition, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures *on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Corporation shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:


﻿-5-
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepa-
rate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and with-
drawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall cause RWSAs to: (i) levy
such charges for the Level II Systems to be installed under Part
A of the Project as shall be sufficient to cover operating and
maintenance costs, and debt service requirements; (ii) review
with the Corporation said charges annually in November; and (iii)
implement such findings of the review in January each year fol-
lowing the review as shall be necessary to meet the requirements
of subparagraph (i) above.
Section 4.04. The Corporation shall ensure that RWSAs
receiving loans from the Corporation: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements for each year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles; and (ii) make available for
review by the Bank the report of said audit within six months of
the end of each such year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of the Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the Corporation
thereof.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Corporation:
Rural Waterworks Development
Corporation
Vibal Building
865 E. de los Santos Avenue
Diliman, Quezon City
Metro Manila
Philippines
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this


﻿- 7 -
Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or executed
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as the
Corporation shall designate in writing, and the Corporation shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
B,&ing Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
RURAL WATERWORKS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       ,198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


