LOAN NUMBER 2206 PH
Loan Agreement
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2206 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    c2J       , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Rural
Waterworks Development Corporation with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to Rural Waterworks Development Corporation part of the proceeds
of the loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and Rural Waterworks Develop-
ment Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan *and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Corporation" means the Rural Waterworks Development
Corporation established pursuant to the Borrower's Executive
Order No. 577 dated January 12, 1980;


﻿-2-
(b) "Level I System" means a system of water service from a
single source suitable to supply on average to some 15 to 50
households;
(c)  "Level II System" means a system of water service
designed to supply on average to some 100 to 150 households with
one faucet per 4 to 6 households;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) "peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrcwer, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million five hundred thousand dollars ($35,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred
twenty-four thousand six hundred thirty-one dollars ($524,631).
The fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the
Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have


﻿-3-
received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw the amount allocated
to Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, and pay to itself the amount required for
the full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies speci-
fied for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
co time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Corporation to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the P-iject Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make funds equivalent to $5,000,000
out of the proceeds of the Loan available to the Corporation
under a subsid.iary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Corporation under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, prompt-
ly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the p- -pose.
Section 3.03. In order to assist in carrying out the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose selection, qua-
lifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the princi-
ples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Botrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for Parts B and C of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Parts B and C of the Project (including the cost and


﻿- 5 -
the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's represent-
atives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan-/and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning Parts B and C of the Project, the cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts B and C of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare or
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank reports through
the Corporation, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Parts B and C of the Project, the cost and the benefits to be
derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1983 complete
staffing of:
(a) the Project Implementation and Review Committee, re-
sponsible for monitoring performance and overall coordination in
implementation of the Project;
(b) the Project Management Office in its Ministry of Public
Works and Highways, responsible for source development in respect
of Levels I and II Systems; and
(c) the Project Management Office in its Ministry of
Health, responsible for implementation of the sanitation compo-
nents of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rower.


﻿- 7 -
(d) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the f ore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on public
assets, and to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the
limits of the laws in force in its territories to make this
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the Ministries or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts B and C of the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
Section 4.03. In order to ensure continued efficient opera-
tion of the rural water supply systems constructed under the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall make satisfactory arrangements in its
regional level workshops to carry out major maintenance of said
systems, and shall ensure the provision of adequate staff and
funds for such purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of in-
creasing efficiency in the development of rural water supply
sector, (i) review by April 30, 1983 the roles of various govern-
ment Ministries and agencies dealing with said sector; and (ii)
implement by December 31, 1983 such recommendations arising from
said review as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Corporation shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation of the Corporation under the Pro-
ject Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation or for the suspension of the operations
of the Corporation.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and the Corporation; and
(b) the event specified in parao,raph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General ,,,di-
tions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c), of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Corporation, and is legally binding upon the Cor-
poration in accordance with its terms; and (b) that the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and the Corporation and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date2                   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of th, General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:
MINFIN
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                               1-
Aifl Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated        % and rates of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment and           16,450,000
materials
(a) directly                               100% of foreign
imported                              expenditures
(b) locally                                100% of local
manufactured                          expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally                               65%
procured
(2) Civil works                                in pesos equi-
valent to:
(a) wells               1,000,000         $100.00 per well
(b) toilet units        6,000,000         $8.00 per com-
pleted unit
(c) workshops             110,000          $9,000.00 per
completed main-
tenance workshop
(d) stabilization         200,000          $17,000.00 per
ponds                                 completed pond
(e) Level II          3,300,000            $750.00 per com-
Systems                               pleted design and
$7,500 per com-
pleted System


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % and rates of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3) Consultants'           4,350,000             100%
services
(4) Training                 450,000
(a) foreign                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) local                                   30% of local
expenditures
(5) Fee                      524,631             Amount due
(6) Unallocated            3,115,369
TOTAL      35,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages and rates have been calculated
in compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan derreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage or
rate then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
4.   Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments r 'e for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages and rates set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage or rate of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may conti-
nue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in imple-
menting a program of improving public health in rural areas
through provision of safe water supply and excretion disposal
systems. The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   (i) Coordination of rural water supply and sanitation
activities under the Project.
(ii) Installation   of  about   400  Level  II  Systems,
including provision of vehicles, equipment and
materials.
Part B:   (i) Construction   of   about  9,700  Level  I   Systems
comprising about 4,500 shallow wells and about
2,300 deep wells, and the rehabilitation of about
2,900 existing wells, and source development for
about 400 Level II Systems, including provision of
vehicles, equipment and materials.
(ii) Construction   and  equipping  of  about 12 rural
water supply systems' maintenance workshops.
(iii) Carrying out of research in testing of handpumps,
well screens and other equipment required for
water supply systems.
(iv) Procurement   of  and   training  in   the  use  of
micro-computer equipment.
(v) Training in the design, construction, management,
operation and maintenance of water supply and
sanitation systems.
(vi) Construction of about 750,000 toilet units.
(vii) Provision of chemicals for the disinfection of
wells; and provision of vehicles, equipment and
materials for supervision of construction under
Part B (vi) and for health education.
(viii) Construction   and  performance  monitoring  of  12
waste stabilization ponds.


﻿- 15 -
Part C:   Preparation of solid waste management, flood control
and drainage projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1988
through   June 1, 2002                      1,185,000
On December 1, 2002                               1,135,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiuns on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                              1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          3.50%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                            6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         9.30%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                       10.45%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                               11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977(hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-facbory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Philippines if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
F value added in the Philippines equal to at least
zO of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in conection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 20 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Specialized computer equipment and related services up to an
equivalent of $20,000 in aggregate may be procured after obtain-
ing quotations from at least three independent suppliers or manu-
facturers, in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
2.   Civil works may be carried out through local contracts or
force account or voluntary labor.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to contracts for equipment, each estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 21 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 02's,    day of    L, 198 Z.
FORSECRETARY


