Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7780
PROJECT CIMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 925-IN)
MAY 22, 1989
Agriculture Division
Asia Technical Department
This document has a resicted distfibution and may be used by reipients only In the performnce of
their officfal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withot Wordd Bank authodzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal Year (1979)                     US$. = Re  8.6
1980                                             Rs  7.9
1981                                             Rs  9.1
1982                                             Rs  9.7
1983                                             Rs 10.5
1984                                             Rs 12.5
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ACCF      -  Additional Chief Conservatory Forests
ACF       -  Assistant Conservator of Forests
CCF       -  Chief conservator of Forests
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
FAO       -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP    -  Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Programme
FD        -  Forest Department
FEW       -  Forest Extension Worker
GOI       -  Government of India
GOUP      -  Government of Uttar Pradesh
IDA       -  International Development Association
IFS       -  Indian Forest S2rvice
MEU       -  Monitoring and Evaluation UJnit
NABARD    -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NCA       -  National Commission on Agriculture
NCAER     -  National Commission on Agricultural Economics/Research
NREP      -  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
PIR       -  Plannidg and Information Resources Office
PQLI      -  Physical Quality of Life Index
RLGEP     -  Rural Landlers Employment Guarantee Program
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SCF       -  Standard Conversion Factor
SFD       -  State Forest Department
T&V       -  Training & Visit
TER       -  Training, Extension and Research
UP        -  Uttar Pradesh



FoaOFFICIAL US OLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washmnton. O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ok. .6 Oitm-G4r
May 22, 1989
KIOzXRAU W  TO THE EUCUTIVI DIRo CTORS AND ThU PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report or Tndia
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project
(Credit 925-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Report on India Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project
(Credit 925-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No further evalu-
ation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has been
made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banc authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 925-IN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  .........................................                                                     i
Basic Data Sheet                     ................... o..........................._.o.             li
Evaluatlon Sumwmry                                     *.......  0    0....  00...............-...................  $ii
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT BY IDA PROJECT STAFF  ..                     .........................             1
A.    Project Objectives                    .......             ............. .             1
B.    Implementation  ......................................                                3
C.    Operating Performance  ...... .   . .  . ....  ........... *.                         4
D.    Production and Distribution of Benefits   ...............                             9
E.    Marketing of Project Output  ...........................                              9
F.    Organizationul Issues  ........                 ........ ......*..  * * * ...  .    10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT  .........................................                                  12
I .    INTRODUCTION  ............................               .............              12
A.   Brief Account of Forestry Sector in India  .........                           12
B.   Sector Issues  ..............  .. .... ............. ....                     14
C.   Sector Problems  .... .         6.4*  .............. ..............           16
II.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION,  PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  .....                            18
A.   Origin                       ..............          ...      .....           18
B.   Preparation and Appraisal  ..... ....................                         19
C.   Project Objectives  and Description  ................                         20
III.    IMPLEMENTATION  ........ o......... ........................                         23
A.   Start-Up  ......................................................              23
B.   Revisions  ..... ...................................                          23
C.   Implementation Schedule  ...........................                          23
D.   Reporting  ....................................................               23
E.   Procurement  . ..... .                        ... . ...*...............       23
F.   Costs and Financial Resources  ..... ................                         24
G.   Performance of Consultants,  Contractors,
Suppliers  ..........................................                      26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)                                                      Page No.
IV.    OPERATING PERFORMANTCE ......... . . . . .. . . .  .... ...........     26
As  Farm Forestry           ...............                             26
Be NWirseries  ..o..........e 29
Co  Ex%;cnslon                              ....... ,30
D.  Self-Help Village Woodlots ....... ................                 30
E.  Supervised Community Woodlots .....................                 31
F.  Rehabilitated Degraded Forest .......             ..............    32
G.  Strip Plantations ............................................      33
H.  Pilot Tassar Production Component .o .....*a****.....               33
I.  Efficient Wood-Burning Stoves .....................                 34
J.  Research so.... osooo. , .......................so ......           34
K.  Training ............*.O....**00..                           ....   35
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ...........................   ...                 35
A.  Financial Results ................. ............ . *.               35
Bo  Rate of Return          .      ................... s                36
VI.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT .............                 36
A.  Policy and Support ................................                 36
B.  Staffing 00.0 ......................    ......... **s*oo.......     37
C.  Nurseries ......................o...oo ..... .................      38
D.  Support Services ................. ........                         38
E.  Management and Organizational Effectiveness .......                 39
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..............*..... ....    ..                         39
'3III.   CONCLUSIONS .................. o..................... ... e,........     41
IX.    EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES .....                 42
ANNEXES
1.   Total Physical Achievements                ............................  43
2.   List of Publications Prepared by Forest Department
on Social Forestry . ........  ... ...................                44
3.   Land Use in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh ..................                 45
3a.   Year-Wise Financial Progress            ..........................       46
3b.   Actual Expenditure from 1979180 until June 1984    .......               47
4.    Product Type Percentage of Trees Planted and
Proportional Area Covered (1979 to 1984) ............                 48
5.   Total Estimated Production  .... .............................. o...o    49
6.    Benefit Streams by Product ............................                 50
7.   Economic Analysis (Tables)           ............................        51
ATTACHMENTS
I-It   Comments from Ministry of Environment & Forests
III   Comments from Ministry of Finance
MAP: IBRD 14120R



- i -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 925-IN)
Preface
Attached are the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Uttar
Pradesh (UP) Social Forestry Project, prepared by the UP Forest Department,
and a PCR Overview prepared by IDA's Asia Technical Department.
The Project entailed a credit for US$23 million, which became effec-
tive January 3, 1980. Tne original project Closing Date of March 1984 was
extended to December 1984, at which time the Credit was fully disbursed.
An IDA mission visited UP in October 1985 to discuss the Borrower's
draft PCR. Forest Department staff met with IDA staff again on December 11,
1985 in Delhi, to further finalize the draft. It' was decided to arrange
assistance of an economist from FAO to provide more in-depth cost/benefit
analysis; that economist visited UP during the last two weeks of March 1986.
The draft report has been read by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED), and copies were sent to the Borrower and its agencies for
comments irn January 1989. Comments received were incorporated in the text
and appear as Attachments I - III.



-11.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 926-IN)
Ba"ic Data Shoet
KUS PROJIICS DATA
Apprtmisal                                       Actual an
stmtote                     Actual               Z of SAR
Total Project Cost (US$ *illion)                   46.5                       46.5                  1002
Credit 4ount (USS Million)                         23.0                       23.0                  1002
Date of Board Approval. Cmo/day/yr)                                         06/05/79
Date of Effectivenes  (mo/day/yr)                                           01/08/80
Date Physical Componnto Completed (ao/daylyr) 03/31/84                      12/31/84
Credit Closing Date (Io/dy/yr)                    12/31/84                  12/31/64
iconomic Rate of Return                             12.42 *                   lt41
Institutional Porfooance                                                      good
STAFF INPUTS (Staff weeks)
FY78   FY79    MO8    MI1 -FS82   "83   t84   n8S   n6    W"8            mE
Pr_ppraidal                                         6,4
Apprdeal                                           77 1
Negotiation                                         0.6
Superviion                                                10.2    8.3   15.8   18.4    3.2   10.55   3.2
Other (lAO/CP)                               7.5                   0.6           0.3
Total                                        7.5   84.1   10.2     .9  15.8   18.4    3.2   10.55   3.2
CUlATIVE DIS3URSNTS
180      M81    182   1n83    FY84         85
Appraisal d   ti8tto tUSS million)                 0.5      2.7     6.4    11.2    16.5    23.0
Actual (USS *illion)                               1.3      4.5     9.0    13.7    19.2    23.0
f-tual ma 2 of Estimate                            260      167     141     122      116     100
, ce of Final Disburements Jan. 18. 1985
MISSION DATA
Date                  go. of   kandayv   Specialiation    Performance                Type  of
(mo/ar)     Sent by   Persons  in Pield  R4su*ft*d  /o   Retina   /b   Trend /    Proble  
Identification      05-06/78       FAO/CP        2         30      B
Preparation             09/78      FM1/CP        3         54      B.,
Aproi  l                10/78        IDA         5         110     A.B.C.9
Appraisal follo-up    03/79          IDA         2                 1,5
Supervision I           02/80        IDA         1           6     A                    I            -
Supervision IL          11/80         IDA        3          18     A.B.C                1            2            -
Suprvision III          12/81        oD          2          12     A.C                  2            2            P
Supervision IV          04/82        IDA         3          18     A.D                  2            3            F It 0
Supervision V           12/82         IDA        4          24     B.D.                2             1           N 0 T
Supervision VI          12/83         IDA        1           4     A                    2            1            P
Supervision VII         01/84        IDA         2          8      A.1                  I            I            T
Suporvi  on VIII        09/84        IDA         2         34      B.E                  2            2            I
Completon           04-05/86       FAO/CP        1          23     a
OTHER PROJBCT DATA
Borrower                   : Govermont of India,Goverment of Uttcr Pradesh
fiscal Year of Borrmer   : April I - March 31
Ieee of Currency           : Rupees (Re.)
Currency Exchange Rates: Appreisal Year US$l = Re 8.60
Intervening Years Averoge:  YY79    US$l a  R   8.10
n180    US$1 a t     7.90
ne8    US$1    Re 8.95
1182    US$1 u  Re 9.65
FY83    US$1 =  Ra 10.30
FM84    USSI =  Ra 11.90
Ms85    US$1 *  Rs 12.20
p186    US$1 =  Re 12.40
1. A - Agriculture. B - forestry. C - Sociology. D - Rural Dvelopant. B - Economics. P - Consultant.
C - Financial Analysis
/b  I - Problem-free or Minor Problems. 2 - Moderate Problemos. 3 - MAjor Problem
1c   - Improving: 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating
7  F   financial; N - Manegeti; T - Tecbuical  P   Political; 0 - Other
*ROR analysis exclud'd farm forestry.



- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 925-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        The Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project represented one of the
first two IDA investments in Indian social forestry, the other being the
Gujarat Community Forestry Project. IDA involvement now extends to nine
states in India including follow-up projects in both Uttar Pradesh and
Gujarat. Tais project reflects much of the experience of the broader IDA
investmenL, and many of the lessons discussed below have been incorporated
into the design of recent projects.
Objectives
2.        The major task of the state Forest Department handling the tree
plantation program was to encourage local appreciation for trees and partici-
pation in activities. To support the programs, the Forest Department was to
strengthen its capacity for extension, research, and monitoring and evalua-
tion.
3.        The Uttar Pradesh project was appraised in March 1979 and became
effective January 1980, with an IDA credit of US$23.0 million.
Project Implementation
4.        The project started up promptly and progressed on a timely basis.
It closed as scheduled in December 1984, being disbursed faster than either
the appraisal estimate or thte South Asian profile disbursement rate. Credit
amount was fully disbursed.
5.        There were revisions in project design, determined during the mid-
term review. The fuel-efficient stove component was dropped and funds trans-
ferred to the planting program.
Operational Results
6.        Far surpassing original expectations, the component for plantation
of trees by farmers on their private land was extraordinarily successful (tar-
get of 8 million seedlings to be distributed and achievement of 354 million).
While motivation for farm forestry had been expected to be production of fuel-
wood and other materials for home consumption, farm forestry's success was due
to commercial incentives. The success brought new unanticipated issues,
including potential environmental risks, need for better marketing arrange-
ments, and weakness of research with regard to agroforestry and other tree
management methods.



- iv -
7.        ro support the expanding interest in private planting, the project
moved toward small decentralized (accessible) nurseries, and intensified
extension. Further qualitative improvements are still needed in areas such as
research, extension and monitoring and evaluation.
8.        As for the community plantation components, the Forest Department
did best with "supervised woodlots" where its staff performed the work. But
communities did not take over management as hoped, for a variety of economic
and sociological reasons. The "self-help woodlots" schemes never really took
off for the same reasons, and the fact that poor people would not volunteer
labor as expected.
9.        Predictably, the Forest Department capably handled the technical
side of plantations on government lands. However on the social side, it has
been slow to consolidate arrangements for distribution of benefits.
Findings and Lessons
10.       The issue arises of how much responsibility should be transferred
away from government, as has already begun with farm forestry and establish-
ment of contract nurseries. There is a fundamental financial consideration
since these Departmental plantations are about five times as expensive as
farmers planting on their own land, given the high labor costs incurred by
Forest Department. This would seem to imply that, to the extent that wood
production can be handled economically on private lands or through similar
means (para. 12), Forest Departments should turn over that responsibility.
They could then focus on areas where Forest Department must still be involved,
for instance production of fuelwood or assistance to the poor in meeting sub-
sistence needs for wood, and provision of technical expertise for plantation
and nursery operation.
11.       Forest Departments have begun to experiment with new plantation
approaches, a key one being tree tenure schemes, whereby poor farmers and
landless persons lease public lan.1 at nominal _ees and take the benefits of
the trees they grow there.  Uttar Pradesh is trying such an arrangement in its
follow-on project.
12.       Not only should social forestry look toward the supply side of the
equation, but also toward demand. Fuel-efficient stoves are recognized as an
effective way of reducing wood demand, when stoves are appropriately designed
and installed. At this time UP has made no headway with stoves.
13.       Social forestry experience has -aised several questions about the
organization of forestry. Some functions which can be handled better by the
private sector (e.g., some commercial production), or by other organizations
(e.g., field contacts by agricultural extension, seedling distribution and
stoves by NGOs, etc.) should be released by the Forest Department. This also
avoids building an overly large, expensive forestry bureaucracy.



14.       On the whole, the project was well conceptualized.  Social forestry
was still being pioneered during this project; however, the overwhelming suc-
cess of farm forestry could not be anticipated. Also, social forestry may
need to evolve as public awareness grows. For example, strip plantations have
been effective in introducing not only to the public but also to the Forest
Department the idea of trees for public benefit; thus, despite their lower
rates of return, strip plantations still serve a useful purpose as social
forestry begins to evolve. The one component based on erroneous assumptions
was village woodlots; communities were often unable to take on organizational
responsibilities for woodlots, or had poor incentives because woodlots were
too small to yield benefits or else benefits were unclear. Also, land was not
always available.
Sustainability
15.       Uttar Pradesh has launched expansive plantation and seedling distri-
bution programs through various schemes, of which IDA financing is only one
part. The public demand for these programs has grown over the last ten years,
as has Forest Department commitment to meeting that demand. In terms of quan-
tity of trees planted and output produced, UP has the capability to handle its
own programs and even teach others.
16.       There are, however, qualitative aspects for which the Department has
not established so firm a capacity; the strengthening of qualitative perfor-
mance has comprised a major justification for follow-on IDA lending to social
forestry in Uttar Pradesh. First, institutional weaknesses have resulted in
poor delivery of advice to farmers, inefficiencies, etc. Second, little
effort has been put into the distribution and marketing aspects of tree pro-
duction. Third, subsistence fuel needs of the poor, and urban population fuel
needs, have not been satisfactorily addressed.
Bank Performance
17.       The project was generally well conceptualized.  No one could have
anticipated the substantial response to farm forestry; the appraisal mission
did overestimate the direct costs for farm forestry (seedling production).
Regarding the village woodlots component, the appraisal miszion might have
foreseen common property problems, particularly in the self-help woodlot
schemes which IDA pressed in spite of forestry officials' misgivings.
18.       Supervisions occurred fairly regularly, and a useful exchange of
views between mission members and forestry officials often occurred. A number
of forestry officials took increasing initiative and responsibility over the
five years, even helping supervise and formulate other IDA projects once they
left their social forestry positions.
19.       IDA showed flexibility during project implementation and allowed the
project to adopt new ideas (e.g., kissan nurseries), and to modify concepts
(e.g., self-help village woodlots components).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 925-IN)
Overview
1.        The Social Forestry Directorate of the Uttar Pradesh Forest Depart-
ment has prepared a full Project Completion Report in keeping with the Bank
guidelines. This section covers issues which warrant further discussion from
the Bank perspective, including questions about the appropriateness of
original project objectives and design.
A. Project Objectives
2.        The original project targets provided for plantation of 48,600 ha on
public and village lands in Uttar Pradesh (UP). The project, which was to be
administered by the State Forest Department, was to employ laborers from the
poorest section of the population. In UP, only a little over 5,000 ha were
expected to be planted by farmers privately following the distribution of some
8 million seedlings. Benefits were conceptualized as production of fuel,
fodder and other products for home consumption, generation of employment and
environmental stabilization. Of the 12,125,000 mt of total production
anticipated in UP, 882 was expected to comprise fuelwood, grass and leaf
fodder. The remaining production was to consist of timber, fruits, oilseeds
and edible flowers and cottage industry materials. Thus, the overwhelming
proportion of production was expected to be utilized for subsistence purposes
such as fuelwood and fodder.
3.        Clearly the Project was viewed essentially as a Government rural
development effort, where the "beneficiaries" were enjoined to participate
"first in planning, then protection of the village forest, and later in man-
agement and harvesting." The self-help woodlots components were to guide the
way for later phases of the social forestry program, although they still aimed
at production of subsistence materials.
4.        But several things were beyond the perception of either the Bank or
the State Forest Department at the time of appraisal. First, commercial
incentives for personal profit emerged as the most powerful drive for tree
planting; eventuall Dover 350 million seedlings were distributed in UP during
the project period,-' far exceeding the 8 million original target. Not only
were expectations low on total demand, but also on commercial potential. Many
farmers have said they prefer to sell the trees they grow, and continue using
home materials (dung, agricultural wastes, etc.) and residuals from the trees
for subsistence purposes. This had not been expected.
1/ Including 134 million directly under the project, and the remainder
through additional schemes but implemented by staff provided by the IDA
project.



5.        Related to the unanticipated commercial incentive was the fact that
communities did not show much motivation or ability to gradually take over
management and protection of community woodlots, which were intended to deal
essentially with subsistence needs. However, it should be noted that there
was a misperception regarding peoples' incentives to volunteer their labor for
subsistence benefits provided by village woodlots.
6.        The project started up just before "social forestry" began to gain
its exceptional momentum in India. The Forest Department's relationship to
the rural public in the past had been one essentially of policing. The Forest
Department did not expect the public to take such a positive view toward
growing trees; just educating farmers to appreciate social forestry was
considered a major objective in the project. The skepticism about public
responsibility has continued, although to a declining degree; it has contribu-
ted toward some foresters' reluctance to hand over management of community
plantations to the local communities. When rural cowmunities are not
motivated to assist in community woodlots, and foresters are not anxious to
hand them over to local people, then implementation is impaired.
7.        What factors have given rise to this situation?  To begin with,
India has become very rapidly a leader in the social forestry field, and we
have noted that these projects commenced only at the beginning of the Indian
experience. Second, it seems that Bank and Indian economists alike overesti-
mated the demand for fuelwood. They may have failed to factor in sufficiently
the amount of home materials that were used and would continue to be used.
Recent surveys have shown that woody material from twigs, bushes and fallen
trees constitutes about two thirds of total fuelwood consumption. Further-
more, lops and tops from trees grown commercially are also used for fuel and
fodder.
8.        The project, which has a good economic rate of return (19Z), shows a
number of lessons which could be used in the design of future social forestry
projects, including:
(a) to the extent that markets are accessible and prices for wood prod-
ucts ara attractive, commercial incentives for growing will consti-
tute a powerful incentive for planting and for public participation;
however, Forest Department plantings will to some extent help
generate interest and demonstrate know-how;
(b) private planting, especially for commercial purposes, induces
greater public motivation for protection. Furthermore, it costs
about one fifth the amount per tree of Forest Department-handled
plantations; thus, private planting should receive continued support
in the future;
(c) village woodlots seem workable only under special sociological con-
dit: ns, and therefore, any efforts to increase community responsi-
bility will demand particular attention in project design;
(d) to support expanded private planting, the number of small, decen-
tralized nurseries should be expanded; some nurseries can be run on



a contract or private basis and this should be encouraged where
feasible;
(e) the greeter emphasis accorded to private plantings means that exten-
sion services for tree planting will have to be strengthened
considerably;
(f) Bank and borrower need to differentiate, at an early stage, their
production objectives from their welfare goals; private planting may
not incorporate any special benefits for the poorest farmers and
landless rural persons, but is justified because of increased
production and increased income benefits; however, to provide
subsistence materials or specific benefits to the extremely poor,
special project components would be necessary.
Much of experience gained ander the project has been incorporated in Indian
National Social Forestry Project now underway (Cr. 1611-IN), in which UP is
qne of the participating states.
B. Implementation
9.        A major issue concerning the original project concept, which is not
discussed by the Borrower's PCR, is the concept of charging for seedlings
distributed for private planting. UP adopted differing policies on seedlings.
The SAR noted that, "In order to avoid waste, a nominal price of Rs 0.10 would
be charged for polypot plants (mostly fuel species) and of Rs 0.25 for pindi
plants (such as fruit trees). The level of this charge would be reviewed in
the course of project execution" (SAR, para. 2.17). The Mid-term Review noted
that this had become a controversial subject. While the Treasury and the
Ministry of Economic Planning had issued a directive urging the Forest Depart-
ment to move towards cost recovery in its charge for seedlings given for
private distribution, Bank staff were suggesting that to provide some
incentive a certain number of seedlings be given free "to any farmer
interested in tree planting" (Mid-term Review, para. 16); above that limit,
the Bank supported maintaining a nominal charge.
10.       Later, when the Bank was formulating the National Social Forestry
Project (1984/85), the Bank defined its position more fully. The Bank urged
that a certain number of trees (those needed to meet a family's subsistence
needs) be given free, and for the remainder the states charge seedlings equal
to the tull direct cost of production. This policy was to apply to all
seedlings distributed throughout the state. While such states such as Gujarat
had reservations about the idea of charging for seedlings, Uttar Pradesh was
already well on its way to cost recovery, assessing Rs 0.25 per containerized
seedling (compared to direct production cost of about Rs 0.35-0.40). Rather
than providing some Project-financed seedlings free, UP instead opted to
purchase a certain number of the seedliLgs with funds from the Small and
Marginal Farmers Scheme (sponsored by GOI), and distributing these seedlings
free to eligible participants. Districts with larger numbers of eligible par-
ticipants distributed larger numbers of seedlings through this Scheme.
11.       Evidence shows that it took the Bank some time to define its policy



- 4 -
on seedling pricing and on the distribution of free seedlings. Experience
also shows that a policy of charging for some seedlings and not the others
complicates record keeping and leads to some misrepresentations. At this
time, it is not too clear whether charging for seedlings aotivates farmers to
take only the number needed, thus providing them with better care. Also, it
is not too clear to what extent free seedling distribution is necessary, at
least in the beginning.
12.       Bank social forestry in the broader contest of the entire social
forestry programs was not dealt with directly until the preparation and
appraisal of the National Social Forestry Project. During implementation of
the initial projects, there were at least five schemes besides the IDA-
financed projects supporting social forestry, including four GOI centrally
sponsored schemes (Rural Fuelwood Program, Drought-Prone Areas Program, Small
and Marginal Farmers Scheme, and National Rural Employment Program) and the
state schemes. Of the 462,012 ha planted in UP during the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85, covering the project period), the IDA-financed project
accounted for just over 20Z of trees planted, and almost 23X of the overall
financial outlay in these schemes. It should be noted that the various
schemes have in fact adopted different approaches, varying plantation
criteria, seedling pricing, etc.
13.       The above suggests that the Bank has to take account of the broader
forestry context and policy framework in project design. For instance, if the
Bank would insist on seedlings pricing based on actual cost, free seedlings
might still be available without restriction under another scheme, which would
only undercut farmer participation in the Bank-financed nurseries. Another
lesson may be the need for more active coordination among schemes, even though
Bank experience has shown consistently the difficulties in trying to achieve
interagency coordination.
14.       The Bank provides a substantial amount of organizational support for
social forestry. The percentage of project costs devoted to management,
staffing, research, extension and training in Bank-financed projects has
ranged from 302 up to nearly 702 (the latter in the first UP project); the
average runs about 30-35Z (Annex 2). By contrast, most GOI centrally
sponsored schemes provide a maximum of 5S of total costs for organizational
support. It is conceivable that the staff, resources and support activities
irom the Bank-financed projects are often utilized to implement other
schemes. The Bank should use this as a leverage to promote a more uniform
approach to social forestry development.
C. Operating Performance
Farm Forestry
15.       The project completion report does not mention the environmental and
economic issues which have arisen with the vastly increased number of trees
planted on private lands. However, this subject deserves mention because it
has affected social forestry in this, and other projects. Fears have been
expressed that: (a) the Eucalyptus species has been overemphasized for farm
fo-istry distribution; (b) forest departments have promoted private planting



to feed large wood industries; (c) fast-growing species planted on farmers'
lands may lower the water table or have other undesirable environmental
effects; (d) the plantation of large numbers of the same species risks all the
undesirable repercussions of monoculture; (e) good agricultural land providing
essential food crops has been converted over to tree growing;_ and (f)
agricultural labor has been displaced since tree growing need much less labor
input than crops. At a conference on the subject of eucalyptus planting held
in Southern India in 1984, the only point of consensus for participants was
the lack of sufficient research to prove either the presence or absence of
ill-effects on farmers' land.
16.       Since then, the British ODA has embarked on a special research
project to systematically study the effects of fast-growing species on sites
and crops, and other research initiatives have been started in various places
in India. While definitive results take some time to emerge in the case of
tree trials, evidence now available indicates that environmental risks--and
benefits--depend on the agroclimatic conditions and management methods under
which trees are grown.
17.       What is the experience in this regard from the Uttar Pradesh
project? Farmers have shown a marked preference for species like eucalyptus
because they are fast-growingr coppicing, not browsed by livestock except for
very young seedlings and, at present, have an attractive market value. Even
when the Forest Department has urged farmers to take a variety of seedlings,
they still express their preferences. But to be objective, extension under
the projects has been weak, as both the Bank Mid-term Review and the PCR have
pointed out, both in terms of the scope and regularity of contacts, and the
quality of recommendations. Future projects should strengthen extension,
develop better information on the effects of fast-grcwing species (this
depends on research outcomes), and formulate recommendations which make sense
technicelly and yet still respond to farmers' priorities. The Research
Department in Uttar Pradesh has, in fact, led the way during the project
period in some trials with fast-growing species regarding root competition
from eucalyptus, etc.
18.       The UP project completion report brings up the issue of equity in
farm forestry, noting that larger farmers have continued to take a dispropor-
tionately higher number of seedlings; the share of smaller farmers did
improve, however, during implementation. Bank missions consistently articula-
ted their concern that distribution should be more equitable. Besides the
fact that larger farmers have more land (and thus also more land not given
over to subsistence agricultural crops, and available for tree planting) for
planting more trees, the participation rates have in fact been lower for small
and marginal farmers. It is not reprehensible that a large number of seed-
lings went to larger farmers; but an additional number should go to small and
marginal ones. There are reasons why this did not happen during the first
Project, for example, the relative lack of access to nurseries and weakness of
extension.
2/   Annex 3 shows that only a small proportion of farmland has been planted
with trees.



-6-
Extension
19.       The UP PCR describes weaknesses in extension recommendations and
organization (UP PCR, para. 4.09). Bank missions had seen the need for more
intensive extension. Could the Borrower and Bank have better anticipated the
needs in this area? As noted before, no one expected that the farm forestry
response would be so strong. But on the other hand, no one envisioned a need
for comprehensive field extension either. The UP SAR provided for five
Communication Units to motivate farmers to plant trees, one in each region,
each staffed with a sociologist, three rangers (one each to handle audiovisual
services, village training, and improved stoves), and a film projectionist.
The "publicity/extension" function of the units involved production of films
to be shown by mobile units (UP SAR, para. 2.23). Forest Extension Workers
(450) were provided for field operations, but their tasks were articulated in
ter-ms of physical planti.g targets (maximum 25 ha departmental/community
plantations each). The Communications Units were never formed, although a
central imit oversaw communication work. And the field staff (predictably, in
retrospect) favored the visible, easier work on plantations to unfamiliar
field contacts with farmers. All this illustrates that the original extension
designs were not sufficient to provide for substantive contact and effective
feedback on farmers' needs and progress.
20.       By 1984, Bank staff concluded that social forestry extension should
be coordinated with the T&V system of agricultural extension, for three main
reasons: first, T&V already had a large field staff whose sole job was to
regularly contact farmers and bring them recommendations; second, linkages
with the T&V system would help coordinate forestry and agriculture
recommendations$ and avoid potential for conflicting informaticn; third,
forestry could avoid building a large field bureaucracy which was beyond its
capacity to support. While Gujarat led the way in coordination of social
forestry and T&V extension, this was only star.ed after the first forestry
project in UP because of T&V extension's late introduction to that States
However, it should be recognized that the T&V system only addresses farmers,
and therefore other provisions must be made in social forestry to meet the
needs of the landless.
Nurseries
21.       Another factor which contributed to less participation in tree
planting by small and marginal farmers was the relatively small number of nur-
series, especially in the first years of the Project. The UP Forest Depart-
ment relied on one centralized nursery for each of the 140 project ranges;
only 50 existing nurseries were utilized in the beginning. Even with one nur-
sery per range, the nursery would be serving over 1,000 ktm2 on the average.
But experience over the last five years has shown that small and marginal
farmers will normally walk no farther than 2-3 km to collect seedlings; larger
farmers have vehicles, or can afford to pay for transportation. Thus, the
impact of this first project in UP was to demonstrate that broad-based farm
forestry required a decentralized network of (smaller, by implication)
nurseries; this has been incorporated in the design of the second-phase
project in UP.



- 7 -
22.       Forest Department officials in states such as UP initially expressed
reservations about whether contract or private nurseries would produce poor-
quality seedlings and whether there would be adequate incentives for partici-
pation. Concerning the choice between coi;tract and private nurseries, experi-
ence implies that whenever contract/private operators can manage nurseries
(perhaps, particular speciss) as well as the Forest Department, then the
Department should take steps to transfer responsibility. In fact, the UP
Forest Department has, on its own initiative in the second-phase project,
arranged credit for private nursery operation and intends to encourage this on
a large scale. Government reservations stem from the old perceptions that
Forest Departments are the only source capable of providing high-quality
planting material. Experience shows, however, that for certain species
results are equally good or better in private nurseries.
23.       Another feature of nurseries not foreseen is the important potential
they have had in serving as points for extension, where farmers collecting
seedlings could receive advice on the spot as to species selection, care, etc.
Woodlots
24.       The Project Completion Report by the Borrower mentions two reasons
for problems in the supervised and self-help woodlots schemes: poor quality
of land and competing uses for land. There are other factors which have
affected the viability of the woodlots concept as well. One of the fundamen-
tal problems has been the failure of the Forest Department in handing over
responsibility for managenent of the woodlots--and the failure of communities
to take that responsibility. First, communities may lack interest or organi-
zational capability to manage woodlots.  As with management of common property
resources generally, social fractionalization (e.g., strong caste divisions)
makes it difficult to reach consensus on how land should be used and who
should receive benefits.
25.       Secondly, incentives involved may not be attractive, which is often
the case when the amount of wood to be produced is too small to motivate
people. Sometimes this happenied because the woodlots were small and the num-
ber of beneficiaries high; for the future, the lesson is that larger woodlot
areas (or smaller number of beneficiaries) should be provided, although this
may be difficult when much land is not available for woodlots to begin with
(uncultivated land has often been assumed free for woodlots, when in fact it
is subject to a number of usufruct rights such as grazing and fuel collec-
tion). Another important factor which undercuts incentives is the fact that
Forest Departments expect to take a high percentage of the wood harvest in
order to recover costs--in UP this is estimated to be 70% or more of produce
from these woodlots (estimate given by the October, 1985 supervision
mission). This has happened because maintenance, protection, etc.--tasks
which theoretically should have been taken over by the community--continued to
be done by the Forest Department, for reasons listed in para. 6. It is hard
to imagine that communities will want to continue setting aside land for
woodlots when Forest Departments take the majority of the produce. Thus, the
woodlots model must be managed to be more cost-beneficial which implies
earlier, greater community responsibility.



- 8 -
26.       Yet another related factor concerns difficulties by Forest Depart-
ment staff in formulating agreements with communities for woodlots. Contacts
were made with village leaders, but often without the consensus or even know-
ledge of the community at large. Arrangements as to responsibilities and
turnover of management were often unclear, and details on who were beneficia-
ries and how much they would get were virtually nonexistent. Forest Depart-
ment staff lacked training in this kind of work; experience shows that it
demands skill and perhaps some sociological input.
27.       The lesson in all this for the supervised woodlot scheme is that
such woodlots can only be established under certain conditions, includin-
adequate land availability, attractive cost-benefit incentives, and community
cohesion. The latter, given the prevailing social organization and increased
population pressures on the majority of rural villages in India, makes it an
exceptionally difficult task.
28.       In the supervised scheme, but especially in the self-help scheme, it
was envisioned that the poor could volunteer labor in return for benefits.
The UP report contends (PCR, paras. 4.10-4.11) that the concept was flawed,
because they would not "volunteer" labor (SAR, para. 2.14). Furthermore, it
had been assumed that resources would benefit the poor. But in reality, it
depended mainly on who controls the community land and resources. It may be
that equal distribution to all residents would be the most feasible arrange-
ment, since the village woodlots model seems a less-effective vehicle to help
the poor.
Species Selection and Other Technical Inputs
29.       Supervision missions have noticed that in some nurseries, eucalyptus
seedlings have been taken, but other species remained in surplus. This has
raised the question of whether Forest Departments have adequately attempted to
encourage farmers to try other species, and how extension could help.
30.       The PCR mointains that the research wing of the UP Forest Department
was not particularly responsive to the needs of social forestry (UP PCR, para.
4.32). However, the research being done has been more relevant and certainly
much more professional than research related to social forestry in other IDA-
financed projects in India. It has dealt, inter alia, with trials using euca-
lyptus and other fast-growing species (para. 19 above). Trials have included
degree and timing of root competition, weeding regimes, multistory planting of
various species, etc.
31.       More research needs to be done on management techniques for tree
growing, given different objectives. For example, the research wing in UP
questions whether fodder and fuelwood production can be undertaken efficiently
with the same trees. The need for management research is particularly impor-
tant for farm forestry where growing of crops may be related to trees. Other
issues requiring more research attention include tree improvement, contour
planting, and soil conservation approaches.



- 9 -
D. Production and Distribution of Benefits
32.       Statistics on growth rates and yields have been less than satisfac-
tory. In part, this is because, on Departmental/community plantations, little
felling and distribution of mature trees has taken place to date, and arrange-
ments for distribution of benefits are vague if they exist at all. But this
has also occurred in large part because monitoring and evaluation did not
develop to the desired capacity during the project. The projected yields and
production could have been ascertained from existing stands by measuring
present volume, etc.
33.       For the future, social forestry projects should improve recording of
production. For purposes of the present project, this weakness has led to a
request that FAO/CP provide technical assistance in economic analysis. In
April 1986, an agricultural econcomist visited UP to prepare such an analysis.
On the economist's request, UP then arranged for a technical survey of growth
rates and estimated yields, to be followed by sample tree cutting and measure-
ments from the various kinds of plantations. The results are presented in
Annex 7. Among the interesting results are: (a) highest fuelwood yields on
canalside plantations and lowest on village commor land; (b) survival rates
for farm forestry generally higher than for plantations on public land; (c)
fuelwood production at 105% of that estimated at appraisal, and timber
production at 206% of SAR--not counting farm forestry; and (d) an economic
rate of return estimate at 19%, excluding farm forestry (because of data
inconsistencies for farm forestry); the ERR including farm forestry is
expected to be much higher.
34.       Recent IDA supervision missions have pointed out the lack of
detailed plans about how tree benefits wouid be distributed, when, and to
whom. The lack of local involvement in the plantations, resulting from
unawareness of benefits forthcoming seems to have contributed heavily to the
poor participation. In part, the poor plans for distribution occurred because
project design did not put strong erough emphasis, and in part because Forest
Departments delayed taking up the subject. But IDA has required in its
second-phase National Social Forestry Project that distribution of benefits be
decided clearly from the beginning, ideally at the time before planting when
other plans are still taking shape.
E. Marketing of Project Output
35.       As noted by the Mid-term Review, the marketing projections origi-
nally envisioned at appraisal proved outdated, given the unanticipated over-
whelming response to farm forestry. The Mid-term Review suggested that
studies be done across the board on forest products. The studies which were
done eventually related to another exercise, the "wood balance study.' The UP
Wood Balance Study focused on two basic themes: existing trees on private
holdings and willingness to plant, and energy, timber and bamboo consumption.
Still, this study did not examine in depth the newly emerging commercial side
of social forestry, let alone market prospects for the large volume of wood
being produced by farrmers, and whether do-mand and prices would continue to
support large-scale planting.



- 10 -
36.       Reflective of the lack of market planning for social forestry was
the pilot effort with tassar silk production in UP. Although the Forest
Department felt confident that the demand for silk cocoons would support
tassar production, substantial research was never done on the subject. The
technology for tassar production proved very successful in the first-phase
project but enough questions about marketability still remained during
appraisal of the second phase and consequently the tassar silk component was
vastly reduced from what the preparation report had proposed. There were also
needs to improve profitability; for example, the pilot approach pursued during
the first Project entailed substantial input from the Forest Department, with
production on a widely scattered basis. This meant a large investment from
the Forest Department in terms of training, staff, and deploying staff
throughout the project area to small sites. Furthermore, certain economies of
scale in production, collection and sale of cocoons could have been achieved
by focusing production only in certain areas.
37.       The lessons to be learned for future Bank projects in social fores-
try are: (a) marketability requires attention early in the project, including
projections of future supply and demand, for instance where market gluts might
occur; (b) just because a scheme like the tassar component is directed at the
rural poor does not mean that it cannot be profitable; in such a scheme, eco-
nomic objectives such as cost recovery and economies of scale can be met
simultaneously with poverty objectives; by supervising too closely and invest-
ing more staff time than necessary, the Forest Department is narrowing the
profit margin for the beneficiaries.
F. Organizational Issues
38.       Paragraphs above such as those on extension and woodlots have
already mentioned some organizational aspects; and the Borrower's PCR deals
with a number of other organizational considerations. But there are two more
which deserve further mention here.
39.       First of all, the Government of India encouraged Forest Departments
to create a separate wing for social forestry, which most states including
Uttar Pradesh did. The idea was that such separate wings were necessary in
order to promote consciousness of social forestry, and to focus forestry
staffs' attention on social aspects rather than the traditional "enforcement-
oriented" forestry to which they were accustomed. It was expected that
forestry staff would resist transfers to the social side. Uttar Pradesh
created a completely separate stream for foresters and guard-level staff in
social forestry; these staff would not be interchangeable with staff on the
traditional "territorial" side.
40.       The question has begun to arise of whether this separation between
social and territorial forestry is actually desirable in the long run, and
whether the two sides should now be integrated. Some critics claim that,
because of the attention devoted to social forestry, valuable staff and
resources have been drawn away from other forestry work; social forestry has
career growth, additional responsibilities, benefits and status such as vehi-
cles. Another issue is that there is not such a clear differentiation between
social and territorial forestry conducted on government lands; both should



- 11 -
elicit local cooperation if not participation, and should aim at addressing
local needs. Also there is the idea that the Forest Department should devolve
to the private sector what the latter can do as (or more) efficiently, and
that it should avoid creating a larger bureaucracy when other services (e.g.,
agricultural extension) can take responsibility; as a result, the Forest
Department's own responsibilities might be consolidated.
41.       The second organizational issue worth mentioning in this overview is
the failure to develop a strong monitoring and evaluation capacity. Although
during appraisal stress was put on developing a strong capacity, monitoring
and evaluation was accorded a lower priority than much other project work, and
sometimes staff assigned to it were relatively unqualified. Rather than being
understood as a tool for management, monitoring and evaluation were viewed
more as a report-generating function. A workshop on M&E was held in February
1986, to train staff from all the Indian projects and clarify any remaining
questions on the subject. In collaboration with forestry officials from dif-
ferent states in India, a Guide to Monitoring and Evaluation has been pro-
duced. This, in combination with computerized data processing, will hopefully
improve the situation. This institutionalization of M&E may be expected to
greatly improve the situation in this second phase.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 925-IN)
I . INTRODUCTION
A. Brief Account of Forestry Sector India
1.1       With only 2% of the total forest area of the world, India supports
about 15% of the total human population and about one seventh of the cattle
population of the world. The per capita forest area in India is about one
tenth of the corresponding world average3 The per capita growing stock of
"the forest under working" is only 5.2 m  as against 46.7 m*  for the world.
The existing level of production from India's f rests (0.5 m3/ha/year) is
considerably below the world average (2.1 m3/ha/year) and its total production
is far short of actual requirements. The following table presents the status
in respect of Industrial Wood and Fuetwood:
Table 1: WOOD REQUIREhENTS AND ACTUAL OUTPUT FOR INDIA
Annual
requirement
estimates 1985       Recorded annual
Type of product           Unit           Low       High       production forests
Industrial wood      Million m3(r)        30        35                13
Fuelwood             Miliion mt          133       137                15
1.2      The total gross revenue earned by the Forest Department totaled
Rs 4.7 billion in the 1980/81 financial year (3% of total annual plan budget).
The total Plan and non-Plan expenditure in the forestry sector in the same
year amounted to Rs 3.2 billion (2.4% of the total budget).
1.3      Plan expenditure under the forestry sector as compared to total
public sector investment from the Third through the Fifth Plans (1961-80)
showed no significant change. Since then, there has been a substantial
increase as will be evident from following table. This reflects a shift in
the Government policies towards forestry sector and particularly towards
Social Forestry:



- 14 -
Table 2: PLAN EXPENDITURE ON FORESTRY IN INDIA
3rd, 4th,
5th plans
lst plan   2nd plan       & 1979180      6th plan
(1951-56)  (1956-61)      (1961-80)       (1980-85)
Plan period                    5 years    5 years       20 years         5 years
Percentage of total fores-
try in total public sec-
tor expenditure               0.39       0.46              0.53          0.71
Social forestry as percent-
age of forestry sector        2.15       9.40             21.53         50.81
expenditure                                         (11.84 to 33.20)
Forestry other than social
forestry as X of public
sector expenditure            0.38       0.42             0.41           0.35
1.4       Taking production forestry as the main indicator of "Forestry Sector
other than Social Forestry," the percentages in the above table indicate that
funding for production forestry has remained almost constant from 1961 to
date; the physical achievements under production forestry have also remained
constant (0.6 million ha/year).
Uttar Pradesh
1.5       Uttar Pradesh has 6.8Z of the forest area of India and supports
16.21 of its human population on 91 of the India'c geographical area. The per
capita growing stock is about 4% only. The following table indicates annual
requirements and average annual recorded production from forests:
Table 3: WOOD REQUIREMENTS AND ACTUAL PRODUCTION FOR UTTAR PRADESH STATE
Annual
requirement
estimates 1985        Recorded annual
Type of product           Unit           Low        High      production forests
Industrial wood      Million m3(r)       4.8        5.6               1.0
Fuelwood             Million mt           13         14               1.0
1.6       The total gross revenue earned by the UP Forest Department is about
2.3Z (1982/83) of the UP State revenue.  The plan expenditure during 1982/83
as percentage of total State expenditure was about 1.3%.



- 15 -
1.1       Plan expenditure under the forestry sector remained almost station-
ary (near 1Z) from the First Five-Year Plan to the Fourth Five-Year Plan; how-
ever the Fifth Five-Year Plan accorded loge, priority (0.76%). It was the
Social Forestry Program launched in 1979/80, which restored the forestry sec-
tor share. During the Sixth Plan, the share further increased to 1.31% due to
Social Forestry. Comparing the Sixth and Seventh Plans, while the amount of
expenditure for social forestry is planned to increase, the percentage of bud-
get devoted to social versus total forestry will actually decrease souewhat
(Table 4):
Table 4: PERCENTAGE-WISE OUTLAY FOR SOCIAL FORESTRY, FORESTRY SECTOR,
AND TOTAL PLt' FOR UTTAR PRADESH /a
1st, 2nd,
3rd, and               Annual
4th plans  5th plan      plan     6th plan   7th plan
Plan period              (1951-74)  (1974-79)  (1979/80)  (1980-85)  (1985-90)
Forestry sector as X of
total plan                1.00        0.76       0.91        1.31       1.70
Social forestry as X of
forestry sector expen-
diture                   11.17       18.40      49.74       65.30      47.04
/a   Includes both State Plan schemes as well as centrally sponsored schemes.
B. Sector Issues
Solving Household Energy Problems
1.8       Of the UP population (1981 Census), 81.99% is rural (90.9 million)
and 84X of the total labor force of the State is employed in rural areas and
is expected to reach 129 million by the year 2000. To maintain the consump-
tion level of 0.21 m3 (197i), the annual prodyltion of fuelwood should
increase by 9.24 million m  by the year 2000d    Given an average production
of 8 m /ha/year, this would mean additional fuelwood plantations over the
1.2 million ha over next 15 years or about 80,000 ha annually. The per capita
consumption (1978) of cattle dung is about 173.8 kg (52 kg coal replacement
value) which is equivalent to 0.13 m3 of fuelwood. To replace the future use
of cow dung as fuel by fuelwood would require an additional annual production
1/  This was calculated by multiplying the expected population growth from
1978 t  the year 2000, by the conswn1ption level (1978) per capita
0.21 la.



- 16 -
of 11.1 million m3.21 In order to provide fuelwood to replace the cow dung
for an increased population by the 3year 2,000 would require an dditional
annual production of 5.7 million m . The annual 16.8 million m additional
production required for fuelwood replacement of cow dung would imply a total
of 2.1 mil'lion ha fuelwood plantations by the year 2000, or 140,000 ha annu-
ally for next 15 years. Thus the grand total requirement for fuelwood planta-
tion (including basic fuelwood needs, plus replacement by fuelwood of cow
dung) would be 220,000 ha annually, totaling to 3.3 million ha during the next
15 years.
1.9       However, government and community wastelands or other land available
for fuelwood planting is estimated at about 0.53 million ha within the forest
areas and 1.55 million ha outside forest areas, totaling about 2.1 million
ha.  Thus the idea of planting of 3.3 million ha on government and c.mmunity
land alone at the present consumption level would be unrealistic. Further,
the required financial, technical and other resources needed to take up this
gigantic job could not be provided solely through government. Given the fact
that plantation by individuals coste significantly less than government plan-
tation (mainly due to labor costs to government), individual participation in
planting on public as well as private own land is necessary to reduce the
financial, technical and land resource burdens on the State and to minimize
implementation time.
Solving Small Timber and Fodder Needs
1.10      Apart from fuelwood requirements, plantations are needed to provide
small timber and fodder. Figures in Table 3 include the availability and
demand for industrial wood. As regards fodder, the figures for UP have been
computed on the basis of figures of fodder availability in NCA (National
Commission on Agriculture) Report (1976) for India (Table 5).
Table 5: FODDER SUPPLY AND DEMAND IN UP FOR YEARS 1985 AND 2000
(Million metric tons)
Green fodder                          Dry fodder
1985              2000              1985                2000
Demand            73.843             96.186             57.063             58.419
Supply            33.666             52.000             29.777             32.000
2/   This was calculated by multiplying the 1978 population (83 million
persons) by the 1978 consumption per capita level (0.13 m ).



- 17 -
Providing Cash Income to the Farmers
1.11      In UP, the percentages of landless, marginal and small farmers are
higher than for India (Table 6); the percentages are still higher in the
densely populated eastern region of the State. The financial stability of
these groups has been increasingly eroded by successive drought and floods.
Tree crops provide the poor population of this state with a regular income
flow, as well as cash income in times of distress.
Table 6: PERCENTAGE POPULATION DISTRIBUTION BY LANDHOLDING
IN UP AND IN INDIA /a
(X)
Total       Up to 1 ha       1-2 ha          2 ha and above
farmers      (Marginal)       (Small)       (Medium and large)
UP                  100             71             16                  13
Eastern UP          100             76             12                  12
India               *00             67             18                  15
/a  UP statistics from "UP Statistical Diary, 1984," and India figures from
"Indian Agriculture in Brief," 1985.
Providing EMptoyment
1.12      There is a need to provide employment in the rural areas to unem-
ployed, partially unemployed or seasonally unemployed people. For those
employed on government plantations as well as those planting on their own
land, tree planting helps to increase per capita incomes and standards of
living.
C. Sector Problems
Financial Resource Constraints
1.13     UP State is one of the poorest in states of India, with an average
per capita income of Rs 553 against Rs 758 for India as a whole. The percent-
age of population below the poverty line (below 2,400 calories/capita) was
50.1% in 1978. The PQLI (physical quality of life) composite index calculated
on the basis of three variables [(i) literacy, (ii) infant mortality, (iii)
life expectancy] for UP is 25, which is the lowest in the country, PQLI for
India being 40. This corroborates the need for massive development inputs.
But internal resource conditions being poor, sufficient financial resources
are not available to the State for its development. These resource con-
straints also explain why the forestry sector share in the State plan has
remained almost constant till the Fourth Five-Year Plan, and why it declined
during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period. It was due largely to an externally
aided (World Bank) social forestry project, that the forestry sector share
increased.



- 18 -
Technical Resource Constraints
1.14      This low financial commitment by the State for the forestry sector
has also resulted in an undeveloped training infrastructure. Due to this, new
programs now have to: (1) strengthen the training of forestry personnel, (2)
provide sufficient staff to implement the required afforestation program, and
(3) develop additional technical information for staff, given the new emphasis
on social forestry.
Extension and Communication
1.15      Prior to organized, large-scale social forestry programs, there was
practically no extension and communication for rural areas, particularly for
the Indo-Gangetic plains area of Uttar Pradesh, where over 80Z of the popula-
tion resides. These plains have been almost devoid of tree vegetation (less
than 7S of forest area) for the last several decades. Due to this, there is
unfamiliarity with tree culture, for example recent advances such as fast-
growing fuelwood and timber species. Thus this area requires an especially
intensive extension program.
Role of the Bank-Assisted Project in Resolving Forestry Sector Issues and
Problems
1.16     The project role over a five-year period was to set the stage for a
much larger planting program with local participation, by developing community
awareness with the help of demonstration plantations on 48,680 ha, and by
building up required institutional support. Ninety new nurseries were to be
established, and 50 existing ones rehabilitated. Technical staff was to be
recruited and trained, and was to acquire experience in dealing with the rural
society; training schools were to be set up. Participating villagers were
supposed to be involved progressively in tree planting activities: first in
planning, then in plantation and protection, and finally in management and
harvesting.
1.17     Apart from a demonstration role, the plantations (over 48,680 ha)
were supposed to provide three kinds of benefits:
(a) fuel, fodder and other products;
(b) employment and an additional source of income; and
(c) environmental stability needed for quality of life and agricultural
productivity.
RelatinshiP of the Project to National Priorities
1.18     The project was prepared in 1978 to meet nationally recognized fuel-
wood shortages, in the context of the National Commission of Agriculture
Report (1976). The Annual Plan (1979/80) and the Sixth Five-Year Plan of
Govern nt of India attached special priority to this sector. The draft
Seventh Five-Year Plan also gives high priority to this sector. Hence the
project has supported national priorities.



_ 19 -
Institutional ChanRes
1.19      Social forestry has been one of the points of the 20-Point Programs
of the Prime Minister of India. The World Bank-assisted projects of UP and
Gujarat supported the growth of this program.  Many nongovernmental organiza-
tions, voluntary agencies, development banks (viz. NABARD) and commercial
banks have also contributed to this program. As a result of the projects.
almost all the rural development programs now have social forestry as one of
their components. The Bank-assisted project has helped to create a sound base
for launching a larger social forestry program bv establishing a Social Fores-
try Wing within the Forest Department.
Executins Agency, Location, Area of Operation
1.20      The project has been successfully implemented by the Social Forestry
Wing of the UP Forest Department, headquartered in Lucknow (capital of UP
State). It operated over a project area of 42 plains districts, with the help
of five Regional Directors and 29 Divisional Directors, and was supported by
the functional units of Planning, Information and Reporting, Training, Exten-
sion and Communication, and Monitoring and Evaluation stationed at headquar-
ters.
Sources of Finance
1.21      The project cost has been borne initially by UP State Government.
Government of India has provided Plan additionality to State Government to the
extent of 702 of the amount reimbursed by IDA to Government of India. Thus
finally, 652 of incremental costs have been borne by State Government and 352
by the Government of India from the Plan budget.
Unanticipated Farm Forestry Response
1.22      Whereas the appraisal mission projected that 8 million seedlings
could be distributed to farms for plaatation on their own land, farmers
responded for more enthusiastically than anyone had anticipated. By the end
of the project, the Social Forestry Wing had distributed 101 million seedlings
financed by the project (farm forestry costs were significantly lower than
projected, which permitted an expanded program), and an additional 220 million
seedlings financed by centrally sponsored schemes (para. 2.15)--i.e., 354 mil-
lion seedling were distributed overall.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Origin
2.1       Since 1920, it has been known that rural households meet 952 of
their energy requirements from noncommercial fuel sources, particularly in the
Indo-Gangetic plain (the project area), and further that cattle dung was being
burned for fuel. With this in view, the Royal Commission on Agriculture for
India made a very strong recommendation in 1928 that all wastelands be handed



- 20 -
over to the Forest Department of the states and managed as fuel and fodder
reserves. A forest development division was formed in UP State in 1938 and it
established about 2,300 ha before it was disbanded as a war-time economy mea-
sure. In 1949 a Land Management Circle was established in the State to revive
tree planting and to manage plantation activity along roads and canals. But
due to economic constraints, it could not develop to the desired level.
2.2       Problems of fuelwood shortages were becoming more acute.  The NCA
Report (para. 1.10) restated the need to expand Social Forestry. Therefore,
Government of India developed a centrally sponsored scheme for social fores-
try, although in context of the magnitude of the national fuelwood problem, it
was only a modest beginning. State Governments, though realizing the need,
were finding it difficult to allocate the necessary financial resources in
view of competing requirements from other important sectors.
2.3       In the meantime, the World Bank issued a revised Sector Policy Paper
on Forestry (1978). Under this for the first time, IDA funds were recommended
for economically sound and socially oriented forestry projects.
2.4       In recognition of the pressing need to expand social forestry activ-
ities, the Government of India and the Bank agreed to examine the possibili-
ties for the developing a project in UP, and the project was identified and a
project proposal summary was sent to the Government of India for clearance.
After the Government of India's clearance, a detailed project was prepared in
March 1978, costing Rs 598 million. A combined Government of India and Bank
(IDA) mission visited UP, and an FAO/CP team visited twice to help finalize
the project document.
2.5       The original project proposal was modified by the time of project
preparation, to provide a longer-term phasing for some components, for
eyample, a more gradual buildup ot the number of divisions participating in
the project. Also, some cost reductions were proposed, e.g., the money to be
spent on barbed wire fencing.
2.6       No separate feasibility studies were carried out.  The NCA (1976)
and NCAER (1978) reports provided the main basis for quantification of the
need for fuelwood.
B. Preparation and Appraisal
2.7       The project was prepared by K.C. Govil, IFS, Forest Economist under
the direction of K.M. Tewari, IFS, the then Director and Coordinator Extensive
Tree Planting 2 ogram, for UP Forest Department, the executing agency. After
submission of the preparation report to Government of India and IDA, an FAO/CP
team visited the State to further evaluate project preparation. The FAO/CP
team visited all typical areas in the field and made a detailed examination of
forest department records and accounts. The team discussed the project with
villagers and officials from other agencies. Thereafter, certain revisions
were agreed:
(a) format of the project report;



- 21 -
(b) phasing of project targets;
(c) scope of various components of the project; and
(d) expected benefits from the project.
These revisions did not change the overall scope of the project, and the
original preparation report was considered generally sound.
2.8       In November 1978, an IDA appraisal mission composed of three Bank
staff and two consultants visited Uttar Pradesh. Essentially, the appraisal
team adhered to the project design presented in the preparation report. Then
in March 1979, a follow-up appraisal team of two IDA staff came to propose the
introduction of two additional components, a self-help village woodlots scheme
and a component for promotion of fuel-efficient stoves, and to finalize the
disbursement schedule.
2.9       One of the conditions for credit effectiveness was the formulation
of a proforma agreement between social forestry and villages for village wood-
lots. The Social Forestry Wing later prepared model agreements for village
woodlots, indicating the sharing of produce between the village and the Social
Forestry Wing, and cost recovery arrangements; this was done pursuant to an
agreement at negotiations. No special studies were required by the lenders.
2.10      Project identification, preparation, appraisal and final sanction
took only 16 months (January 1978 to May 1979), and no serious delays were
encountered.
C. Project Objectives and Description
2.11      According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the proposed social
forestry project would initially provide paid employment to the poorest sec-
tion of the population (Antyodayas) by planting trees under the guidance and
control of the Social Forestry Directorate (SFD) primarily for use by the vil-
lagers and for the development of cottage industries.  The immediate objec-
tives of the project would be to:
(a)  plant 48,600 ha in public and village lands, including a minimum of
3,000 ha pilot community self-help plantings in village common
lands; to demonstrate to the rural population at large the benefits
of afforestation; and to distribute 8 million seedlings for planting
on private lands equivalent to 4,000 ha;
(b)  secure the cooperation of the local population for Social Forestry
plantings by involving villages in planning and execution; And
(c)  build an organization required to support a long-term social fores-
try program through on-the-job training of foresters in community
development.
Further objectives of the Social Forestry Program would be for the UP villages
to provide labor for establishing as soon as possible their own village



- 22 -
forests with unpaid labor in exchange for ultimate distribution of fuelvood to
village members, with the assistance of statewide forest extension service.
2.12      During the five-year project period, based on availability of land
and status of trained staff, plantings would be done -y farmers in and around
their fields and homesteads (8Z of the area), by villagers under a self-help
scheme (62), and by SFD, in cooperation with the local panchayats, along road-
sides (13Z), canal sides (30Z) and rail sides (82), and in village common
lands (92) and degraded reserve forests (26X).
2.13      To support the proposed planting program funds would be provided
for:
(a) establishment of new Social Forestry Divisions, in charge of estab-
lishing a network of nurseries and of implementing the project with
rural community participation; to this end the project would create
special support units essential to induce, foster, and monitor
community awareness and participation;
(b) construction of 90 new nurseries and rehabilitation of 50 existing
ones, to provide one nursery for each of the proposed Forest Ranges;
(c) plantation protection, including digging of trenches, employment of
watchmen and fencing in areas of high cattle pressure;
(d) strengthening of research activities, and construction of seed test-
ing and stnrage facilities at the research centers; and
(e) training of project staff, including standard forestry courses and
special training in community development skills.
2.14      When the project was designed and launched (1979180), it encompassed
the entire social forestry program for the state. During the project, other
social forestry schemes were introduced by the State and GOI. The State
scheme consisted of management of roadside avenues and social forestry in
urban areas. Centrally sponsored schemes with afforestation components
included the Rural Fuelwood Program, Drought-Prone Areas Program, Small and
Marginal Farmers Program, the National Rural Employment Program and the Rural
Landless Employment Guarantee Program.
2.15      As noted in para. 1.22, the unanticipated enthusiasm for farm fores-
try meant that this component, which comprised 82 of hectares to be planted at
appraisal, eventually accounted for 19? of hectares planted by project comple-
tion.3/ Neither officials in India nor IDA staff realized in the late 1970s
that this could occur. On the other hand, two components fared less well than
3/ Alternatively, considering that 170,750 ha were planted in total
(accounting for additional seedlings produced with other funds) using
project staff and resources, farm forestry appears as 692 of total
hectares planted under the project.



- 23 -
expected at appraisal. The self-help village woodlots component encountered
difficulties in organization and motivation (para. 4.10), reflective of prob-
lems occurring in subsequent social forestry projects elsewhere. The lesson
learned from this experience is the importance of sociological expertise in
helping establish organizationally and sociologically viable components
entailing participation. Similarly, the component for introduction of fuel-
efficient stoves required, in retrospect, a closer feasibility study on
organization and motivation.
2.16      In terms of calculating produ-tion to be achieved under social
forestry, a degree of uncertainty existed at the time of appraisal because
this was the first time plantations 4ere being taken up on a large scale
outside traditional forestry lands.4 The FAO/CP team revised downward the
production estimates projected by Forest Department, but it now appears that
production figures per hectare will be higher. Research will confirm produc-
tion figures in the coming year as the first harvesting of trees and collec-
tion of produce takes place.
2.17      Project inputs and outputs are directly related.  Based on the tech-
nical support staff and financial resources available, targets were phased and
have been achieved. Educative and demonstrative plantations have been raised
over 77,661 ha against the 48,600 targeted in the project. The additional
targets were achieved through savings in civil works, training, staff sala-
ries, and finally due to increased value of the dollar in terms of rupees.
The age of plantations varies from 0 tc 5 years and it is still early to
predict growth. Research carried out during the perioL is not in a position
to update the growth estimates made at the time of preparation of the project.
2.18      Plantations have been raised over 60Z more area than proposed.
Assuming groth rates stayed at the level projected in the SAR, then estimated
production would still be 60% higher than originally projected. But given the
probable higher growth rates than envisioned in the SAR (para. 2.17), produc-
tion should be much higher.
2.19      Project targets were distributed almost equally in all the districts
of the project. Thus the project provided equal opportunities for labor
employment, improved environment and a renewable source of energy to the
regions within the project area.
2.20      This has had a very beneficial effect on the program, as far as
extension and education are concerned. Now there is better appreciation of
the program throughout the State.
4/   Social forestry plantations were established as early as 1938 in UP, but
on a very small scale.



- 24 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Start-up
3.1       Because the project had full support from the Forest Department, it
got off to a good start. The main problem was to train and place personnel.
For instance, a three-year delay in establishment of the Monitoring and Evalu-
ation Unit has adversely affected the quality of the program.
B. Revisions
3.2       No formal reallocation of targets occurred with regard to the
Project, except for the fuel-efficient stoves component. The mid-term review
mission noted, "It was evident from discussions with SFD staff that the stove
component should be canceled and funds transferred to the planting program."
Similar experience had occurred elsewhere in India by that time, with stove
promotion problems mainly related to the Forest Department being a compara-
tively less well-equipped agency to do promotion, and stove design being
inappropriate.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.3       Plantation targets were achieved faster than originally anticipated.
However, civil works lagged considerably behind schedule because of staff con-
straints, and delays in land acquisition. Staffing took longer than envi-
sicned by the SAR, and procurement of vehicles (particularly jeeps) never did
achieve SAR targets for budgetary reasons.
D. Reporting
3.4       The project provided for creation of a "Planning Information and
Reporting" Cell. This cell/division was created by the Government of UP from
the very start of the project. Annex 3 lists the publications produced by
this division, including bulletin and reports covering from various projects,
annual plans, five-year plans and prospective plans.
E. Procurement
3.5       Procurement problems were mainly encountered with respect to the
following: (a) polyethylene bags, (b) diesel pumps, (c) quality seeds, and
(d) farmyard manure. Problems in procurement of polyethylene bags and diesel
pumps have arisen due to procurement procedures laid down by the State Govern-
ment. Due to acceptance of least-price quotation system, supplies of these
items have been untimely, poor and erratic. Polyethylene bags have been pur-
chased in advance at many places compensating for delayed and erratic sup-
plies. The work of supplying quality seed was given to the Research and
Development Wing of the traditional Forestry Department, but this Wing could
not meet this obligation due to shortage of staff and its earlier obligations.
It is proposed to establish a new "Seed Cell" unit during the second phase to
supply quality seed in time and in desired quantity. General difficulty has
been faced in procuring the desired quantity of farm yard manure because in



- 25 -
rural areas, it is not available in large quantities for sale. It is proposed
to purchase organic manure prepared from night soil in urban areas. In view
of problems in procurement of polyethylene bags, diesel pumps, quality seeds
and farmyard manure, as stated in earlier paragraphs, the procurement system
needs change, especially for diesel pumps required to irrigate nursery and
plantations.
F. Costs and Financial Resources
3.6       The following table gives the breakdown of Actual and Estimated
Project Costs by major headings:
Table 7: ACTUAL VERSUS ESTIMATED COSTS FOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
(Rs million)
Major head                                   Actual                  Estimated /a
Plantation establishment                    336.097                     217.64
Seed testing and research                     4.753                       3.31
Building and housing                         15.407                      33.62
Equipment                                     2.202                       3.06
Vehicles                                     12.766                      19.74
Training                                      1.703                      11.36
Staff salaries                               81.229                     100.26
Other operating expenses                     25.564                      11.02
Total                                 479.721                      400.00
/a   Including contingencies.
Significantly reduced expenditure under "Salaries" is due to the fact that
staff positions were sanctioned late. These delayed sanctions could have been
avoided.
3.7       The following table indicates the direct planting costs of
plantation:



- 26 -
Table 8: TOTAL PLANTATION COSTS BY YEAR
Plantation               Total direct cost
Year                                   (hectares)                 (Rs million)
1979/80                                 8,067.7                       23.896
1980/81                                 8,721.8                       44.301
1981/82                                 11,960.5                      67.656
1982/83                                 14,761.7                      71.817
1983/84                                 16,146.4                      81.931
1984/85 (up to Dec 1984)               18,003.1                       46.496
Total                             772661.2                      336.097
Taking the total number hectares planted into the total direct costs, the
actual cost per hectare comes to Rs 4,328, compared with the SAR estimate of
Rs 4,471 per hectare.
3.8       As would be apparent, there has not been much change in plantation
unit costs; hence there was no need to make addition to project budget provi-
sions. Differences in actual expenditure from the estimated expenditure have
of course been due to over or under achievement under a particular component.
When figuring in price contingencies in both estimated and actual costs,
actual expenditure compares favorably with the estimated expenditure.
3.9       The revised total project costs have come to about Rs 479.721 mil-
lion as against the estimated Rs 395.18 million. The reason for this is that
when the project utilized Rs 406.104 million by March 31, 1984, there was
still about US$2.4 million credit to be utilized. Hence the project was
extended to one more planting season of 1984 rains, and all expenditure until
December 12, 1984 on these additional plantings (including farm forestry) was
claimed. This has been justified since it improved the project economic sta-
tus. Further, it has helped bridge between Phase I and Phase II of the proj-
ect, taking into account the advance soil works for the first year of Phase II
(1985) work costs. Physical and price contingencies provided in Phase I ade-
quately covered the additional year's costs, and in addition, the strengthened
dollar meant that more rupees than anticipated were available under the US
dollar credit (para 5.4).
3.10     Year-wise total expenditure provided and actually incurred is shown
in Table 9:



- 27 -
Table 9: SAR ESTIMATES VERSUS ACTUAL COSTS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(Rs million)
Total costs including contingenc,;s
SAR                       Actual
1979/80                                       53.28/a                    34.050
1980/81                                       65.15                      57.142
1981/82                                       90.15                      91.979
1982/83                                       89.07                     101.226
1983/84                                      102.35                     121.707
1984/85 (up to 12/31/84)                        -                        73.617
Total                                   400.00                     479.721/b
Reimbursable amount (in US$ million)           23                         23 /b
/a   Including retroactive financing.
Th   Stronger dollar versus rupee meant more rupees available for the same
number of dollars.
C. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.11      The services of an FAO/CP team, particularly of Mr. Michael Grut,
Forest Economist, in finalizing the draft of the project document for
appraisal team proved very useful, and facilitated appraisal work to a great
extent. More could have been done to utilize consultant services in develop-
ing extension package and research information, particularly with regard to
technical approaches, plant protection, farm management plans, marketing, and
relative economics of various agroforestry practices.
IV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
4.1       Annex 1 indicates achievement against targets.  Although the overall
"Plantation" targets have been exceeded, the targets fixed by canalside plan-
tations could not be achieved, the "Efficient Wood-Burning Stoves" component
was dropped, and progress was slow under "Self-Help Village Woodlots."
A. Farm Forestry
4.2       Actual performance of the project has been excellent, particularly
in view of the constraint of overburdened staff. The unprecedented success of
the farm forestry component (para. 1.22; except in the Eastern Region) is a
noteworthy achievement, although in the future quality could be improved by
better transfer of knowledge and skills to the farmers. First of all, there
has not been an even distribution between various landholding sizes of



- 28 -
farmers. According to monitoring and evaluation studies, as well as a study
by the Agroeconomic Research Center at the University of Allahabad, it has
been observed that the number of plants lifted by individua" farmers increased
with the size of holding: about 70X plants were purchased by medium and large
farmers (representing 30Z of the participants but only 13% of UP's total popu-
lation), and the remaining 30% plants were purchased by smaller farmers (rep-
resenting 701 of the participants but 87% of the total population). However,
the centrally sponsored Small and Marginal Farmers Scheme (nonproject) is
helping restore equity in distribution. The second-phase project does incor-
porate special provisions for plantation by marginal farmers and even landless
persons. Second, survival rates in farm forestry have been below par. While
survival rates under irrigated conditions (which tend to be with larger farm-
ers) have ranged from 64-73%, survival rates under unirrigated conditions
(which tend to be with smaller farmers) have ranged from 31-62% (see Annex 2).
Third, not only have small farmers received less attention from extension, but
they require different sorts of recommendations since their planting patterns
(more along field boundaries and in compounds) tend to differ from those of
large farmers (who can afford to plant in blocks). Such agrnforestry recom-
mendations need to be improved by research for small farmers (para. 4.31).
Fourth, extension is not transferring the information it does have as effec-
tively as it could for solving problems such as insect attacks, waterlogging,
too dense enspacement, interrelationship with crops, etc. Information on pro-
jected demand for wood, and on markets, needs to be improved generally, in
order to better guide species selection and tree management methods by
farmers.
4.3       Some of the problems of lack of access to seedlings and information
have been due to the relatively small number of nurseries, since most farm
forestry occurs within a two kilometer radius from the nursery. Substandard
seedling quality in some cases and poor extension have also been a function of
the small number of staff trying to cope with an unprecedentedly large pro-
gram, including many duties besides farm forestry.
4.4       Seedling distribution has been much lower in the Eastern Region of
ehe state.  The mid-term review mission recorded several probable reasons for
this: "... small f2rm size (see Table 10) and higher population density (about
500 persons per km ) ... the highly fragmented pattern of landholdership ...
the consolidation of landholdings has not yet been completed ... and the low
per capita income of the farmers." Tables 10, 11 and 12 demonstrate the
patterns of landholding. Rural indebtedness and poverty have combined to
decrease farmer incentives for investing in trees. Not only tree planting but
other development programs generally have suffered in the Eastern Region for
these reasons. Low literacy has contributed to weak extension, since written
materials cannot be used so effectively. Finally, no appropriate agroforestry
packages have been developed for the region. A study has been commissioned
which further analyzes the problems of the Eastern Region.



- 29 -
Table 10: DISTRIBUTION OF HOLDINGS IN DIFFERENT ECONOMIC
REGIONS OF UTTAR PRADESH
(X)
Size class
Up to                                     10 ha &
Region                 1 ha      1-2 ha    2-4 ha    4-10 ha    above        Total
Western                61.2       19.6      13.0        5.7        0.5        100
Central                68.7       18.4       9.4        3.2        0.3        100
Eastern                78.3       12.7       6.3        2.4        0.3        100
Bundelkhand            41.3       23.1      19.0       13.6        3.0        100
Hill                   71.5       15.6       9.0        3.5        0.4        100
Total (UP)        69.4      16.4        9.6       4.1         0.5        100
Source:   Agriculture Census in UP 1976/77, Board of Revenue, 1980, p. 45.
Table 11:  POPULATION DISTRIBUTION AND DENSITY, AND
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOLDING IN DIFFERENT REGIONS
I Population         Density         Average holding (ha)
Western                     35.5               479                    1.27
Central                     17.7               428                    1.00
Eastern                     37.6               485                    0.79
Bundelkhand                  4.9               185                    2.33
Hill                         4.3                95                    0.96
State                 100.0               377                   1.04
Source:   Agriculture Census in UP 1976/77, Board of Revenue, 1980,  -. 45.



- 30 -
Table 12: PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION OF NUMBER OF HOLDINGS
AND AREA OF HOLDINGS
Size class                   Eastern Region                          UP
(ha)                    No.            Area              No.             Area
Below 0.25                39.82             6.51             3.78           30.65
0.25-  0.5               20.42             9.61             6.65           19.09
0.5 -  1.0               18.05            16.56            13.44           19.63
1.0 -  2.0               12.67            22.05           21.74            16.39
2.0 -  3.0                4.37            13.26            14.74            6.46
3.0 -  4.0                1.96             8.41            10.12            3.12
4.0 -  5.0                1.07             6.04             7.45            1.78
5.0 -  7.5                0.98             7.46             9.96            1.76
7.5 - 10.0                0.35             3.72             4.86            0.61
10.0 - 20.0                0.26             4.31             5.34            0.44
20.0 - 30.0                0.03             1.00             1.01            0.05
30.0 - 40.0                0.01             0.41             0.37            0.01
40.0 - 50.0                0.00             0.19             0.01            0.00
50.0 and above             0.01             0.57             0.52            0.01
Total               100.00          100.00           100.00           100.00
B. Nurseries
4.5       About ten times the number of nurseries were eventually created
under the project as were envisaged at appraisal. The main reason for this
was a decision by GOUP to allot 2 ha of land per development block for estab-
lishing nurseries. In addition to project support, funds from other rural
development schemes were utilized for enlarging the nursery base. Against
project target of 140 nurseries, the project established 1,166 nurseries o0:r
an area of 1,641.57 ha comprising 700 development blocks. The increased
number of nurseries is primarily responsible for the achievement of the farm
forestry component. However, even with nurseries in each block, farmers face
transportation difficulties which affect cost, plant mortality and time spent
traveling to and from nurseries. The second-phase project has alreacy recog-
nized the need for a larger nursery network, with one nursery for each naya
panchayat (one per ten villages); the feasibility of nursery privatization is
also being explored in the second phase.
4.6       Seedling quality was weak in some cases during the first-phase
project. First of all, low seed quality cases resulted in higher mortality,
and substandard growth and form. Sometimes germination rates were poor. A
second factor in seedling quality was nursery techniques, and improvements
could have been made in preparation of seedling beds, watering regimes, appli-
cation of fertilizer/manure, tending operations, culling, etc.



- 31 -
4.7       It become apparent during the first phase that nurseries could serve
as a key focal point for extension and demonstration.
C. Extension
4.8       Because "project success would depend mainly upon the understanding
and participation of the rural population at large" (SAR para. 2.21), the
project provided for creation of five Communications Units at the regional
level. These units would be responsible for publicity and extension work,
villager training, and introduction of improved stoves, and would be equipped
with staff, vehicles, audiovibual equipment, and other resources. Only three
communication unitE were actually created; the functions of newsletters,
extension, and publicity have been handled by the Divisional Director (Train-
ing, Extension and Research Division) in headquarters. This Division pub-
lished a variety of promotion materials (Annex 2). In retrospect, it was
correct to undertake development and publication of materials in headquarters,
although establishment of the proposed Regional Communication Units would have
strengthened extension.
4.9       Despite the quantitative achievements in seedling distribution,
advice on tree planting and care for farmers was weak because:
(a) staff lacked the requisite know-how, especially in agroforestry
(irrigation regimes, crop combinations, marketing potential, pest
and disease control under intercropping, etc.);
(b) appropriate information was not available, given the traditional
orientat in of research;
(c) the project staff had no time for extension work, particularly in
divisions where the operational area spread over more than one
district; and
(d) there were no organized, reliable and known nongovernmental agencies
to help the project staff in this field.
4.10      In retrospect, the extension organization envisioned at appraisal
was inadequate to handle the volume of seedling distribution which actually
took place during the project, and to reach small and marginal farmers. In
terms of reaching farmers, published literature has tended to focus more on
larger, literate farmers. Also, because larger farmers are easier to reach
and more likely to have sizable tracts of extra land, there was a natural ten-
dency for already busy field staff to focus on them. However, the farmer
training camps were successful in reaching a variety of farmers, especially
small and marginal ones; 160,000 were trained in farmers camps.
D.  Self-Help Village Woodlo s
4.11      Annex 1 indicates the achievement against various targets.  Self-
help village woodlots comprised one of the components thst failed to take off
well. There are several reasons for this. Under this scheme, the villagers
were supposed to provide free labor for land preparation and planting under



- 32 -
the technical supervision of Forest Department staff. One of the reasons why
the scheme failed is that it is mostly the rural poor who perform physical
labor and since this is their only source of livelihood, they cannot afford to
volunteer their time for social labor. Another probable reason is that since
the poor oftentimes have been excluded from community benefits, they do not
have faith in the assertions that benefits from the self-help woodlot would
flow to them. A third reason could be that many community lands are
encroached upon and therefore are not actually available for plantation. This
would again deter marginal farmers and landless persons from volunteering
their labor.
4.12      World Bank supervision missions noted that this project component
was not well-conceived and would not succeed in a stratified society where the
poorest have labor as their only asset and cannot afford to "volunteer" it.
By the Mid-term Review, the target under this component was reallocated to the
supervised village woodlots scheme.
E. Supervised Community Woodlots
4.13      Under this scheme (Supervised Woodlot Scheme) the SFD was to carry
out the planting on behalf of the village panchayat and arrange for cost
recovery when the plantation began to produce fuelwood, fodder and other prod-
ucts. Also, SFD was expected to turn over 10% of woodlot acreage per year to
the panchayat for whole or partial management and protection, beginning in
yeat 3 (SAR, para. 4.5).
4.14      However, progress under this component has been less than satisfac-
tory even though targets have been achieved. One reason is that the areas
available for plantation in village commons are mild to extreme usar (alka-
line/saline) lands, which require heavier inputs than the project provided.
4.15      Another major problem, however, has been the acquisition of commu-
nity land. In many places, these have been encroached upon, and in others
they are being used by the village Pradhan for generating income for the
village (by being leased out for cultivation). The common apprehension is
that if the Forest Department plants trees on such land, sooner or later it
will pass into the Department's possession. Thus there has been resistance to
handing over the lands. However, this resistance is breaking down as the
benefits of firewood, fodder and fruit start flowing into the community. This
will become even clearer as Forest Department hands management of the planta-
tion back to the village after a certain time period.
4.16      Survival rates have not been within the acceptable range for village
woodlots, i.e., 39%. Survival rates are less than on classified forest lands,
because penalties are more likely to be imposed for transgressions on
government-owned forest lands.
4.17      At present, many woodlots are ready for the first round of distribu-
tion; if this is properly effected the popularity of the component should
increase. It would also have a demonstration effect on other villages.



- 33 -
/- 18     Also, the Forest Department needs to begin handing over plantation
management to the village forest committee after a period of three years; this
has not happened so far. There is a twofold objective in transferring respon-
sibility--it will increase the social involvement of the community and demon-
strate to them that the forest is actively theirs, and it will decrease
management costs for the FD. But (understandably) communities have preferred
that Forest Department stay on and manage the land, since voluntary labor is
difficult to elicit from villagers. Unfortunately, the training of villagers
to promote their participation (SAR, para. 2.22) could not be provided as
envisioned, due to staff shortages.
F. Rehabilitated Degraded Forest (Wastelands)
4.19      "Degraded Forest" term is being used to indicate those areas, which
have been declared as "Forests" under Indian Forest Act, and at present have a
very inferior type of vegetation or very low density. The degradation of many
of these areas have taken place when:
(a)  these tracts were not with Forest Department (for example, village
areas handed over after Zamindari (landlord) abolition operations);
(b) these tracts (though under forest department management) were lying
very near to habitation and the villages did not have any other
source of meeting their fuelwood requirements.
Apart from the above, many forest areas have become degraded due to other
reasons, like seepage from canals, soil and water erosion and natural calami-
ties, etco
4.20      Survival rates on rehabilitated lands have been good under this
component, because of comparatively good soil, distance from villages, and
community fear of harming trees on declared forest lands.   yt when degraded
usar lands, transferred from communities to the Department,-  were taken up
under this component, survival rates have been less because of the poor soil,
proximity to villages, and traditional use as grazing ground. The overall
survival rates under this component were 50%.
4.21      It was proposed to utilize degraded forests for meeting mainly fuel-
wood and fodder requirements of the rural poor, apart from providing employ-
ment to rural unskilled labor and an additional source of income to intended
beneficiaries. The areas mentioned in para. 2 were considered better suited
for this activity, because they are nearer to the village and within the
socioeconomic limits cf villagers.
4.22      As yet, plans have not been consolidated for distribution of produce
from degraded forests, although many are already approaching the time for
harvest.
5/   Lands were transferred starting in 1952 under Zamindari (landlord system)
abolition.



- 34 -
G. Strip Plantations
4.23      Strip plantations during phase one were carried out along the main
national, state and district highways, railway lines, and main and branch
canals. Achievements against the targets were very encouraging for railway
and roadsides (140 and 252%). Along canals only 50% of target was achieved,
because Irrigation Department developed other plans for canal land which was
targeted for this purpose. The strip plantations were carried out wholly
departmentally and now they are ready to be distributed to beneficiaries in a
phased manner. In roadside plantations, the first row of plants has been
retained for shade and ornamental purposes; for rail track trees of short
height were planted for safety reasons. Along the canals most of the land was
more or less wasteland. During phase one the poor soils were supposed to be
restored through special forestry plar.tation. These plantations, besides
being employment oriented for rural poor, have also provided a demonstration
area for beneficiaries. Moreover standing trees have also provided social
services in form of shade, soil and water conservation and other social
benefits.
4.24      Especially on roadside areas where livestock pressure has been high
and protection more difficult, survival rates on strip plantations have been
below par at 39% for roadside, 33% for railside and 50% for canalside planta-
tions. Up to 1981, all strip plantations had barbed wire fencing and watch-
ers. But barbed wire was discontinued to reduce costs, and also to generate
additional employment by hiring watchers. Moreover, barbed wire fencing
proved difficult to maintain. New protection methods are now being tried,
including cattle-proof trenches and live fencing. Phase two provides a tree
tenure system, which should increase individual involvement in protection.
H. Pilot Tassar Production Component
4.25      Although project design did not explicitly provide for production of
tassar silk cocoons on arjun trees, a pilot component was introduced later in
the project. Forest Department allotted 1 ha of land, each area tended by a
poor farming or landless family. The Bank supervision missions praised Forest
Department success in its organization of the tassar scheme and its special
attempt to provide forestry benefits for the very poor.
4.26      The appraisal mission for the second-phase project, however,
cautioned that Forest Department should not expand tassar activities much more
before conducting a market feasibility study, to ensure that the poor would
not be set up in an activity which lacked profit viability. The second-phase
project in fact provides for such a study. Also, tassar activities would have
to be profitable to justify the organization-intensive and costly input
required from Forest Department in technical assistance.
4.27      One tassar plantation has recently been established on a village
woodlot, comprising 78 ha for about 18 beneficiary families. This approach
may be more viable than scattered sites because it would provide a focal point
for technical assistance and cooperative activities, with possible economies
of scale.



- 35 -
I. Efficient Wood-Burning Stoves
4.28      This component also did not do very well.  Part of the reason is
that the marketing of the stoves was not well-researched.  Further, no exten-
sion was done prior to attempts at adoption. The poor were not willing to
invest in these stoves without convincing proof as to their superiority over
traditional chulahs. Also, some of the stoves seemed to have been faulty in
design due to which they either stopped functioning or consumed too much fuel
which resulted in negative publicity. Further, forestry staff did not have
the necessary knowledge or familiarity with these stoves and thus could
neither promote the ones already existing nor could they develop stoves better
suited to the local physical conditions or sociocultural requirements.
4.29      However, the success of these stoves has varied crea-wise.  For
example, they have been more successful in the Eastern districts and the Hill
areas. The reason for this is that in these areas it is the women folk who do
a major share of the agricultural work and thus earn income: consequently,
they have a say in the adoption of a device which is likely to be beneficial
to them, especially in terms of saving labor or time. Where males are doing
most of the decision-making, they are not likely to show too amuch interest in
technology which improves women's working conditions or reduces their work-
load.
4.30      A further practical reason for nonadoption of these stoves is that
the smoke scted as protection against termite attacks and against mosquitoes
in the house. With the smokeless stoves, it seems the men had to change to
wooden poles of the house more frequently.
4.31      In view of the fact that fuel-efficient stoves have been success-
fully disseminated elsewhere (e.g., 10,000 in Cujarat), an attempt should be
made to introduce these to the rural population in UP. However, this would
require research into local conditions, a properly conceived extension pack-
age, and probably a different extension group than Forest Department.
J. Research
4.32      The project provided a few staff for research; this too was part of
a multifunction unit (Training, Extension and Research). This unit had to
give priority to extension and training functions. Due to this the research
component remained neglected for about a year. It was then decided to hand
over this work to the traditional research wing of Forest Department. The
traditional research wing of Forest Department is very rich in experience and
expertise. But the traditional wing could not always appreciate the needs of
social forestry, with the result that the social forestry research component
could not develop sufficiently, and could not answer all the problems, partic-
ularly in respect of cost reduction techniques yields (seeds, fruits, leaf
fodder, poles and timber) and agroforestry management. Work of quality seed
collection and supply which was one of traditional jobs of traditional
research wing was also entrusted to it, but this job proved so heavy that that
traditional wing was reluctant to undertake it in subsequent years. The
second phase of the project (under National Social Forestry Project) has



- 36 -
therefore provided unifunctional units. The Seed and Research Unit would look
after quality seed supply and applied nursery research. The extension and
training job would now be looked after by two independent units.
K.  Training
4.33      The project provided for training of 32 ACF, 70 rangers, 362 fores-
ters, and 502 FEW (SAR, para. 2.32). ACF have been trained as per provision
in GOI colleges. Rangers have been trained in GOUP and GOI ranger colleges.
All foresters and all FEW could not be trained. This was due to the fact that
department schools did not have spare capacity to train them in view of the
increasing demand of trained foresters and forest guards for normal departmen-
tal needs. The project provided for establishment of two new schools. These
two schools were established but these alone were not able to meet the train-
ing needs. Hence, four more forest guard schools and four more foresters
schools were opened during the last two years (1983, 1984) of the project. As
the project did not provide specifically for the development of these centers,
hence these are in poor shape with respect to instruction, staff, boarding,
lodging, lecture rooms, laboratories, buses, recreation facilities, etc. The
second phase provides for strengthening of these centers apart from establish-
ment of a training college for rangers as present capacity of GOUP and GOI
rangers facilities is not adequate for the purpose. Apart from the above, the
project also provided for the following fellowships, international training
and study hours. Villager training (SAR, para. 2.22) was also provided in the
project to demonstrate the benefits of social forestry activities through
field visits. Twenty-five thousand villagers a year was the target at full
development of the project for one-day training in the project area.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Financial Results
5.1       In rupees, actual financial results compare favorably with the orig-
inal projections [Annex 3(a) and 3(b)]. Deviations occurred due to savings
under the categories of salaries, civil works, self-help village woodlots and
efficient wood-burning stoves. Savings under the salaries category have
resulted from delays in sanctioning posts. Similarly delays occurred under
civil works, although arrangements have now been made to do construction
through other governmental agencies.
5.2       The additional availability of funds under NREP helped in establish-
ing more nurseries than envisaged at appraisal at each development block
level. Thus, at no additional cost to the project, these nurseries have
broadened field extension and distribution of plants to the nearby villagers.
5.3       An anticipated beneficial effect of the price increases for barbed
wire has been that the project could not afford to purchase barbed wire for
fencing, which forced the project to develop a less expensive technique (ridge
and trench), which also raised social benefits since it involved 902 labor.
Thus more employment was provided, apart from more biomass from the vegetative
growth on the ridges.



- 37 -
5.4       The exchange rate of the dollar increased from Rs 8 to 12 during the
project period as given below. This resulted in unutilized credit in amount
of US$2.4 million on March 31, 1985, which was subsequently utilized to meet
the expenditure of plantations raised during 1984 rains and other admissible
expenditures. This bridged Bank involvement to the second-phase period which
coincides with that of Seventh Five-Year Plan (1985/86 to 1990/91).
Table 13: EXCHANGE RATE OF RUPEES TO DOLLAR
(on October 1)
Year                                                 Rs
1979                                                8.01
1980                                                8.04
1981                                                9.15
1982                                                9.70
1983                                               10.25
1984                                               12.09
B. Rate of Return
5.5       The actual financial rate of return of the project is about 12.5%.
This is based on the percentage of trees of various product groups which have
been planted during in the last six rains (1979 to 1984). Since species-1'ise
details of trees planted for 1984 are not available, percentage composition of
1984 has been assumed from 1983 also. Total estimated production is based
largely on standard production estimates, since few trees have been harvested,
and data on growth rates and yields is not good. Details appear in Annexes 4
and 5. As for costs and benefits, Annex 6 shows the benefit streams by prod-
uct. The costs applied for the first six years are the actual costs, while
the rest are estimations.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
6.1       The social forestry organizational structure as proposed in the
project has proved appropriate to the needs of the project. Since additional
money for plantation and nurseries was made available under NREP without addi-
tional staff, the existing staff could not give desired attention all respects
of the work, especially extension (para 6.5).
A. Policy and Support
6.2       As the project progressed, government made policy changes and
provided additional support for social forestry, important examples being:



- 38 -
(a) earmarking of at least 10% of funds for social forestry work in
Rural Development Schemes;
(b) allocation of 2 ha of Government land in each development block for
setting up of departmental nurseries;
(c) provision of loans at concessional rates (differential rate of
interest) to farmers for social forestry;
(4) drastic relaxation of regulations governing felling of individually
owned trees;
(e) allowing sale of plants at subsidized rates (less than the cost);
prior to this project, no such provisions had been made;
(f) inclusion of social forestry in the 20-point program of the Prime
Minister and monitoring of the program at that level;
(g) higher financial allocations for the social forestry program than
originally anticipated;
(h) intensification of training curriculum for forestry personnel, par-
ticularly on extension and communication aspects; commercial bank
for loans sanctioned for social forestry;
(i) institutional financing for government agencies and individuals for
social forestry;
(j) inclusion of social forestry in the curriculum of High School Exami-
nations; and
(1) strengthened efforts at mobilizing local participation.
6.3       In particular, the provision of 10% of the NREP scheme funds for
social forestry, and allocation of 2 ha government/community land in each
development block for nurseries helped promote the project. These nurseries
are radiating the social forestry message.
6.4       In addition, provision of interest subsidy, the refinancing facil-
ity, cost subsidies, decentralization of nurseries, and inclusion of social
forestry in the 20-point program gave valuable support to the program.
B. Staffing
6.5       On the other hand, the overburdened project staff could not provide
the guidance and assistance required by farmers. At many places, this has
sometimes resulted in wrong choice of species, heavy mortalities and unrealis-
tic expectations by the farmers. In part, overburdening of existing staff
occurred because of delays in sanctioning and positioning additienal staff
under the project. But even once most of these staff were positioned, the
expanded social forestry program (including various other schemes) meant
social forestry staff were insufficient to undertake overall targets.



- 39 -
6.6       The pattern of the organizational growth, as shown in the followiLg
table, has been smooth.
Table 14: FOREST DEPARTMENT STAFFING, 1979-83
Staff position  Existing  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
CCF (SF)             -        -         -        -         -        1         1
ACCF (SF)            -        1         1        1         1        -         -
Regions              1        2         3        4         4        4         4
MEU                  -        -         -        -         1         1        1
Training Unit        -        -         -        -         1        1         1
PIR Unit             -        1         1        1         1        1         1
TER Unit             -        1         1        1         1        1         1
Divisions           10        5        11       18        18       18        18
C. Nurseries
6.7       The present number of nurseries at the block level (each block
serving about 100 villages) is not sufficient for the densely populated State
of UP. Furthermore, the transportation required to take seedlings to distant
plantation sites has resulted in excessive costs in terms of time, money
spent, and plant mortality. The lesson learned is that nurseries at the Naya
Panchayat (group of about ten villages) level--preferably farmer or school
nurseries--seem to be the most appropriate solution, although these additional
nurseries would require added staff.
D. Support Services
6.8       Another bottleneck in maintaining the quality of the work was the
lack of trained staff. In part, this problem arose due to insufficient train-
ing facilities in respect to forest guards, foresters and rangers. For
resolving this problem, five temporary training centers (in tents) for forest
guards and foresters were established in late 1983, although permanent fac.li-
ties are needed. Apart from this, a separate ranger college for training
rangers has been needed to take care of clearing the training backlog as well
as training new recruits. The Phase II project makes provision for a ranger
college.
6.9       Recent staff training, which has used revised curricula (which laid
more stress on social forestry), has helped improve the quality of social
forestry work considerably. This is because the skills and aptitude needed
for social forestry are quite different than the "police" nature of tradi-
tional forestry or commercial nature of production forestry. Due to the
establishment of the 29 separate divisions for social forestry, the staff
posted in these divisions has become specialized and gathered practical expe-
rience, contributing to greater organizational effectiveness. Special orien-
tation and training camps have been organized for manpower development.



- 40 -
6.10      A skeleton staff was provided for seed testing and research, and was
placed under the traditional forestry research wing. While this lent support
of a well-developed research staff, the staff lost its social forestry iden-
tity and objective. The seed collection and testing work was accorded rela-
tively low priority, and the nursery and plantation program suffered due to
this. This unit did not provide the expected information on low-cost/high-
production models, and yield estimates for various tree products on land
outside the forest reserve.
6.11      The extension unit proposed in the project was supposed to perform
the following three functions, and hence named "Training, Extension and
Research Division": (a) Training; (b) Extension; and (c) Research. After a
year and half of project operation, it was considered necessary to transfer
research work to the Research Wing of the Forest Department to reduce the
workload of this TER Unit, and thereby allow the unit to attend the remaining
two functions more effectively. This Unit was not equipped to handle project
extension needs, hence strengthening has been proposed in Phase II including
provision of consulting services and transfer of its training work to the
training cell.
6.12      The mobility of technical staff is critical in raising the quality
of plantations under farm forestry. The first phase did not provide adequate
vehicles, which adversely affected quality, cost effectiveness and the scope
of supervision.
E. Management and Organizational Effectiveness
6.13      During the implementation of Phase I, the social forestry director-
ate established itself well within the Forest Department, and improved the
Department's effectiveness in dealing with the "social" aspects. To supervise
work of more than Rs 30 lakh did require separate social forestry field divi-
sions. However, due to additional funds from other programs, these field
divisions were called on to handle more money than they were equipped for
under the project.
6.14     Definite improvement has taken place in information and reporting
systtms, including training the compilers who collect the information and
forward it for analysis by senior officials. However, the unsystematic intro-
duction of new (nonproject) social forestry targets and money has complicated
monitoring, reporting and management. Efforts are being made under the phase
two to get timely and planned release under these schemes. But management of
the hnk-financed project proved to be simple and no serious problems have
arism. Efforts are being made to computerize the system, which may require
services of experienced consultants.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.1      Directly quantifiable benefits stem from increased production of
timber/poles and, to a small extent, fuelwood. The appraisal expectation that
fodder and other forest produce would become available in significant quanti-



- 41 -
ties has not materialized. The leaves of eucalyptus, the principal species
grown under the project, are not eaten by animals and therefore do not have
any fodder value.
Appraisal Estimates
7.2       At appraisal, the project's ELR was calculated with the following
assumptions:
(a) project life of 35 years, including an implementation period of five
years;
(b) full development reached in Year 11;
(c) fuelwood valued at market price less the economic cost of bringing
it to the market; fodder value baE..d on potential increase in milk
production where milk has been priced at local market price; and
economic price of timber treated equal to financial price;
(d) unskilled labor valued at 65% of the actual market wage; and
(e) consideration of incremental production of fodder, fuelwood, timber
and other produce from the plantations both in farm and public
forestry.
PCR
7.3       The recalculation of the ERR for the project follows basically the
method adopted at appraisal. Main differences were:
(a) actual cost and estimated actual produce from plantations are used
for project years 1979/80 to 1984185; past expenditures have been
restated in 1985 prices using the wholesale price index. Investment
costs have been charged to public plantations without apportioning
any amount to farm forestry;
(b) incremental production of only timber, fuelwood (including, lops,
tops and waste) and poles is considered;
(c) all values are expressed in 1984/85 terms (project's final disburse-
ment year 1984/85);
(d) prices of nontraded goods and services including farm labor are
based on domestic prices. Domestic prices have been translated into
"border" rupees by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.8.
The opportunity cost of unskilled labor is estimated at 70% of the
financial wage rate. After adjusting this by SCF of 0.8, a specific
conversion factor of 0.56 has been used; and
(e) net benefits from farm forestry have not been included as ERR for
this has been separately reestimated on the basis of 1-ha model.



- 42 -
7.4       The recalculated ERR based on the above is 19X for the project,
excluding farm forestry. The new ERR is higher than the appraisal estimate of
12.4Z. 6Jhe major contributory factors are primarily current high output
prices _ and also an increase in the area planted.
7.5       The ERR for farm forestry has been reestimated by converting the
financial prices into economic values; the reestimated ERR exceeds 100Z for
both boundary and block planting, even after making allowances for production
foregone. The high ERR for farm forestry is accounted for by the very low
investment costs in relation to yield and revenue which, unlike in conven-
tional forestry projects, occur at an early stage starting from Year 4 (Annex
7).
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.1       Based on whaE was known at identification, conceptualization of
project objectives and justification was appropriate and correct, and the
project developed as planned.
8.2       Size, scheduling and complexity of the components was appropriate,
except for the farm forestry component which exceeded many times that
anticipated.
8.3       Project design was appropriate.  The SAR provided a gradually
increasing social forestry workload in each division, as field organization
was strengthened, with primary emphasis on extension and nurseries (SAR, para.
2.18). But divisions progressed faster than anticipated on departmental plan-
tations, in order to meet their quantitative targets; full working capacity
was reached in two years versus the projected three.
8.4       Scheduling of civil works was correct given the original social
forestry scope, but additional allotment under Rural Development Schemes did
not leave any time for the staff either to supervise the civil works or to
arrange for nonforest land for construction of buildings.
8.5       The supervision teams of the World Bank were helpful in advising
project staff. The timing of visits of these teams occurred generally
semiannually and was sufficient.
6/   The upward trend in prices is likely to continue in the foreseeable
future. Even assuming that there would be a decline in prices, sensitiv-
ity analyses carried out show that prices must fall by at least 40X in
order to reduce the ERR below the appraisal estimate.



_ 43 -
IX. EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES
9.1       Uncertainties affecting the PCR at this stage are that:
(a) it is too early to predict yields and production levels from the
plantations established during Phase I;
(b) there is a risk that benefits may not trickle down to the poor,
weaker sections of the society; and
(c) it is too early to predict how farmers will chose to use their
trees, for example use of eucalyptus for poles or for small timber
or for fuelwood.
9.2       The project deviated somewhat from original technical recommenda-
tions (e.g., planting on government wastelands and changing species mixture in
comparison to original tactics for planting on community lands and sticking to
a set species mixture). In the future, the recommended species mix must be
followed more strictly. There should be prescribed procedures for shifting
from one approach to another, stating comparative priorities. Seed testing,
soil testing, drainage surveys and water table surveys must be done in the
district prior to plantation for better success.
9.3       Training must be given highest priority and the standard of training
classes must be improved by providing teaching aids and proper environment.
9.4       Mobility of staff must be ensured for better assistance, education
and training to farmers.
9.5       Staffing should be done completely and on time, keeping in view all
the schemes under which social forestry works are to be done by the field
staff irrespective of the source of funding (World Bank Project, NREP, RLCEP,
etc.).
9.6       Beneficiaries must be associated with departmental activities from
the very beginning of the plantatian work. It may be desirable to introduce a
tree-tenure system on government land in all locations where that is possible.
9.7       The scheme should be taken out of the district sector and placed
under State Sector for timely financial allotments.
9.8       The planning wing needs to be strengthened, to provide macro and
micro planning models for the field.
9.9       Monitoring and evaluation guidelines should be refined and adhered
to. Services of a consultant to computerize this activity are recommended.



45                              ANNEX 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT ACREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Physical Achievements
TarRet         Achievement
A. Plantation (hectares)
Farm forestry seeding distribution                 8                101 La
Roadside plantationis                          7,000             22,763
Railwayside plantations                        4,000              7,342
Canalside plantations                        16,000              10,628
Rehabilitated degraded forests                13,600             23,437
Self-help community woodlots                  3,080               1,576
Supervised village voodlots                   5,000              10,689
Tassar plantation                                  -                691
B. Resources (number)
New nurseries                                     90              1,166
Distribution of fuel-efficient stoves          1,000                  -
Building expenditures (Rs million)              14.8               15.1
Training expenditures (Rs million)              1.5                 1.6
Cars and Jeeps                                    57                 25
Tractors                                        130                 127
Vans/buses                                        10                  4
/a 354 million distributed through all programs.



-4-                                ANNEX 2
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIST OF PUBLICATIONS PREPARED BY FOREST DEPARTMENT ON SOCIAL FORESTRY
(a)   Quarterly progress reports of the project, in the format finalized
by the World Bank, Supervision Mission in late 1980.
(b)   Some of the bulletins prepared by this units are:
No. 5     Project Implementation Models
No. 6     Tassar Scheme (T. arjuna plantation)
No. 7     Mulberry (M. alba) Scheme
No. 8     Mahua (M. Latifotia) Tree Planting Scheme
No. 9     Kanjee (P. pinnata) Tree Plantation Scheme
No. 10    Urban Tree Plantation Scheme
No. 11    Flood Control Scheme for River Gomti
No. 12    Operation and Financial Plans for the Project
No. 13    Report for Robert S. McNamara, the then President,
World Bank for his visit to the Project Area
No. 14    Report for Mr. Fazel Adhmed, Member Planning
Commission, Government of India
No. 15    Progress Report (up to March 1981) for
Government of India
No. 16    Semi-annual Report (up to March 1981)
No. 17    Species-wise planting detail ot plantations raised
during 1980 rain (Districtwise & Landwise)
No. 19    NREP Project for Social Forestry for Sixth Plan
No. 20    Physical achievement of plantations during 1979
and 1980 rains (Districtwise & Landwise)
No. 21    Physical achievement of plantations (Districtwise
& Landwise) during 1981 rains
No. 21A   Districtwise and A-.aadwise details of Arjun and
Mulberry Plantations
No. 22    Species-wise details of planting of 1981 rains
No. 23    Physical achievement of plantations of 1982 rain
(Districtwise & Landwise)
No. 24    Report of Working Group on Social Forestry for
Seventh Plan Period (1985-90)
No. 25    Species-wise details of planting of 1983 rains



-47-                               ANNEX 3
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Land Use in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh
('000 ha)
Gujarat          Uttar Pradesh
Total area                                        18,822               29,739
Cultivated area                                   10,695               24,574
Area under foodgrain crops                        10,039               20,621
Area under fiber crops                             1,577                   96
Area under tobacco                                   131                    15
Area under sugarcane                                  98                1,437
Area under fruit trees                                65                   197
Total area planted (1,500 seedlings/ha)              345                  166
Area under farm forestry                             238                   89
Area of farm forestry on farmland                    119                   45
Area of village woodlots/gomal lands                  38                    12
Area of degraded forest rehabilitation                30                   23
Area of strip plantations                             38                   41
Percentage farm forestry on farmland
vs. total cultivated area                            1X                   XZ



ANNEX 3-a
- 48 - 
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Year-Wise Financial Progress
(RS Million)
Year              SAR Estimate            Actuals
1        1979-80               53.28                 34.050
2        1980-81               65.15                 57.142
3        1981-82               90.15                 91.979
4        1982-83               89.07                101.260
5        1983-84              102.35                121.707
6        1984-85                -                    73.617
Total                400.00                479,755



ANNEX 3-b
- 49 -
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ACTUAL EXPENDITURE FROM 1979-80 TO UPTO JUNE 1984
Including tentative exnenditure of 1984-85 unto September 1984
Expenditure (Rs Million)
S.No.   Head                1979-80   80-81    81-82    82-83    83-84    84-85   Total
1     Plantation          23.896   44.301   67.656   71.817   81.931   46.426  338.099
establishment
2     Seed testing             -    0.035    0.912    2.813    0.993          -    4.753
& research
3     Building &           1.221    1.486    3.065    3.648    5.350    0.637   15.405
housing
4     Equipment                -        -    1.291    0.422    0.414    0.075    2.202
5     Training             0.192    0.150    0.205    0.308    0.622    0.226    1.703
6     Vehicles             4.105    3.243    4.542    0.096    0.780          -   12.766
7     Staff salaries       2.652    5.821   10.327   17.329   24.108   20.992   81.229
8     Other operating      1.984    2.106    3.981    4.793    7.509    5.191   25.564
expenses
Total               34.050   57.142   91.979  101.226  121.707   73.617  479.721
*   Consolidated figures of audited accounts of regions and directorate.
These consolidated figures still need confirmation of A.G. Government of U.P.
** Figures of 1984-85 (upto June 1984) are unaudited.



ANNEX 4
z1 I    A.
o    2-    Sofl 
NO~



- 51-                                ANNEX 5
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TOTAL ESTIMATED PRODUCTION
Small      Oil         Edible   Edible    Tassar
Fuelwood      timber      Seed       Fruit    Flowers   Cocoons  Grasses
Year   MT ('000)  MT (t000)  MT ('000)  MT ('000)  MT ('000)  Lakh    MT ('000)
1       -            -          -            -          -        -           _
2       -            -          -            -          -        -          3.2
3       -            -          -            -          -        -          6.7
4                                                                _         11.5
5       -            -          -            -          -        -         17.4
6       -            -          -            -          -        -         23.8
7     143.5          -         1.9           -          -      524.4       31.0
8     156.5          -         2.8           -          -     1080.8       31.0
9     140.9          -         4.4          0.2         -     1885.4       31.0
10     266.5          -         6.7          0.9        0.4    2650.0       31.0
11     120.4          -         7.4          1.4        1.5    3400.4       31.0
12     143.5          -         8.1          2.3        2.3    2940.4       31.0
13     156.5          -         9.0          2.9        3.8    3940.4       31.0
14     140.9          -        10.6          3.6        5.4    3940.4       31.0
15     266.5          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
16     120.4          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
17     143.5          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
18     156.5          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
19     140.9          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
20     266.5          -        12.4          3.6        7.0    3940.4       31.0
21     120.4          -        12.4          4.4        7.0    3940.4       31.0
22     143.5          -        12.4          7.2        7.0    3940.4       31.0
23     156.5          -        12.4          9.2        7.0    3940.4       31.0
24     140.9          -        12.4          9.2        7.0    3940.4       31.0
25     266.5          -        12.4         15.2        7.0    3940.4       31.0
26     120.4          -        12.4         18.0        7.0    3940.4       31.0
27     143.5          -        12.4         18.0        7.0    3940.4       31.0
28     165.5          -        12.4         18.0        7.0    3940.4       31.0
29     140.9          -        12.4         18.0        7.0    3940.4       31.0
30     266.5        186.3    1.4           i8.0        7.0    3940.4       31.0
31     120.4        238.1      11.4         17.0        7.0    3795.2       27.8
32     143.5        326.6      10.0         13.5        5.5    3324.0       24.3
33     156.5        434.1       8.6         11.0        4.7    2749.6       19.5
34     140.9        874.0       6.8          6.5        3.2    2040.8       13.6
35     158.4        983.0       3.6          3.5        1.6    1080.8        7.2



- 52-                                     ANNEX 6
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR'I
BENEFIT STREAMS BY PRODUCT
(Rs Million)
Fuel    Small    Oil        Edible    Edible   Tassar
Year   wood    timber   Seeds    Fruits    Flowers  Cocoons   Grasses   Total
1      -         -        -          -          -        -          -         -
2      -         -        -          -          -         -        0.03      0.03
3      -         -        -          -          -         -        0.07       0.07
4      -         -        -          -          -         -         0.12      0.12
5      -         -        -          -          -         -        0.17       0.17
6      -         -        -          -          -         -         0.24      0.24
7     72.0       -     0.19          -          -       2.70       0.31    75.20
8     78.0       -      0.28         -          -        4.71       0.31    83.30
9     70.0       -      0.44         -          -        6.63       0.31    77.38
10    133.0       -      0.67      0.02       0.08       8.50       0.31   142.58
11     60.0       -      0.74      0.09       0.30       9.85        0.31    71.29
12     72.0       -      0.81      0.14       0.46       9.85       0.31    83.57
13     78.0       -      0.90      0.23       0.76       9.85       0.31    90.05
14     70.0       -      1.06      0.24        1.08      9.85       0.31    82.54
15    133.0       -      1.24      0.36        1.40      9.85       0.31   146.16
16     60.0       -      1.24      0.36        1.40      9.85       0.31    73.16
17     72.0       -      1.24      0.36        1.40      9.85        0.31    85.16
18     78.0       -      1.24      0.36        1.40      9.85        0.31    91.16
19     70.0       -      1.24      0.36        1.40      9.85       0.31    83.16
20    133.0       -      1.24       0.36       1.40       9.85       0.31   146.16
21     60.0       -      1.24       0.44       1.40       9.85       0.31    73.24
22     72.0       -      1.24       0.72       1.40       9.85       0.31    85.52
23     78.0       -      1.24       0.92       1.40       9.85       0.31    91.72
24     70.0       -      1.24       0.92       1.40       9.85       0.31    83.72
25    133.0       -      1.24       1.52       1.40       9.85       0.31   147.32
26     60.0       -      1.24       1.80       1.40       9.85       0.31    74.60
27     72.0       -      1*24       1.80       1.40       9.85       0.31    86.60
28     78.0       -      1.24       1.80       1.40       9.85       0.31    92.60
29     70.0       -      1.24       1.80       1.40       9.85       0.31    84.60
30    133.0      27.9   1.24        1.80       1.40       9.85       0.31   175.50
31     60.0      35.7   1.14        1.70       1.40       9.49       0.28   109.71
32     72.0      49.0   1.00        1.35       1.10       8.21       0.24   132.50
33     78.0      65.1   0.68        1.10       0.94       6.87       0.20   155.07
34     70.0    131.1   0.68         0.65       0.64       5.10       0.14   208.31
35    133.0    147.5   0.36         0.35       0.32       2*70       0.07   284.30



ANNEX 7
- 53 -
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 925-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Analysis
List of Tables
1.  Investment Costs in Financial and Economic Terms
2. Survival and Yield Data of Sample Plantations
3.  Roadside PLantation - Maintenance Costs and Production Value in Economic
Terms
4. Degraded Forest Plantation - Maintenance Costs and Production Value in
Economic Terms
5. Village Common Land Plantation - Maintenance Costs and Production Value
in Economic Terms
6. Canalside Plantation - Maintenance Costs and Production Value in Economic
Terms
7. Railside Plantation - Maintenance Costs and Production Value in Economic
Terms
8. Farm Forestry Block Planting - Financial Analysis
9. Farm Forestry Bund Planting - Financial Analysis
10; Economic Rate of Return



UITAR PRADESM SOCIAL FORSTLU
Investment Costs In Financial mad Economic Terms
................ ............    million) .......................
Annual project financial expenditure                   34.05      57.14       91.99      101.27     121.71       73.02
Wholesale price index 1/                               73.30      82.30        83.20      65.30      93.40      100.00
Annual expenditure in 1904-85 prices                   48.40      69.40       110.50     116.70      t30.30      73.62     1
Annual expenditure in economic terms
(adjusted by SCF of 0.6)                              37.12       SS.S2      86.40        94.96     104.24       73.62
1J Sourcot Reserve Bank of India Bulletin.
0>z
cr z
H m
tD X



!~~~~~wo~ji1  aao 1111 VIam&iai 0uIitt
!m!ULH!him           !          kit  lmi Iniul bLu.   WA   kit til  tuuiimlt No in                                      N J     ki  SotL1mi hul  W!t1
luj        4(g, )  (a l          t     t (hal1   1u         (h) iRI    k           a)  XalII)  ilauatim  (ha)          I)         t h)      kalA)
1. 1 Allrb             33        3.52   74.6      2.79      54.94          2      3.23    U.U      6.13      34.27
2. 1  Oaa              3m        1.24   61.33      0.19       3."
3. s9 Sita             1911  I.I         I."       1.93      23.31       -         -       -        -          -                    -        -       -           -
4.     cajipa          3m 3       .4    33.73      3.2n     2.47              -        -        -         -          -         -        -            -          -
S. S  CaJipr           132       3.       9.33    3.          1.45       -         -        .        .                    .         .        . 
4. I  Pouh1a           1934      1..4    45.45     1.92       Il         -         -        -        -         -         39n       IN      6.33      3.15       4.53               Vs
7. Sr Solta r          1         IA lU   56.x3     3.47       it        393       3.35   1.74       1.19      4.1         -         -        -        -          -
B. Sf loaor            tin2      3.U    71.13      3.57       2.97       -         -        -       -          -          93       3.4      I.A      3.3         ll
9. 9 fatabad            -         --   -                       -         9m       2.53    3.9      2.2S.      9.42
It. SF faiabad           -         -       *99                                    I*      4*.3    13.2         I.3  il    -          -        - 
11. sr                   -         -        -        -         -        379       3.43    35.3      3.3       52.53       1933      5.3    43.1      2.43       U4.9
12. S  lreitll           -         -        -        -         -         -         -        -        -          -         1m        3.3    24.31    .13         7.13
total                   3311.3    3.31    7.t7                          13.35   53.1       4.74                           13.42    33.31    3.47
1/ 9.wl. not waswd tot  plalt Ins tha 3 postr old.
2/ Low  teld dw to wat.rlow "i3.
Source: Swore data of s's.,e areas by Ce.f. Coas elaor of reMts 4SOCiAl Foret.)l, UP, LICh to, d4tQd 17 &"Iq t 393, MSG lo. 29-1.
*o  its are, u ot  available lo loraded Forest sad Ctwaiy Fluata ioa.
co
'A ITz
m 11.



UT, P3AKDESH SOCIAL FIOISIUV  PIJfflJE
!a1diide flantatism - Nainl enince Costs and Frrd!t!un Val!!_e_nf fcsn. ac!I
ftj       !_ _ E.3  Tr 4  YrS  !'r 6  to 7    St 0Yr Y _ t  ! Irt !! Tr 12 Y_1!3 11   14 Vt _1  !tr 161rt 17 I fi t  I!
n-0e  eu-et 01-12 6V-53 03-04 54 O5 r4-e6 U6-87 87-8V 80-s9 e9-91 93-91 91-92 92-93 9JS-94 94-95 9-96 96-97 97-9
Pliqtit   di
79-81     2,518  2,810 2,618 2,818 2,610 2,919 2,690 2,019 2,019 2,919 2,918 2,018 2,619 2,919 2,918 2,018 2,019 2,018 2,919 2,816
8e-S1     2,416    -   2.4%  2,49  2,4% 2,496 2,49  2,496 2,6 2,4%  2,496 2,496 2,496 2,496 2,496 2,6 2,496 2,496 2,496 2,496
91412     3,375    -      -   3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3, 375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375
92-93     4,526    -      -      -   4,520 4,2B 4,523 4,520 4,50 4,520 4,520 4,520 4,528 4,528 4,529 4,521 4,529 4,4J 4,529 4,529
03-04     4,470    -      -                4,478 4,478 4,478 4,478 4,4710 4,478 4,479 4,476 4,478 4,478 4,479 4,479 4,478 4,470 4,479
84-05  JAI_ ___ _...                                          LIN_M. _ _ _ _ iae Mm t! [A! UW U!    %M .q 5,g9 M    , l.90 ! ,IP J U,!80
Tatal    22,703
Cs,,latiue         2819  5314 809 13217 17695 22703 273 2273 M8793 m23 22708 22703 2278  22793 29  273 22703 2273 22783
Haseletasce cesitit
aft le  1994-5
IlS  illi )        -     -     -      -     -      -    1.15  3.15   .151 *.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  3.15  6.15  3.15  6.15  3.15
79-f  Fuuled        -     -                        5-  -  4.1   -  -   -     -    51.4   -      -      -     -    48.0   -      -      -
Tiif        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -                                 n
81-81  Feltusd    -       -      -     -     -      -    47.9   -      -     -      -    45.5   -      -     -      -    43.3   -      -
litrr       -                   -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     - 
81-82  fnwasd       -     -      -     -     -      -     -    64.0   -      -      -     -    61.6   -      -      -     -    58.5   -
82-93  fnlmWd       -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -    9.?   -       -     -      -    82.6   -      -     -     -    70.5
i jt                     -      -                  -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -
03-04  fuwlued    -       -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -    96.3   -      -     -      -    91.7   -      -     -      -
hutb        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     .            .                     
84-05  FuIlsed    -       -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -    97.7   -      -      -     -    92.9   -      -      -
fuelvd              -     -     -      -     -    22.1  19.6  26.6  35.6  35.3  61.1  10.6  25.3  33.9  33.5  58.1  17.9  24.1  32.2
11.6er                 -        -         -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -         - . 



!rJ!  ! L LX  !2iS !L TEA  RA  R!   It-LBLtA! !U!  TE- YEcJ-  e-I ILJi !cJ3
9   -l U-Si 61-02 a0-13 0344 14-15 15-4                7-l  8-3  f-  10-l 11-1212-131314
tielms Si
-f                  7  l   73TX   7U73h8 7r  731 ?73678738   73 7  8730 731 7U6 71
f-us        04      04  34   64    74    4   64   974  P4    74   84    74   64    74  64   974   74
-12       1,179   1,179 1,1"  1,179 1,171 1,179 1,179 1,179 1,179 1,179 1,179 1,179 l,179 1,179 1,179 1,179 1,179
32-63     1,      1, 133 ,2 1,332    1,32    1,32 1,3m    1,2 1,'m   l ,32 1,o   1,332 1$332 1,32 1,32 1,332 1,32
83-1      1,55    1,55 I,= 1,5%  1,55  1,5S  1,551 1,55I   1, 1,51,5ISP  1,55  :,S    ,9  1,553 1,5 9  1,553
04-65     IH!   tI1 LI!! hi!! 1i1 hI!! 1                , 6H   hin  ti i!H A! L,!L! JAM!  hi! La 1hi!
fetal    7,343
Cumliae           1,343 7,34  7,343 7,343 7,343 7,143 7,343 7,343 7,343 7,34  7,314  7,343 7,343 7,343 7,343 7,343
IIaistusaK    st 11
after 19-
(1s milli"e)       3.35  3.65   .65  6.65  3.05   .5  0.35  6.65  0.65  6.35  1.15  0.35  0.65  3.65  0.35  3.35
I'm .31
79-fiFeMld                7.5-                          7.2  -       -     -    -      -    -      -     -     -
liara        -     -    -      -    -      -     -     -     -     -     6.6 -              -     -     -
n-61  Fbl.9                                                         -      -     -     -     -    -      -    -
li                 -     -     -    -      -     -     -     -     -             .4 
81-82 F1u d         -2.1                                -             .4   - -       -   -       -       -     -
lia          -     -     -     -    -      -    -      -     -     -     -      -    12.7   -     -    -
62-031IFueed        -     -     -     -   1.6 -         -     -          12.9-      -        -           -    -
line         -     -     -     -   -   -      -    -      -     -     -         -     -    14.4
02-64 Fule         1.   -       -     -          15.8   -     -     -     -    15.9    -     -     -     -     -
line         -     -     -     -    -      -    -    -       -    -      -     -    -      -    56.7   -
14-0   flaMe        -    17.9   -     -     -     -    17.6                           16.2   -    -      -     -
hiae         -    -      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -      -    16.6
(is Milliel
Fluelsed            6.6  16.4  3.6   4.9  5.6   6.5  9.9  3.5   4.7  4.9  6.1   6.6   -    -             -    -
limr                -     -    -      -    -      -     -     -     -     -     1.1   1.1  15.2   1.?  2.1  2.2
iuae  testl fre  19 le 1984-65 incled ader  plulatien establivAut cost, bereatwer iantenzace is a ssned to inclve out wIthew
for etwl 25 be *1 a fiatjecl wage of ks3il p  maeal or ec'asaat  we of Isli  pm er matl O330 s 3.56.
U/ Bused as amage fild o1 17 m3/ha per swree  data, sccmrina is Years 6, It, It, 21 ad 26 fe  fueluosd wilth 21 decline; for toober assumed a>
alma.. lield of 1II iMa fhII stocked treced by tArialitl of 6n, ieto.g effective lield of6 a3lba3; ma: of 1.,l...d 712, talor 33?.                . 01
V  fivaacial  rite *f oaloAr taken as hl,516i4   covrted is ecaa.mac price et f  sl,2si sig 5t t  t.8; fto  ler     d  a Wright"d "Aw00 it tn  oQ  0  ?
%e    uf.0a   at            i AS . SS  b      .   .   _ aa_   h___ .*                _. _  _.                              ..  - X
'.



9!!sMce  F!ELsj 4P 1f!tqZ          MOlenuweeC$sts and Prod sclia Va)l   i    !en   ic  TerMts
It-  f1r   IE-3  !rA  !LI  IrA   iLt     LA  10        it-t L! I-ll I  ? !kA2     IS11  IS-0 !L!A IULS  I10. ILl!
"-11 04-01 01-02 02-03 93-04 U4-05 95-8  0b-87  7-80   -9 09-91  -91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 9-9%   -97 97-90
!laahao k
79-u       2,523  2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2.523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523
U-01       3,162    -   3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162
91-82      4,333    -     -  4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,331 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333
02-^3      4,032    -     -     -   4,032 4,132 4,632 4,132 4,632 4,332 4,632 4,132 4,632 4,012 4,632 4,132 4,632 4,032 4,132 4,032
83-94      4,560    -     -     -     -   4,519 4,518 4,590 4,561 4,560 4,508 4,568 4,509 4,508 4,519 4,590 4,561 4,509 4,519 4,508
04-85  1!!                      __.! U!!U!i A   !!!    J?h F                                                                   U! 89 7  n
1T1oa     23,437                                                                                                                                            c
Ceaulatiw          2523 519  10618 14056 1A58 2347 233437 2343? 23U4  23437 2347 23437 23437 23437 23437 23437 23417 23437 2347
Ibajotuce cstul/
after 194-S
ils milliel         -     -     -     -    -      -    0.16   .16  6.16  0.16  6.16  6.11  6.16  6.16  1.14  0.16  6.16  0.16  0.16
tIis1iea
79-4  Fslw-d        -                            33-  -  -    -3.3             28-8 -  -  - -                 27.3   -     -     -
lTder                                                                        -  -    -                  -    -      - 
01-81  f            -    -      -     -    -      -       9   -     -      -     -           -     -     -    -        4. -      -
liAwi
81-11  FwW1uI       -     -     -     -     -     -     -           8- 4.4                      -46.           -                43.7
lib          -    -      -     -    -      -     -    -            _    _       _     _    _            _     _     . -   
lisb
93-U4  Fuulud       -    -    -       -    -      -                      5 -4.   -     --   51.4   -                 -     -    _                  '  '3 I,
04-05 fol ---                                                                       ---    59.                5 ---  S-   f  
iarw         -    -    -       -    -      -     -    -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -
ftLdvEli_V %e If
iLs dlIli.Y      1
Foelosed            -     -     -     -    -    12.4  14.5 21.3  19.8 23,    35.8  14.9  2.21  18.8  21.1 33.9  14.0  19.2  17.1
briber                       -           -    



!t   U!rsl !c10 !       E2 ! ft        YE lt27 Yr 29 1r 29  r Jk   Vt 3! lt 3 Yr 33 Yr 34 Yr 35
"-9 "410 00-01 01-02 02-0S 13-14 04-65 *5I6 16-17 V7-8 n8-9 19-I 10-l1 1I-12? 12-l3 13-14
Pi!hli4   k
79-80     2,523   2,5  2,23 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,523 2,5212,523 2,52J 2,523 2,t1 2,513 2,523 2,523 2,W?3 2,523
S0-st     3,162   3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,162 3,142 3,16  3,162 3,16? J,162 3,142 3,162 3,162
01-?      4,333   4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333 4,133  4,333 4,333 4,333 4,333
82-83     4,032   4,032 4,632 4,032 4,032 4,032 4,012 4,032 4,032 4,012 4,032 4,032 4,032 4,032 4,032 4,032 4,132
83-84     4,511  4,501 4,509 4,518 4,536 4,508 4,560 4,500 4,598 4,569 4,508 4,509 4,588 4,508 4,538 4,538 4,519
64-85     4AU     JAB ._    ! U! JA     ! U! U! U! U!! JA! U!!   !! U!! U!! U8!? U!!    !
14tal     7,343
CeAlUatite         2337234   2343 23437 337 23437 2437437 2347 23437 23437 23437 23437 23437 23437 23437
laimteae cestvl
after  9i485
(Rsiliol)          0.134   .14  0.14  3.14  3.14  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16  0.16 3.16  0.16  0.16  6.16  3.16
!ilouin
('los 03)
79-90 Flud          -   24.0   -    -    -        -   24.6  -
iVer                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27.0
I0ii.               -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -         -    - -                -    -      -    -
fl-SI Fborlou      - 35 -    _             .    . -3        -    -    -    34.0 
0102 ia""        -    -    -    -4    -    -    -    -    -.   -    -    34.   -    -    -    -
91-92 folis.d       -     -     -   44.6-         -               42.4        --     -     -    -     -     -
fuler        -    -    -    -    -         -    -    -    -    -    -         -  47.6-         - 
02-13  f elud       -    -    -    -   41.5   -    -    -          -   39.4   -    -    -    -    -    -
linu               -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -            -    -   44.4  -       -
93-U4 ful d        46.3   -    -    -    -    46.4   -    -    -    -   44.1   -    -    -    -    -
huet         -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                  _                _ -,    _  9. 
94-5 falesed        -   52.1   -    -    -    -   50.2   -    -    -    -   47.7   -    -    -    -
lii.         -     -     -     -     -                              -    -  -         -        -    53.6
(Is million)
Ftelsow            20.1  2.3  13.3  10.3 17.0  19.0  30.7  12.7  17.4  16.1  10.1  -    -    -    -    -
IlRArW              -    -    -    -    -              -    -    -    -   33.4  41.9  57.1 53.3  59.5 44.3
!/ NaIrte.uao costS  *rs. 0979-fl to 194-35 iuioded sWer plantation establishenut cos, thfter lsaisteaaace is assuled to lsaut me  tcher
(or "Irv 2S ha ot a fimacial we. of 5P311 pr moth or ecasric vge of Isl6  per  oninh 131110.561.
2/ hed o uWraqe pilld Of 13/ha per surW  dWat,  ccrriA  i Years 6, f 11, 14, 21 and .26 fr ftelsod with 20Z decline, for lior  ased o
OVWae  leld Of II m1h  follf stocbed, redKed b, Portalifl of 5. 2 givinq effective yield of 55  i/Jba; nit .r Oil foelod      20n smil tiWeW
F fInaKial Price sf tIier  ate. at olf ,5HI/ cCnerted to econK miC price Of IsO,10 nSim  SU of t.0; for foulsos a Wighted iagee price is              3           '*9 >
s&689 b%qA5b2       ii  e   4 fs    % tA      at . tu.....................t w .k e 1. ..4..6  -  ........ ...&...8 6..2 -4*  _.-  -.W  _ . a                0* 0  z
0    -



U!, nt     ........... Lto-.-Xo-f----!   ----7------
!iAiIIL -I-!t!4-I!4 JtiiL  Illaitsaao   Costs -    p6 !  i-d--!! t !!-Value is tcm.uc 1lltru-
hri  1i     Xci  fi  fr   fYE     R-1  1RA   R.!  Ir.1  fclI !fts  1c0   kl !L15 it-i  P  1? r!   c11in
79-33 "3-3  91-922-99-6 94-5 05-9696-3797-U 69-89 0-399-"  93 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-9s 9ri-96 96-9? 97-99
79-n 81          5   A   535   55   535s  565          - 56 35   53n   56   5s3    535   u5s  535   565   SIS    5   Si     535   5a
96-S1       66      -     68   663   68   MI   666   66    Am    668   m66   mg   66    m68   66e   me8  m6e   666   68   669
93-9      1,244    -      -   1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 3244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244
82-3      3,6       -     -      -   3,37 3,367 3,67 3,33  3,13  3,37 3,317 3,167 31,7 3,03? 3,67 3,637 3,hg  3,03? 3,637 3,37
3-4       3,31      -     -      -     -   3,331 3,331 3,331 3,331 3,J33  3,331 3,331 3,311 3,331 3,331 3,131 3,331 3,331 3,31t 3,331
64-e   JaIIS  -,               -              L. lif L_  l# LII! MH 3I I,I! U!5! UJI AII I! )I!! Mil IA!! .U !! I5!! 
7.1.l132,245
Cwslatiw            515  1173  241?  5        955 12265 1121  1225 12265 12265 12265 1226  12265 12215 32265 32265 12265 122U  12265
Naimles e Cot U/
aftur 34-65
Is utiltifel        -     -     -      -     -      -    3.6   6.39  3.3   6.8  3.68  6.39  6.39  1.           3.69  3.63  6.69  6.     I.
tttKi.i 8Ja
(alIt .3)
Ui w        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -
se-1   fawbS        -        -      -     -      -     -    12.9   -      -      -     -    IZ.2   -   -     -      -    11.6   -      -
9-1 Futw        -     -      -     -      -     -     -2.    -     -      -     -    32.    -      -      -     -     -3.    -     -
83-6   faIgd    -         -      -     -      -     -     -    23.9   -       -     -     -    22.7   -       -     -     -    21.6   -
Tidr        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -
263  fl"d    -           -      -     -      -     -     -      -    5?.?   -      -     -      -    54.9   -      -     -      -    52.1
tii.        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -
93-U  fu.l3u.       -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -    64._    -     -      -     -    66.9   -      -     -      -
Iii.        -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -     a      .      . .      .         .     .      .
64-eS  fulme        -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -    7.4   -      -      -     -    64. 
lidr        -                                      -     -     -      -     - -  -   -   -   -     -     -     -
(Is N11.i)l
Fhlus               -     -      -     -     -      4.1   5.2   9.9  23.7  26.2  31.4   5.6   9.3  22.5  24.9  29.9   4.7   8.6  21.4
Tie                 -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -                               >
OQ X z
tD X



tt 2l kilt!R  t  2 t ki2 !ciJ    lt.i k..?s  ~It     ! t!   k.?7   .  tt r3  Yr 33 Yr 32 c 33 It 34 Tr 35
n1-99 i9-I1 66-1 11-1?  2-63 63-64 14-65 3-36 16-07 17-2  9-69 09-: i         -13 -I -11-12 12-13 13-14
79-8m       535      5e5 56 5   s53 5     5 sn5      535   535   5n5  5s5   53    535   505  5s5   535   535  5s5
go-el   m8             s 668      me6me VA 8me 86696686m8668  U A 668 M  u 668                                        68
81-2      1,244   1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 1,244 3,244
82-83     3,637   3,667 3,337 3,167 3,137 3,117 3,6I7 3,667 3,617 3,667 3,137 3,17 3,667 3,667 3,137 3,637 3,637
83-84     3,131   3,331 3,331 3,      3,31 J,331 3,33 1 3,333 3,331 3,331 3,331 3,331 3  3,331  133  3,331 3,311 3,331 3,331
u-8      ..LIl   }A'J  !  s      A!     Uts !     Ut! Ut 35! U51t U)s! 1,51! J,AM! Ls!! 3,s!! 3,!! U,).! 3,l! lAM1!
fttal    12,268
Cualitime          1225 12265 12265122 122     22   122   12215 12  1522   12265 WM5 12265 1226S   12265 12265
Nals'&ance cmsi I/
after 3964-
(Is eilIlov         6.6   5.68  6.18   .3 8" 6.68  s.1 1 .1  8  3A  3.   6 8   3.38 3.1 8   n6    6.   68 6. 38      .38
tt1dst 
79-N   feelu         -      8. -3                           7.9
l-ber-   -                                                    -              4.3
83-91  tulmt d              -                                    t3.6   -- .4
Ti mber-------                                                   -              -  -  5.7
81-82  FulmWd                          2.5                               9.5   -     -      -
ie-------  - - - -- - -.7 
92-83  fmeluWd                                49.5                      -     47.0
limber-                          - -                 -            - --                         25.9 
W3-94  ftlwod    57.7                               54.9                            52.1
84-85  facieWd            M6.0                             57.9                      -    54.9   --
Niter         -3.2
F-rid !ip-.aLot31
(is mIlli.
F"uiem              23.6  28.3   4.5   8.4  21.3  22.5  26.9   4.3   0.t  19.3  21.4  22.5   -                 -
lier                 - -  -                      -     ----- S.2 6.9 12.8 3l.1 34.3 36.2
).Iailtoesae, cmii;fr Irm      u 98  to 1984-95 incSided esde pIantaijoa IstAblisbMe,t cesl, tkhereaftr emai,teemc  is assimw   to immelme Mo makthe
top eoer  25 h   t a     asci al waqe mU 3s3t   per P oath mc sIer meiK   aget mUp 3f3is  per eMoth (330 u 6.6).
t1 hiwd mm aswral yield of 24 "3b  simllar to reasd;,d, ercerrioqg asyears 6,&           3,I       n   6trdeue   at   Udcae   o   ibrbrdm
ameaqe~ied 6316.3ha,redcedbp  mralip m  63, *ea   a. effeCOW  field of 43 .3/h, cmv o  "I ll(elmood antd 212 timbe.
- ^ -^.  S "s. iio           taken at ISII/r  clowle  to  ^ "en7c Price of  *^,0  #igSUo 
lik (isascia      0t (ic f * Iflime d tale   st hIsO566i. cavete  t   cmcpreofI,26sig                   f3.6, for (slmeliod a uevqbeed average price is                                        -       
talesamimu.q ml ml ulmoo  36?  t 3;411.3An  got"~ M6  at usf56313, qiel   an oecnomc price of 1%436/m13 'Slog SCF or 6.8.                                                      0)t  
ootr a
MD X



&!si !!fi!~~~ -                  ead P!t-E!--oreduc !-! tmVi  m I-une.ac 1t'
!tLI Ir i  IL)         I    It A^  It    !dJ  Ir     ! !t1  l      -vr. 42 r, !   r Lt  1r !E _ r 16 _ r 17 _ r E _ r  9I!
79-l 4  -611 8142 82-93 93-04 04-85 956  9 L-97  7-99 9-99 99-9" 91-91 91-92 92-93 93-14  i- 95--i 9-97 97-98
79-99     1,415  4,471 1,475   4,475  1,475  1,47n     1,471 1,475 1,471 1,475  1,475 4,475 1 ,475 4,475 1,475 1,475   1,475 1,475 1,475
H-91      1,4U     -   1,43 1,43 1,43 1,483 1,493 1,403 1,43 1,493 1,483 1,463 1,433 4,43 4,493 1,493 1,4093 1,43 1,403 1,483
922       l,596    -     -   1,596  ,596 4,596 1,596 1,96 1596 4,596 2,596 195%6 1,596 1 ,596  1,596 2,596 1,5 I'9 b 1,5  1,96 1,596
02-03     4,541    -     -     -   1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 4,541 1,541
6I-04     2,99    -      -    -      -   1,938 1,938 1,938 1,939 1,939 1,939 1,93 1,930 1,932  ,939 1,939 1,930 1,930  ,9N3  1,939
80-80S      M     _ :      _  _         _-_ 2,%525tSS2s9 95           - 2S     S     M..9  ,59  2&59  hm5  2?5M    MnS2 2h59  Mr5% 2A9
fetal    46,68
CeMlitim          1471 23  4554" 6         033 10620   129UN029 1         6               46      wo 4168 1662  1l98 1321S 11629
NIialtum    cmii If
aIftr 4994-85
(is uilli r        -     -     -     -     -     -          B." 6.606         0.08  6.09I 0.09 6.8  0.09  0.69  1.19  6.69  0.69
!nlKltu V
li iOi ;3)
79-90  fwlVw -W    -     -                 -    77.4   -     -     -    -    73.5   -       -    -      -   69.8   -
fl-Il  fwud    -         -    -      -    -    -    77.9                             74.6   -    -      -    -   79.3   -    -
liiw        -     -     -     -    -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -     _           -                 _ -  - 
91-02  fwlueui    -                                     -   83.   -    -                   79.6   -     -    -      -    75.6
92-03  fwlesImi    -     -    -      -    -    -       -     -   409.9   -    -       -     -   76.9   -    -    -        -   73.6
liip        -     -    -      -     -    -      -    -      -     -    -      -      -    -      -    -    -       -     -
3-4  f1l".         -     -    -      -     -      -     -    -      -   90.9   -            _          96.7     
11.1w t  -        -    -      -    -      -     -     -     -     -    -       -     -    -      -     -    -      -    -
94-95  fl.,uuu     -     -     -     -    -    _                              136.2   -    -      -129.4   -              _ 
Els milli")
fol2s              -     -    -      -    -   31.7  31.9  34.4  45.6  33.2  96.1  30.3  32.6  31.5  9.   81.7  28.8  31.6  29.9
b  >
OQ     r 4
m   tn



9*-99 " -33 01-1 31-32 12-03 63-14 14-35 65-31 46-V  17-N  18-69 39-11 1I-11 11-12 12-13 13-14
79n0      3 1,45   1,45 1,45 5,45 1,475 1,415 1,475 1,475 1,4Th 1,475 1,475 1,4Th 1,475 1,45 1,475 1,45 1,475
91-l1     1,433   1,483 1,13 1,40  1,413 140  1,493 1,483 1,433 1,493 1,43 1,4131 1,43 1,43 1,413 1,413 1,43
1-12      1,596   I,m  1,596 39  I,     1,596 1,     1,596 1,596   1, 96 3,5lS   1,5   1,56  , Im   1,516 I,5   1,596
32-U      1,54    1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541 1,541
33-94     1,93   1,93 1,93 1,938 1,931 1,939 1,139 1,9 1,39 l , 1,938    I,931 1,913 1,933 1,9n  1,933 1,931 1,938
e4-lm  JA5j  Lt a LtI L52 . La I'M 2,4 LV5 t  AT5MLIK L24 LATh lATh iAh lT lAT
Total    11,61
biom1   ll,U  t
Couattio           1UD 91301302t130  16621162366IU1121 91iU 01 IU2013291   IIU91 IIH916621
offer 11914-10
(Is sillhol        6.-1   3.U   6.3  6.3  6.3   6.3  3.3   6.6   6.3  3.3  6.9  3.9  6.             .
flih
79-U   fulmd         -    6.4             -             63.1                                                     -
l   W        -                              - -  -     6 .9
t 4--------2.- - , - .o
-1-U  fwlbd             -             71.3      -                    68.2
Sir-                                                          -     -      -     -   21.   -       -      -
92-a3  f.b.          -                      60.3   -                       65.   -      -     --
114          -     -                        -     -     -     -                        -    21.t  -      -
6314  F1fw,ud    91.3   -7.2                                                -   32.9                             -
lb1          -     -     -      -     - 14-             -     -     -      -     -     -     -    26.6   -
4f-I   bhind         -   12.                           116.9 -    -                    M1    -      - .  .
hi_W                                                                                               -    35.?
Its sullin
Fwlu                37.  77J.  27.3  29.4  2.5  35.7  73.3  6.   29.6  27.0  14.0  45.5   -    -           -     -
Iwer                                            - -  -  -    -  -   -  -    -    t24.4  24.5  26.3  25.4  31.9  42.9
lj hNatiece csnts fIro I -"  to 1914-05 inclue  uadr pwistotm  ntablis  mt toss, thberater nalattci     is assuwi to lsuelu on uutier
fur owurl 25 ha at a tiutal uap of t336 pe  soot  or ,cstesc wg of IsIo  per wtlh 316 u 0.!61.
91 hood t awag   illd 1       6 f       er sort"  data, sucerritlo ib  eas 6, It, 16, 21 ad 26 Fo forelWod with 232 duw, for  itr based ea                                             ,.  
A"ra   pil  of St111  ", foilf etlcted, redued bS  515 for teslit   giulng an effective yield o 55 3/h, oil     75t fFellowd amd t   ter.                                             > 0  z
It finsacial price of tie  tabs at USt,51,Sl3 Ceouel  ts    rd 1slco   prce of IS,21t  msal StF of 6.3, fo tf   ised a wgtd stwrat ppice is                                       0m       s
*15 it *t  11As M1%          g  WA .ui   M _i USaUOIPA. uism ime    o en" _*- f stai4Itoi,s1 e          W  of 0.0                                                D I   t
0t J



LI IU ki  Y EA U  IEA Zl IL  2Ll !kl    L                                         lI L  ILb I  !, L          c I9
7      nHI-u 62I-3  342  -U 1       u-s 85 -   87-      -   69-0   90-91 91-92 92-93  3-94  4-   95-96 9-9  97-9
7940    733 73   MI 735  72  w  7   73S 72  nM  n  7 73 ns  ns                                             73   M  73  7M  S
U-t    04  -  54 P4 3 7474 674 67 44 64 64 6 874 7474 874 74   7074 04
al-u2     1,17     -     -   1,179 1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1 ,17  1,19 1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1,17  1,179 1,17
62-U      1,332    -     -      -   1,332 1,32 1 ,332 1,332 1,332 1,33? 1,332 1,32 1,332 1,332 1,332 1,332 1,332 1,32 1,332 1,332
*   -34   1,5S    -      -      -     -   1,55          1,5S  t55 9 I ,SS   1,550 1, 15    1.55,   1,50 1,55  1,551 1,550 1,553 1,551
11-5     ,3i3 -l -                                                 W71 U!7 LMZ I! I.A !          1*! I7!7 I&I h hL71  !! 1!
Cwlnatin          731  1,612 2,1" 4,123 5,673 1,343 7,343 7,343 7,343 7,34  7,34  7,343 7,343 7,343 7,343 7,34  7,343 7,343 7,343
faislaue cost U
aiim 196-
Its million        -     -     -     -      -     -    0.01  3.65  5.65  6.65  6.65  0.05  6.65  0.35  6.65  6.65  0.65  3.65  6.05
('3le )
79-6  fwlew        -     -     -      -     -     6.6      -     -         -     0.3   -     -    -      -    7.9   -       -     -
1id    -----   -  ---   -  -  -  -  ----   -  -  -
0n-1I  felma       -     -     -      -     -     -    16.4                -     -     9.9-                           9.4   -     -
Himb            ~                        -  -  -   -   -  -  -- -            --       -     -     -     -     -
61-62  fmIne       -     -     -      -     -     -     -    14.6   -      -     -     -    13.3   -     -      -     -    12.?   -
3idw        -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -    -      -      -     -
02-S3 fiwel        -     -     -      -    -      -     -  . -    15.   -        -     -     -    15.1   -      -     -     -    14.3
HimZ                --    -                                           -      -     -     -     -     - -         -     -
33-84  fubse       -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -      -    18.4   -     -     -     -    17.5   -      -     -     -
ter            -     -     -  -            -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -     -     -     -      -     -
94-S  f"wll    -            -     -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -    Iq.    -          -  -       18.    .       ._
lia         -     --  -       -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -     .  -      -     -     -        -      -     -
Is milliaus
fninsd                                            3.6   4.3   5.7  6.5   7.5  11.6   4.1   5.4   6.2  7.2   11.6  3.9    5.2  5.9                     >
M   rn



Ir?_ 2 r_21 Jr  ?21 !t_2 l    r       24    _2    27 lr 'Irt9 l 3               31l  34 t  35
9d-99 99401 10-11 1S--i *2i3 03-04 04-35 Or-4 16-7 67-10 00-09 it-if 13-it li1i1 12-13 13-14
79-0      2,111   2,818 2,111 2,811 2,313 2,318 2,918 2,818 2,318 2,818 2,310 2,018 2,818 2,818 2,818 2,818 2,811
0-81    CM9   2,494 2,04 2,494 2,04  2,494 2,49  2,4% 2,04  2,4% 2,49  2,4% 2,494 2,494 2,494 2,494 2,494
01-82     3,375   3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,37 , 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,3r, 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375 3,375
02-03     4,521   4,521 4,523 4,528 4,58 4,52  4,528 4,523 4,521 4,528 4,520 4,5!l 4,523 4,52  4,523 4,523 4,528
33-84     4,473   4,41 4,48 4,478 4,473 4,471 4,478 4,470 4,470 4,473 4,478 4,473 4,'70 4,473 4,478 4,473 4,478
04-85 5,LIR ! U,!  !  . U  U!i0 5, U,- U! U! U!|h 2A! Li"I U  SIA L!N
Total   22,73
Cutltiw           2273 22M3 227M3   3322  83 22732          27S3 2273 227M3 2      2783 22M  32273 2m    22M3
foihtm t cost LI
after 104-15 
(is mIlli.)       6.45  III  0.15  6.15  0.45  OdS  0.15  6.15  1.15  6..5  0.15  1.15  0.45  6.45  6.15  0.15
Voil 831
79-31'velwoud            4.4-         -               44.1 -       -    -    -       -    -      -     -    -
limber       -     -    -      -    -      -    -    -      -    -   24.2   -
05-01  fnlw            -       41.4    *         - _        3.0                      -
Timber                         -         -     -     -     -      -    -    21.5   -    -    -        -
81-82 felwo         -     -    -    55.4   -      -    -    -   52.8   -    -        -    -    -       -    -
lier         -     -    -      -    -      -    -    -      -    -      -     -   29.0   -      -    -
92-03  friwed       -    -    -       -   74.5   -      -    -    -   7n.    -    -        -    -    -       -
limber       -    -    -       -    -      -    -    -    -       -    -      -     -   38.   -    -
034  fow           77.   -    -       -    -   73.7   -    -        -    -   73.0   -      -    -      -    -
Timer        -     -    -      -    -    -       -    -    -    -    -        -     -    -    33.5
H4-05  fiswed       -    U.2   -      -    -      -    33.0  -    -    -    -   79.   -    -           -    -
Timber       -     -    -      -    -      -     -    -     -     -    -      -     -    -      -   43.8
Pr!|ff!X.ln31
(Is millios)
FuloW              31.3  5.2  14.3  22.1 3u.S  3.2 52.4  I44  21.4  29.6 28.7  32.4   -    -           -    -
limber             -    -      -     -    -      -    -    -    -         -  29 0  25.3  34.0  46.7  46.2  52.6
!if aime   costs frte  t958  to 19114-85 iKeld    ude  platation nthlliul ust se, thereaft  mattmauce is as,ene  to inoelve an wathew
for ewl 25Sla at a fiuKial wap of IsNI6 per mth w ectmoic NV  of 1s443 per moth  I06  0 1.54).                                                                        >
2/ laud so naweap feld of 24 3h  per swere dala, ecc l  is  ars tI,1 ,                     2 r    *s     d           ecero                                                z
*uW004 pield Of III sa f(iI, stoci1d, redKcd by 4t feu moltitip  liw       q as effeciw. yield of 43 3^h, i. of 811 fuuiwsod ad 211 timber.                     '    m
fimial price of tiule  tabo  at lsl,Sllo   h   concertld to economic price f  s1,211 20snq SU of 1.; for ftw*od a weihted aerage price is                           :    >4
s.a    _        0%% et i.% WA Wa as .......    a"4 Sam..  "105a, OI MI.1. Qi*i- a. ecmeMaC wice oSf ho4/4 .s.oa  SCF of $0.3.                                      <  _



U.JA. PRADE" SOCIKL FORUa6rEv PUJOC
rat iprma ti &4  ambIiulJ
9 tI       YLg  2   Vsr       Va       Is aar. a E cgt_4  l*e._?   Y.var.A   VA"r      Vill"           Isw   !uer.Z
A. Poo9.UcaLLiS (NO. )
l*.aI. ---                                  -       600      '.200    1.200        - -t-
Sthoots                 -         -         -         --                 -        220  t,000 106060
*. J.nOLs
$0.dlelnsa (No.)      4.000       -                   -                                      -                  -
tabour Iman-daVs)l
-  Land preparat See    200       -         -         -                                      -
-  Weintanance          -          to        is        t5        Is       IS         S        tS        ts       IS 
-  Cuttn n                   -              -           0       40        40         7        10        t0        J         10       tO
Suo-total       200        15        10       45        55 bt              22        25        2b        22        35       l0
A*qGo#u* from
bnile' cutting          -         -         -          M2.00   133.00   144.00   ^           -
oevenue from
cOppSc-                                                         -                   2_  .0 _2.4Ct    32.00    ::.00         22.00   22.0
Sub-totIl       -         -        -2.00   132.00   144.00    21.00    32.40    32.00    16.00                     27.00   21.0
0. at Jt3f.a Qt  RsOoO)
Ied tnog                0.40      -         -         -             -         -              -        -         -          -        -
l-rgattion              -         0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.80      0.80      0.10     0.t0      0.10       0.t0    0.10
ebour                   2.00     0.85      0.15      0.4      0.45      0.45      022       0.25     0.2N      0.22       0.25    0.20
Sub-total       2.40     0.25      0.25      0.55      0.55     0.58      0.32      0.35      0.35     0.32       0.2      0.35t
Wet Cish Flow (C-0)   12.40)   10.25M    10.2S)   71845   131.46   t43.45    21,'8    32.05    31.05    17.06             26 O5   25.65                     0%
IWtth Project)                                                                                                                                              0%
ttet Ct4a  Ploa
its nout ProJect)       t0.00     0.00    100.0 0    .00    0,00    80.00    60.00        0.00    50.00    30.00       80.00 
Incremental8
Seneftt                (t2.401  (80.25)  (10.25)   61.45   128.45   143.45    11.26    22.05           ?.64    16.        15.65   14.o5
Aau.gttonsa:
tt) SurvIVal rote of *otdltngs 60%. 42) 90t coPPICe twtco. (3) Prtce of trooe: &-yeer olt  9.00 por unit, 5-year did 9sl
per 4,nli and a-B-ar old Re2OM  per untt. 44) Price of *hoota RO30 oer untt Ot first  utllSng Ana 9525 per unit at eeco.a
cutting. (48 Price of s*e-olins RCO 0O par unit. 16) Wages OslO Per adp. (18 Without project. cultetlon of annual Crop. takee
poaco.
A
41  f,gures presented In this model reflect ectual practicoa for (eucalyptus) ilock plant tn  betng followed by fareera in
the project area. Farmera  prefor-nc- for *uch practices Is a*so COnfirmed bV the results of other I wortt8ans law.
tucalyptus for Planting. FAO. Rome. 8979).
cr z
0r
ID 



UITAR P05AO5S4 SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
at-r- feetrw  *u..nd Pl-ntina - ftn-netml Anal-Iua
LI Itt     tpd-l )I
baLi~~~M Val br...        aaL4   yAAz.    la" V..         r 7*L  Year    Vber       V*jiU        ar J1  baar.412
A. Production (No.)
Wrens Eeucalytus3        -so                                    so       so          -         - S  5
Shoots                   _         _         _         _         _         _        45        45       S4        4S         4S          S4
O. Inuts
Seedling* (tto.)        200
Labour (msn-davs ot
-  Land preperat ion      4
-  0Ma ntnne             -         t         I                   I         I         I              I         I         I                I
-  Cutting               -                                       2         3         I         I         I .                 I           |
Sub-total        4                  I                   3         4         2         2         Z'2                  2          2
C. C.l--JtgLj.Ma 480003
evenue from
litit cutting            -         -         -      4.50      5.S0       7.20        -         -        -         -          -          -
*evenue from
coappice                 -                             -         -         -        1.30      1.20      1.60      t.t0       1.10      1s0t
Sub-total       -         -         -       4.50      S.50       7.20      1.30      1.30      1.60      1.t0       1.10       1.30
0. fLssh 9uttjg  (PsOG0)
Seedt ISigs             0.02       -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -          -          _
t-bopur                 0.04      0.01      0.01    0.03      0.02       0.04      0.02      0 02      0.02      0 02       0 02       0.02
Sub-total      0.06      0.01      0.01    0.02      0.03       0.04      0.0      0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02       0.02
not Cash Flow (C-0)  40.061   t0.01)   (0.011 4 .47            5.4        7.6       1.211     1.2        .50    t.09       1.0t        1.28
&&&Woot on t
II) Survivol rate of *eeditngs  0%. 423 90% coppice twice. 423  Price of trues: 4-year old 0.90 per unit. S-yecr old ROlO
pa  unit and 6-yeer old U1-20 par unit. (43 Price of *hoots 0s30 per unit at first cutting and 1s2s per anit at second
cottIng. 4S) PrIce of seedtings IsO tO per unit, t6) Wgess GsOO per doy  t11  Cultivation foregone with the project Il
neg* giblo.
I/FIgures presented In thib   mod-l reflect actual prectices for 4,euc,lyptus) bund planting betig followed by farmers in
the project area. foreersa  preference for such practices is olso confirmed by the results of other lovostliationg  soee
Eucaltyptus for Planting-. #AO. Doe. 1979).
-Il
Io- J



0
x aJ
z la t
wi -. o
tie H
..__ -     __     ______=------___                                                     - - - * - - - - - -          r  -  _ _     .    _  .     r      r _:
aWrs   uwo    Wsit  Wsll  W,,Sl SU           am    astic  *S'wt srlsts  ut 6t'         U *1  'lZ  *4S  0   ssl't  Itull  slst  ti*l   PibSl-- sas-  ai-  a's-   til-  sos                              SuusiaM   3 ti
Ilt0  LSC'f   U1UI  SIa  E'lls aU    Wass   pn-  sglu   15,111  U'U  tl*U   d'ifn   wus 9f'5:    li'5   tS#   UlU   nsu    555    U1'S    U'S    W1S   all                                    SISU     3h1aOO3 7URIS 1
so's   so's   fSiS   It's   la's    o 's   so,1 5     fll   all      111 ttt   'sf  I5)   sllis, 1s0t  till   is's   1111  Sall  fell   15'S   sell    #1'1   so's    all                           Av"I15dI OP   A a
to'    sag    as'l    us;  seW   usi   8s's   assi   so's   us's   as's   as's    "l's   It'lls   '         W'    as's1   am's1  sau   ts's   ass,1    W1'  asos    so's   pm,1                     ""last 'si1"9Pa  5
la' SIs's   I111  so's   8561. 1 I'             51   so-11   II's   161   fill   9651   5616   ir,a    01s   flfl   W11 u 's5  6165    11'S   till   5155    it's   fill                        m lA.1 -el pp*Aar 61
see   Its    WS'1   55I    55I   la.'S    55-5   14-S    W11  so's   is's   tell   ai's   aso's   tilli lls'    am's   fillsesls   as's   fell   S1S    as's   "s's                                   A9'II Op!sliti Li
011  515 I   s's   as's   to's   :5'sI   U5's   lolS  loll   5551  Osl'S  IsB'S   loll   IS'S   615'                 3    's asIl    l      sls   as's   It's   as's   as's   loll            ar"11 -'luali eaflt"  St
gt e    ir. ,   ttsis   yi'z   9f'il  U's   SI'S   5851z  1551i  1*16   if'S    6Sfc   5551t  *191   "fl  U   'S   51's   11'f   I5sl    so's   ia's   as's   as's1   as's                  posts) 'owdet *tiis to
5*  If'a   SL't  t9'il   U-s's1      It'S   593Z  SL'It  5951  Is's!   59121  51Sft149    1211: 05t, S5'f   555             56S    561   W55    al'l   as'    usi        11o's ass i'          "t'InI    aptSk) Fs
it a's   it's   sac        sai so a1   ams    am'sr  sm's   as's   ws'    is's    ma's   ma's   sm    as's   sa's   so's   as's   as's   as's   sa1   as's   as s                         '      'tI' 69MOV41 el
Ia s's   si's's sil    as's    N's         5 so I5   $Ia   is's   as's   ass    as's    3'S   mm's   SSSI  Sw'    iS'S   **'*   as's   as's   wii    as's   iS'S                               SLIn         31U0033 of
z'm f'    K'S      K'         IW   I'   %'S  IZs' I        's I Z IS'S .  a'S    K'    If'S1   v'S  IS'S.   ?%S    irS    1916i   5555s so6so  it-Bs  15ff.    It'dt  assSir$U23'WII
se    si's   as's   se's   se'l   as's   mso's   fi's   Is's   as's   as's   sm's   Ia's   am's    WIra             l as'ls as's     Ii'II sassa   'ass   ar a 's55    11s   si't            SIll) 5wms%a         tl.i 95A
L.O IS's   Zf's    MIf'   IN'  I   'S  I   'S I K's    K'S1  z-caI ?S1   ?S'S    K 's     's  Iz.'    ZS's    'S1   Is'    ism's   se'9   it's   sels   as's    ms's   Is's               "'nx i#akSl#ui JOAO$ I
S;i    sitt        U s   i'    St'.   2ZU   2' U              U's   sl1   Si'l   U  U'S tis    til    til    ils             I     "'S   l         al'   so's   as's    WIs    am's             U"tl tUptPfe61
1a ~   us   955    9i's   VA's   n1  9's              ?I's   II' 11I'    If'  g's   I t's   It's    II' S's   It'$   91'S   IS's   asl  's u's    Ca    I's SSS     'S   el's   SI S           'wii#    asa.It papyhip v
sC16 *       I s us S s   l     I   u's   So'  SI'      'S I    a    u       s's     fa       s's11    s    a'S          a    ll   ls's   sm's    I's   fi ma'    is 's   se      as's            U as|d 8p;Sllte. C
as's   ma    as's   as's   asU's    i's .as'sI    as'    asl    as 's   as's   as's   Is's   aso's   as's   as's   u's   1'S    U's    s's   as's   as's   as's   mm's                           w!116ud apsijhm 
Im's   as I   as'    to's   as's0  is'sI   as'sI   as'sI   as's   ss'a   mo-I   as's   Is-a   ams-    s's   as's   as's   as's   ss's    ".s    as's    N'S    as's    w'                             1S95 2          I
I ;* e  a      12             65       It ml     iL ti    St         S       [I IS IS        5      at      a       I      '       9U G            5       I      I       I       a                     am
ujn4ad 10 aI459 3iIU0U33
t =   $ u2      U   tWJ   U  2  ll't  "'G   *t'9    U'6'1t      t   tLS 3SBOZ'        l'IVflOSt@  U Ul HSqusVl @ n                  *     @             zP^^                       tl 



- - -           II'I          ~         JNvfwu 1i3iu uiUIn
6'111         *6'611i-                     SES    2MIIA3 NIlOI 1331"85J
t';-         t0Yai                     S1J31NU 3I11JJ TW1r1  133hJU
z  04
ow  a Du 31N
131$3U NIDSUS SIVrW Hll u vial
8S-U1  8C'CL1  89'LS1  S9'Dl  UL-91  U'l12 U'U    Zl'U   0'Z9   U'UI  ff'f   U'U     ii S191 3111   tZ
IIW  61 RVLl  U I  e9ll1    *29         so 6W31?2  ZC.    sell   II-    WI'61  Etli.  18'I                    511d310 11 Zii I?
sel1   sell,  fill   IZIS   *1'fZ  11?     I   3t'96   1961   33'91  nl16s   WUCII  9t                     "Bo las) *UiUz?
S59       'U16    S'tS  IPL     Is. it   1t5tf   III    II'r    Ir#    1I'S    II-    P'S f' @s lot pP?iSp    6
II'    11'1    fi3l    We'   lo'1   8s'81   Sl'9l  SiCLl  99'Z1    93    Zl'61   II'L1                 "Iumamj '@  ptwjp It
3'? 1; *Z          '1    Z'tl   fi'l   loll   0ll    loll    loll    fell3       i',    lll                   18yi 3P!IPW Li
fil l    3loll      Ifil  1Y'9    Cli    U1'   91               W1t    Za's   119   LS'S                  Poujlos INl5)itJ1 i
IZ'9t  It'K   Wi't    8zti  e8'9   li'S          U      sell'   oS'S    i-    fill'S    5l5l.        AWII  .ewU          abrim  Si
6661   6ol6   lo6     l 6ol    15'Z   qViZ  tZ61   66U     S    9Z1    K6*Y?  93',2   U'S?         "S'p1SJ  JUwM   skitl  WI
lol    fell3    it's   loll    it3   3't!  Io'a  U               1 9'9   RU'S   ILl!       'S? 9,,U Ul',in 'MS11,13 C
18,21,  06, it  11"t?  itle  t191Z   IVR    is,1    I'll   lilt   loll   fll            Wel                alpt W1fi1113 ZZ
loll    WIl    31?'  loll    lo'l   sell'S    1S    fi'l    3'l   loll   loll   ll'l                        5sii   611  II
31    Is's e     's Z    s'S e S Z      zs'e    oss    3's    MSi         s's   eS's   rill             Sfl03 1 31sa     ISIOI 6
fill     l'ol    l'ol    l'ol   p'ol   ll'l    01C'      lA'l   iC'S    l'ol    fC'i    ll -          s2s  lwUlsou        )ISit a
Zc5'    zsI e      S zs  I1 zsI z       I     CI    "s   allS      II    el's   M6sS    CII zIs sluIatiu           "   IP@.J 8
silt    Sl'l   51'1    Sll S'             1'      1'      l0    51'$    Sl'l   SI'O    Sl'l              inlietwid rplspj L
9$               1                      911    91'S    9111   91',    911S   II,1   915 aI swd  asujj  peAap g
Sel'    st'I    Ul    go's    g1 o's             WeI  CAI    SC1         Sl'      el'l    S' etitind *PiSllvJ C
Bill'    o33    9o's   silt    '1    Do'l    M'1 s          l    B''s    uls   Bill    loll           -id  PvIUI,us abitllft 
.US'     WIeS  SIeS   a3l l              SI 8o'S    3l3l  063     W53    Si's   go's    We'              vSliItld ap1sIt2 t
lo'Sl sell   lS'l   fi II3    lo0ll              fil    Sl'l.   ill      fill   sell    lo'l                   1S03 31110193 1
S t         tt  Et      it      It      it       6?      92      5       9       S2      t2                     *1
.: :  :     :      :     : :        : p.r~=:s:~~a:                                               .-P



- 71 -               mm UW!!   Attachment I
SAMAR SINGH,                                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
JOINT SECRETARY.                          NATIONAL WASTELANDS DEVELOPMENT BOARD
"'a  (Tel:No.361712)                              MNIRY OF ENVIRONMENT & FORESTS
Pqryayag an Bhavan, B Block
it WiwI110003
C.l.O. Cempb         Iko**x
New DuIbI-I11M
Te a UW4_1o NWOB IN
6Xmm X "WASTELANDS"
NWDB:1-6/84-A-II                                                 21.3.1989
Subject:    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry (Cr 925-IN) Project
Completion Report.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Please refer to your letter dated 23rd January, 1989 on the
above-mentioned subject.
2.     We have gone through the revised draft of the project completion
report of the World Bank aided Phase-I of UP Social Forestry Project.
I find that the corrections suggested by us in the first draft of the
report vide our letter dated 22.6.1988 addressed to Dr. A.K. Banerjee,
Forest Specialist, World Bank, have not been incorporated in the revised
draft.  Suitable corrections in the final report may please be carried
out even now.
3.     We are generally in agreement with the content, evaluation and
conclusions  given  in  the  draft report.   Despite substantial  overall
financial and physical achievements, the project implementation during
Phase-I fell short in other aspects, such as transfer of management
of woodlots and other plantations to village communities and effective
arrangement for flow of benefits to them.   The progress in research,
training and extension also remained somewhat slow. The lessons learnt
during the implementation of Phase I were, however, taken into consi-
deration in the formulation of Phase-II of the project, now under
implementation since 1985-86.   As you are aware, all possible efforts
are being made to improve project implementation, specially in respect
of the social aspects, i.e. people's participation and benefit-sharing.
4.     Since copies of the revised draft report have also been sent
to the Secretary(Forests) and CCF(Social Forestry), U.P., I hope you
would have received comments  from their side also.   We look forward
to the final report from your side shortly.
ts'Ai 4_  : &Yours si cerely
(Samar S hh)
Mr. Graham Donaldson,
Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure & Human Resources Division,
Operations Evaluation Department,
The World Bank, 1818 HI Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433 (U.S.A)



- 72 -                        Attachment II
No. NUOD t 1-6/8eEAP(A. II)
Government dr India
National Wastelands Development Datr,
Ministry of Environment & Forests
CGO Complex, Paryavaran Bhavan
Now Delhi-110003
On ted st.2)-6.6.8fl
OFFICE ME[IORANDUM
Sub- t)raft Project Completion nloport of Uttar Prada*h
SociA  Forestry Project (C. 925-IN).
Plesse refer to your letter daterd 19.1.1987
rs6Aidrig '.-ft Project Completion Repott (PCR) of
Uttar Pradesh (Cr.No.925-IN). The Project Completion
Prbject(PCR) has been examined in consultation with
thp Chief Consenrvator of Forests, (Social Forestry).
Thl following correction nrs found nhcessary in tho
Project Completion Report.
Par ;and line                     Propoend Modifications
,o  ,daeft PCR.
Per,e 1,22              By the end of the Proj ct Social
line No.4               Forestry Wing had dietributed 1090
million seedling and not 134 million
seedling as mentioned therein,
Pars 2. 15              Reforenco to pars 1.23 has borr mede
wheresa  thore in no  tsuch pars in draft
PCR. In case it stands for pars 1.22,
then the percentage uw rarm rorestry
achievement. may be calcutoted in the
light of the correct figures Na
mnentioned above.
Pirt 4.04               The number of nursery established in
lIni No.6               project areas were 1166 and not 1066
aS mentioned In draft PCR,
Ann#,ure.I  '           This Annaxure needs revioion.  The
revised one wisth correct figures Is
enclosed.
... ..2/-.
RICO AG. DIV.
? 4 JiJ  1988



- 73 -
*Annexurs.3e            Actual expenditure during 1983-84 nosy bn
treated as Ib.101.26 million, in plocne
of 101.707 million mentloned in drrft
PCR.
Annexur..3b            this Table shous expenditure upto
Supt.1984 for the yoar 1984-85, which
Is incomplote. The revised table
showing expenditure upto Dec.1984
for the year 1984-AS is enclosed.
It is requoeted that 10 copies of the final Project
Completion Report may please be sent to this office.
2
(6 . Pdlaletst
Deputy Inspector General of Forests
Or.1 A.k.Banerjoe.
Forestry Specilist,
World Bonk$
5S,. Mkx-Mueller Masrg,
(Lodi Estate)o
-Ne De.lhiinllgOO3.



Attachment III
D.O.No.3(2)/89/FB-VIII.
RAJAN KATOCH,      Wl!r
DEPUTY SECRETARY(AC)
-~~~~~~~aO* D_ d B 
Guwermnit of bda Ubarut fks
-~~          Minis~tr" of Fnmic. (Via n Matrni
Deparinit of Zommi. Affat aiws &rld Kya vibbag
lfqft/3wlDwsI  tie 5th AprI,, 89.
Dear Mr. Donaldson,
Please refer to your letter dated
23rd January, 1989 seeking comment. oa the
Project Completion Report in respect of
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project (Cr.
No.925-IN). The Government of UP have
informed us that they broadly agree with
the Report. The National Wasteland Develop-
sent Board, Miaistry of Environment &
Forests have separately sent their comments
to you with their letter No.NWDB:1-6/84-A-II
dated 21st March, 1989. We have no further
somm ets on the Project Completiou RePort.
With regards,
Yours sincerely
CeRajf  Kato?
Mr. Grahea Donaldson,
Chief,
Agrioulture, Infrastructure &
Human Resources Division,
Operation Evaluation Department,
The World Bank,
Washigton D.C. 20433 (U.S.A.).



MAP SECTION



78-                                   80                                    82-                                     IBRD 1412Q1
HIMACHAL                   _.             *(         (
PRADESH                           ..               (,
'  0    UTTARKASHI                       /
''ti       (aL         *      ,rg   ,,(            \>L      <1
NER R\'  CRAMOL        l
HARYANA                   * ;    TEHRIGARWAL, *%
.0   4          K      >                      f    . PITHORAGARH                                                                  3
~30'    f      SAtARANPUR                               R \                                               PAURI  NriA
5   \  v      :           .  ~~~~ALMORA                                              NDiA
}                                         __* t    \    4 n  . 9  UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
MUZ^RNAffA R \* oOR  .?                *               /SOCIAL FORESTRY ORGANIZATION
.EEUT                                NAINITAL    r
4g    A... _jfit/ \                             )       t       S   / *District Headquorters   -- Distric: Boundaries
r    -       Z    *..-\                                 . i                   A   Divisional Heodquarters  -- State Boundaries
[r   Regional Headquarters  --      International Boundaries
*                   I AORAM AtA#..
_I  State Headquarters              Forest Region Boundories
1*~~~~  .1               ILIBHiT ~~~~~~~~Project Area                             Linkage of two or more
* WZASDSH \,  8AP,4    2,}   *LzBHn >.,r,                                 Project Area            |          districts to moake one orest
sutAw                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~division.
28 ..-\                                  StiAtfJAJ.IANPtAf/ LKHIMPURKHERI                                                              28--
MtW  ALIGlARH      .tTA)4+                                   .........    
~~~MAt$URA\ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    $KRW
Z~~~- 9                                                       4                 * -     .     WAC - - .Y--j. \  
SITAPUR
)   ~ >       MAGRA           MAtNPUJR 11AROt
<  t---I.4g47;0s-% 5tg   ta   t>GO
7 MADHYA PRADESH                                >                  A'>UrNAt ..........  '  ;
-26                              ./,                                                                 -                                 t
) HA.'MPUR   .g..            ~      AJAPGA*4 z ,.NAMA ftZ
MADHY Ai PRAES                                                                                                      >
-261                                                                                  Sug~~4/ A~~AA    &VANSI i
:LAUiTPUR i.J   iNSA .JA t(                                                                              BIHAR
9    )                                                             <       MIRZAPURAM RPU
@"\_    >            0   ~~~20   40   80    80   too                t    
KItLOMETEltS                             i            )
-         t       f d  L. . mI 0                         AA
-24                                             .    D8t4*, _f*Zo*_'                                                ' \24'
tS lbflubb 0IeEitt< Z0Fef 0 .h                                            \I  
78*                          8~~~~~~~~~0      0       12
FEBRUARY 1989



