Document of               FILE  
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2562-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
May 23, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of May 15, 1979)
Rs 1.00       =   Paise 100
US$1.00       =   Rs 8.251147
Rs 1.00       =   US$0.1212
Rs 1 million      US$121,200
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at US$1
to Rs 8.60, which represents the projected exchange rate over
the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
GOI   -   Government of India
GOUP  -   Government of Uttar Pradesh
SFD   -   Social Forestry Directorate
U.P.  -   State of Uttar Pradesh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiaries:         The State of Uttar Pradesh (U.P.)
Amount:                US$23 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
Relending Terms:       As part of Central assistance to States for develop-
ment projects, on terms and conditions applicable at
the time. GOI would carry the exchange risk.
Project Description:  The proposed project would expand and intensify the
social forestry program in Uttar Pradesh. The program
aims at large-scale tree plantation along roads, rails
and canals, on village common lands unsuitable for
cropping, and on degraded forest reserves in need of
rehabilitation. The trees would provide a much-needed
source of energy to the villages, raw materials to
cottage industries, and greater stability to the
environment. The ultimate objective would be to have
the villagers establish as soon as possible their own
village forests, using voluntary labor, with the assist-
ance of state-wide forest extension services, for dis-
tribution of fuelwood and other products to village
communities.  About 48,600 ha of public and village
lands would be planted under the project, 45,600 ha of
which would be carried out by the Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry Directorate with varying degrees of community
participation. The Directorate would be expanded and
strengthened by providing additional staff, low-cost
housing, equipment, vehicles and facilities for training,
research and nurseries. Major project risks include the
possibility of insufficient community participation in
tree plantations, inadequate community contribution to
protection of tree plantations, and inequitable share of
project benefits to the poorer villagers. Safeguards
built into the project are expected to minimize these
risks. Other risks inherent in this project are no
greater than can be expected of an innovative project
of this type.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ millions)
Local    Foreign /a Total
Staffing, Vehicles, Equip-
ment, Housing and
Operating Expenses           16.3       0.1      16.4
Training and Fellowships        1.0       0.1        1.1
Research and Seed Testing       0.3        -         0.3
Nurseries                       4.2        -         4.2
Plantings                       7.8        -         7.8
Protection of Plantings         9.4        -         9.4
Sub-Total                  39.0      0.2       39.2
Price Contingency               5.9        -         5.9
Physical Contingency            1.4        -         1.4
Total                      46.3      0.2       46.5
Duties and Taxes                1.7        -         1.7
Project Cost Net of
Duties and Taxes             44.6       0.2      44.8
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ millions)
Local    Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                     22.8       0.2      23.0
GOUP                           21.8        -        21.8
Total                       44.6      0.2       44.8
Estimated
Disbursement:                                         (US$ millions)
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual           0.5    2.2    3.7    4.8    5.3    6.5
Cumulative       0.5    2.7    6.4   11.2   16.5   23.0
Rate of Return:        About 13%.
Appraisal Report:      No. 2386-IN, dated May 23,1979.
/a   Includes estimated cost of direct imports only.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE UTTAR PRADESH
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to India for the equivalent of US$23 million on standard terms, to
help finance a social forestry program in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The
project would initiate large-scale tree plantations close to the villages
in order to provide a much-needed source of energy to the villagers, raw
materials to cottage industries, and greater stability to the environment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as
a drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total,
but also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.
Growth in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and
1975, but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can
be expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Second Rural Electrification
Corporation Project (Report No. P-2533-IN) dated May 9, 1979.



-2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly -- 5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during



- 3 -
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nuLrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78.  This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption iF now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. These rates of growth in agricultural inputs
and output are heartening evidence that the good harvests of 1975/76 and
1977/78 were not isolated peaks resulting from good weather alone but
represent an increased agricultural production capacity.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
i higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
- ctric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
.,1 petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
i:ries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% or more but continuing shortages
in many States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
n i-977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
d 3% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (witb 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to ur.favorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somaewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the sa-.e an in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
n-ed policy improvements.  The faster growth of the recent past has been made
.r;-^ible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
*_ ,-.-t    workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cL.cural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.



- 4 -
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant under-
employment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the poorest
sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of some of
the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the Plan
recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
highly effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will
raise yields as it takes hold progressively across India in the near future.
Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain production: one
is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties of rice;
another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the traditional
wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends along with the
other favorable developments have caused rice production to rise impressively
in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain production is the



- 5 -
rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditionally rice areas (West
Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of 6;rong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of the exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues. Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods.  There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures such as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support.  A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
more industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.



16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries.  India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports.  But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volume terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current low level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly



45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless
families and families owing less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for the landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 56 loans and 113 development
credits to India totalling US$2,281 million and US$6,747 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$975 million had been
repaid, and US$2,806 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1979,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of April 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments have also
received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-
farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to



- 8 -
projects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewer-
age, and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the econony have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,331 million, of which
US$657 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$674 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA AND UTTAR PRADESH (U.P.)
Forestry in India
26.       India's forest lands are substantial; about 23% of the total land
area, or 75 million hectares, is classified as forest. Yet, the forestry



- 9 -
and logging sector contributes only about 1.5% to the net domestic product.
Domestic rounlwood requirements by the ysar 2000 are projected to be nearly 3
290 million m :  fuelwood  225 million m ; industrial hardwood, 52 million m
and conifer, 13 million m . Continuation of existing plantation programs
should ensure the supply of industrial hardwood, but fuelwood and coniferous
roundwood would continue to be in short supply. Programs of plantations and
investments need to be substantially stepped up if these shortages are to be
met.
27.       India's strategy for forestry development reflects the need, first,
to develop production forestry programs to supply the growing need of the
wood products industry and, second, to develop social forestry programs to
supply fuelwood, fodder, small timber and minor forest produce to the rural
population. In order to carry out the required programs, the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture (1976) recommended that each State should reorganize its
Forest Department by converting the existing department into a Production
Department and by creating a new Social Forestry Department.
The State of U.P.
28.       With a population of nearly 100 million, U.P. is the most populous
State in India. It accounts for 17% of India's population, while its area
(294,000 sq. km.) covers only 9% of the country. Nearly 86% of the popula-
tion is rural (as against 78% for all-India). There are 112,000 villages
with an average population of 700. By almost all economic indicators, Uttar
Pradesh is one of the least developed states in India. A Bank study on "Rural
Poverty and Agricultural Growth in India" estimates that Uttar Pradesh's
population living below the poverty line (annual income of about US$65) has
remained around 50% since the late 1950s. This, of course, means a growing
absolute number.
29.       Forests cover 17% of the total area in Uttar Pradesh; the per
capita forest area is only 0.05 ha, compared with 0.14 ha for the whole of
India which itself is well below the world average of 1.04 ha. In 1977/78,
the forestry sector contributed some 4% of State revenue and accounted for
about 2% of the State's net product. These figures, however, take no account
of the very considerable quantities of fuelwood, small timber, fodder, thatch-
ing, grass, fruits and medicinal herbs that are taken by villagers. Most
forests are located in the hills, whereas over 80% of the population is in
tne Gangetic Plains.
30.       In addition to sawn timber, the forests in Uttar Pradesh support
large-scale industries like pulp and paper, veneer and plywood, and turpen-
tine and resin industries. They also support a large number of small-scale
and cottage industries such as matches, paper, carpentry, baskets and oil
extraction. There is no doubt that the demand for forest products far ex-
ceeds supply.3 For example, industrial wood supplies are presently about
one million m per annum whereas demand is estimated to be nearly four times
this amount. Many forest-based cottage industries have suffered due to raw
material shortages. However, the critical gap remains in fuelwoods for3
domestic consumption. While present consumptisn is around 18 million m 3
the requirements are estimated at 42 million m per annum in 1978 and are
projected to rise to 63 million m by the year 2000.



- 10 -
31.       Rural households meet their energy requirements almost exclusively
(95%) from non-commercial fuels. In the plains, they use firewood (36% of
their energy needs), vegetable and crop wastes (32%) and dung cake (27%).
Commercial fuels are used mostly for lighting (kerosene 3.5% and electricity
0.5%) and charcoal represents a negligible share (1%). Fuelwood remains the
most preferred source of rural energy but its growing scarcity in a large
area has obliged the villagers to burn cattle and buffalo dung which would
otherwise be profitably utilized as farm manure.
Social Forestry
32.       The main objective of existing social forestry programs is to pro-
vide forest products in rural areas where they are most needed. This objec-
tive is achieved by establishing multi-purpose tree plantations to supply
fuel and small timber and to provide food, fodder, shade and the environ-
mental stability that is necessary for continued food production. These
plantations also generate income and employment, both directly, by providing
jobs in planting, harvesting, and marketing, and indirectly, by providing
raw materials for cottage industries. The plantations are established on
presently unproductive or unused land, for example, by strip planting along
road, canal and rail sides and by block planting on village commonland,
wastelands and degraded forests.
Forest Institutions
33.       The Forest Department is responsible for the management of State
forests. Its administrative head is the Chief Conservator of Forests. He
is assisted by four Additional Chief Conservators, each of whom is responsible
for several forest circles. There are fifteen forest circles, each headed by
a Conservator of Forests, some of which are functional circles (e.g. research
and development, working plans, soil conservation) and some of which are geo-
graphical. There are two additional officers of Conservator rank - the Director
of National Parks and the Director of Social Forestry. All forest circles are
divided into 3 to 7 divisions, under the control of a Deputy Conservator; sub-
divisions are controlled by Assistant Conservators. The Department has a
competent technical staff of 256 professional officers (Assistant Conservators
and above), 2,031 technical staff (Forest Rangers and Foresters) and 4,309
junior staff (Forest Guards and equivalent personnel). Professional officers
and rangers are recruited from among science graduates and receive a two-year
forestry course at the national training centers in Dehra Dun, Uttar Pradesh,
or Barnihat, Meghalaya State. Other staff are trained at seven other centers
within the State. In 1974, the State established a Forest Corporation to
improve logging practice and supply timber and fuelwood to consumers at reduced
cost. It employs 700 persons.
34.       The existing Social Forestry Directorate, established in 1976 under
an officer of Conservator rank, comprises four divisions covering ten adminis-
trative districts. Its present staffing includes a Director, 4 Divisional
Directors, 21 Rangers, 83 Deputy Rangers, 104 Foresters and 129 forest exten-
sion workers. Shortage of funds and technical staff have kept the program very
small. So far, the four existing divisions have established about 300 ha of
strip planting and 700 ha of block planting.



- 11 -
Bank Group Assistance to the Indian Forestry
35.       The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit
609-IN of February 1976) is the only project financed by the Bank Group in
the Indian forestry sector. The main objectives of the project include fea-
sibility studies for major forest-based industries in Bastar District of the
State of Madhya Pradesh, and research on appropriate plantation species and
methods and on logging operation. The feasibility studies are expected to
be completed on schedule and the final reports are expected before the end
of 1979. Other research activities are also progressing satisfactorily.
Recently, a second Social Forestry Project (in Gujarat) has been appraised
which is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors in Fiscal
Year 1980.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was prepared by the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
with assistance from FAO/CP. It was appraised in October/November 1978, and
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in April/May 1979. The Indian
negotiators included Mr. B.P. Srivastava, Inspector General of Forests, GOI;
Mr. J.K. Sibal, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI; Mr. N.P. Tripathi,
Secretary of Forests, Uttar Pradesh; and Mr. K.M. Tiwari, Director, Social
Forestry Directorate, Uttar Pradesh. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2386a-IN,
dated May 23, 1979) is being distributed separately. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
37.       The proposed project would expand and intensify the social forestry
program in the Gangetic Plains of Uttar Pradesh (70% of the State area) where
the density of human population is very high at 350 person/sq.km. and forest
cover is very low at 2% of the land. The program aims at establishing and
maintaining tree plantations along roads, rails and canals, on village common
lands unsuitable for cropping, on farmer-owned lands and on forest reserves
in need of rehabilitation. The trees would provide a much-needed source of
energy to the villagers, raw materials to cottage industries, and greater
stability to the environment. The plantation program under the proposed
project would be labor-intensive and would be carried out primarily by dr-
viding paid employment to the poorest sections 1/ of the rural population.
The five-year project would comprise the following:
(a) Expansion and strengthening of the Social Forestry Directorate,
through the provision of additional staff, low-cost housing,
equipment, transportation, and training facilities;
1/   As far as possible, employment would be restricted to the poorest vil-
lagers called Antyodaya as identified by Government of Uttar Pradesh for
its rural development program.



- 12 -
(b) Forest plantations on 48,600 ha - including about 45,600 ha
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands,
and on degraded forests to be planted by the Social
Forestry Directorate with varying degrees of community
involvement, and a minimum of 3,000 ha of village forests
to be planted in village common lands under community self-
help programs. In addition, about 8 million seedlings and
extension services would be provided for planting on
privately-owned lands;
(c) Construction of 90 new nurseries and rehabilitation of
50 existing ones;
(d) Protection of social forest plantations; and
(e) Research, seed testing and storage, and field
demonstrations.
38.       Plantations.  The bulk of project plantings would be undertaken by
the Social Forestry Directorate in close collaboration with the local com-
munities. The aim would be to establish strip and block plantings on about
45,500 ha of land with the consent and for the benefit of neighboring vil-
lagers; 15% along major roads of the State, 9% along railway lines, 35% along
canals, 11% on village common lands and 30% in degraded forest reserves.
Species to be planted would be selected in consultation with the local popu-
lation. Although the main focus would be on the provision of fuelwood and
fodder, other species would be included to meet a variety of other local
requirements, including fruit trees, trees producing small timber and oilseed,
trees for raising silkworms, and trees producing other raw materials for
cottage industries. Palatable grasses (for stall-feeding) would be grown
within young plantations to compensate villagers for the loss of grazing until
abundant fodder became available from tree foliage. Finally, mulberry and
arjun trees would be planted on about 1,500 ha to develop sericulture for the
benefit of the poorest (Antyadoya) families. One hectare of mulberry trees or
two hectares of arjun trees would provide full-time employment to a family
of three working members.
39.       The ultimate objective of the social forestry program is to have
the villagers establish their own village forests using voluntary labor with
technical assistance from the state-wide forest extension services. Therefore,
the project would initiate pilot schemes of community self-help forests in
at least 3,000 ha in about 1,500 villages. In such schemes the role of the
Social Forestry Directorate would be limited to provision of extension ser-
vices and fencing materials. Villagers would provide free labor.
40.       In addition to the community self-help forest plantations on common-
lands, encouragement would be provided to promote tree plantings in private
lands. The Social Forestry Directorate would provide seedlings to individuals
at nominal cost and would provide extension services including carrying out
tree planting demonstrations close to their fields and homesteads. The



- 13 -
project costs include provision to produce 8 million seedlings which would be
sufficient to plant trees on at least 4,000 ha of private land.
41.       Plantation Protection.  The livestock population (mainly cattle
and buffalo  :L~d, to a lesser extent, goats) within the project area is very
high at 150/sq km. Protection of plantations against browsing, trampling and
breakage is essential for village forestry to be successful. Three types of
protection would be used, depending on the area and the nature of the expected
problem; live hedges would be used in areas of low stock pressure, and trenches
or fences would be used in high-pressure areas. Most fenced areas would be
patrolled by watchmen, each of whom would be responsible for about 10 km of
strip-plantings. Overall protection costs are high, especially for long
narrow strip-plantings. It is expected that the direct involvement of rural
communities in social forestry would progressively diminish the costs. A
similar strategy is being employed in Gujarat with considerable success.
42.       Nurseries.  The project would establish about 90 new nurseries and
rehabil-itate about 50 existing ones. This would provide for one nursery in
each territorial range under the Social Forestry Directorate (see paragraph 46).
Temporary nurseries would also be established in several locations close to
the plantation sites or for distribution of seedlings to the villagers.
43.       Research.  The project would strengthen social forestry research,
mainly by improving seed testing and field research facilities. The program
would be directed by an Assistant Director of Research under the supervision
of the Conservator of Research. The existing seed testing unit in Kanpur
would be expanded and equipped, and two new but less sophisticated seed
testing facilities would be established. Three research stations would be
expanded and a new one would be established. Uttar Pradesh would prepare
and furnish to IDA a satisfactory research program by December 31, 1979
(Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
44.       Communications and Publicity at Village Level.  Project success,
and the longer-term goal of inducing villagers to establish their own forests,
would mainly depend upon the understanding and participation of the rural
population. Therefore, five Communications Units would be created, one in
each forestry region. In addition to educating villagers on the benefits of
afforestation and dangers of deforestation, the Units would also propagate
methods of conservation such as improved wood-burning stoves that can double
the efficiency of traditional methods. The project would provide funds for
vehicles, audio visual equipment, construction of stoves and operating costs.
At least three such Units would be established by April 1, 1980 (Sections
2.12(c) of the Project Agreement).
45.       Training.  A large number of staff would need to be recruited and
trained to staff the strengthened Social Forestry Directorate (see paragraph
46). Most of the training needs would be met by the existing national- and
State-level institutions, but two new schools would be established to meet the
training needs of Forest Extension Workers. Since a number of new foresters'
posts would be filled by agricultural graduates, a six-month pre-service
course on forestry would be provided to them. A number of foresters in the



- 14 -
Department would require additional training in extension and community rela-
tions. Conventional curricula would, therefore, be revised to meet these
needs. The project would also provide twelve short-term and two two-year
fellowships, to middle and senior staff of the Social Forestry Department,
for training in other States or overseas.
Project Implementation
46.       Responsibility for project implementation would be with the Uttar
Pradesh Social Forestry Directorate, which would work with increasing parti-
cipation of the village communities. The existing Social Forestry Directorate
(SFD) is under an officer of Conservator rank, who is responsible to an
Additional Chief Conservator of the Forest Department. Under the project, SFD
would be reorganized and strengthened and would become a separate wing of the
Forest Department directly under the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF). The
SFD Director would be upgraded to Additional CCF rank. At full development,
SFD would comprise five regions under Regional Directors (Conservators) and
twenty-eight field divisions under Divisional Directors (Deputy Conservators).
Each division would comprise five territorial ranges headed by a Ranger who
would supervise an average of four units: one, with a deputy ranger in
charge, would be responsible for the nurseries; three, under Community Devel-
opment Foresters, each assisted by two Forest Extension Workers, would be
responsible for maintaining permanent liaison with the participating villages
and individuals, and for physically implementing the program.
47.       Provision would be made in the project for incremental staff cost,
vehicles, equipment, and housing. Uttar Pradesh would ensure that field
staff, including forest extension workers and community development foresters,
would live in or near areas assigned for their operation, and for this purpose,
it would provide low-cost housing or rent allowances as necessary (Section
2.13 of the Project Agreement). The use of rented accommodations would be
encouraged wherever possible. However, in U.P. housing is limited. Therefore,
the project would provide construction of new low-cost housing for 40% of the
project staff. This would provide housing for about three-quarters of the
lower paid staff. Funds have also been included for office rents, office
furniture and equipment. Because project plantings would be scattered over
a very large area, adequate transport for field, monitoring and communication
staff would be essential. Staff cars and jeeps would thus be provided for
staff whose responsibility encompasses at least a whole division--i.e., an
area of at least 50 km radius. Motorcycles would be provided for staff
(Rangers) whose area of responsibility covers an area of between 25 km and
50 km radius; bicycles would be provided to the Foresters and Forest Extension
Workers.  Efforts would be made to encourage the staff to purchase their own
motorcycles and bicycles on credit. Credit terms and travel allowances would
be set up so as to provide incentive for purchase and utilization of motor-
cycles and bicycles by field staff (Section 2.14 of the Project Agreement).
48.       Decisions regarding selection of lands and species to be planted,
organization of planting works and distribution of the project benefits would
be jointly made by the Social Forestry Directorate (SFD) and the villagers
concerned. The Community Development Foresters of SFD, who would receive
special training in community development skills and community relations,



- 15 -
would be the main liaison between SFD and the villagers. Each Community
Development Forester would be assisted by Forest Extension Workers. A Village
Forest Committee would be set up by each participating village, most likely
under the chairmanship of the village leader (Pradhan), through a resolution
of the Village Panchayat, which is a locally elected body in most Indian
villages. The Forest Extension Worker would normally attend the committee
meetings. Each village would sign a contract with SFD. The formulation of a
pro forma contract, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
The contract would provide for various degrees of involvement by the partici-
pating villages, in planning and management of the plantation, and in meeting
the direct planting costs by free supply of labor. The costs of inputs and
paid labor would be contributed by SFD and would be recovered in kind from
the village plantings at the time of harvest (para 52). Thus, the greater the
villagers' contribution, the greater would be the returns to the villagers.
For example, in the case of self-help schemes the return to the Government
would be nominal (only the cost of seedlings) and almost the entire produce
would accrue to the village. Initially, the SFD would be solely responsible
for managing the plantation. However, the contract would provide for transfer
of management to the panchayats as and when villagers have demonstrated their
ability and willingness to manage the forests by themselves.
49.       Coordination of social forestry activities with other programs of
the Government would be achieved through State- and District-level committees.
A State Policy Review Committee would be established, under the chairmanship
of the Minister for Forests, to make overall policy decisions and to ensure
coordination between various Government Departments. A Project Implementa-
tion Committee would be set up, under the chairmanship of the Uttar Pradesh
Secretary of Forests, to coordinate the activities of various agencies con-
cerned with the project. Finally, a District Level Committee would be set up,
under the District Collector (who is the Chief Administrative Officer at the
District level), to coordinate interdepartmental activities at each District
level. Uttar Pradesh would establish these Committees no later than December
31, 1979 (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
50.       A project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established in
the Social Forestry Directorate. Its staff would include a sociologist expe-
rienced in extension work, an economist, a team of surveyors, statisticians,
and data processors. The project would be kept constantly monitored by means
of field visits, sample surveys and ad hoc studies, so that any adjustment in
this innovative project could be made promptly. At the end of three years,
an evaluation team would be added to carry out the interim evaluation of the
project. The Monitoring Unit would be established by April 1, 1980, and its
work program would be submitted to IDA for review by June 30, 1980 (Section
2.12(a) and (b) of the Project Agreement).
Marketing Arrangements
51.       The forest produce would be shared between the villagers and SFD
under arrangements specified in the contracts between the Directorate and the



- 16 -
Village Forest Committee (see paragraph 48). The arrangements would vary
from place to place to accommodate preferences of the villagers and to try
out different arrangements during initial phase. As an illustration, a pro-
posed sharing arrangement would be as following:
(i) Fodder, edible flowers and some fruits (from village
common lands) would be collected by the villagers free
of charge, and supervised by the Village Forest Committees
under the guidance of SFD.
(ii) Harvesting of fuelwood would be undertaken by the villagers,
organized and supervised by the Village Forest Committees
under SFD guidance. All villagers would be entitled to a
supply of fuelwood, free of charge or at a nominal cost,
which would be based on a fixed number of headloads per
household.
(iii) Timber would be sold through the U.P. Forest Development
Corporation, and other forest produce would be auctioned
by SFD as is currently done. The net income, after deduct-
ing the costs incurred by SFD, would be credited to a forest
fund, to be used for projects of local public utility or
for the development of the Panchayat forests.
Cost Recovery
52.       GOUP intends to recover the entire costs of its social forestry
program, including SFD's investment and operating costs, over 30 years without
interest. However, in view of the fact that the proposed project would aim
primarily at meeting basic needs (fuelwood and cattle feed), that the majority
of the beneficiaries could not afford to pay for these goods, and that the
project is designed to motivate the rural people to participate in tree-
planting schemes, this intention may be too ambitious. Therefore, the
Association would only require that GOUP recover the labor and materials costs
(Section 2.11(b) of the Project Agreement). In order to ensure this cost
recovery, the SFD Planning Branch would prepare an operational and financial
plan for each village plantation which would be embodied in the contract
between SFD and the villages (see paragraph 48). GOUP would submit to the
Association, by March 31, 1980, operational and financial plans for ten rep-
resentative village plantations (Section 2.11(a) of the Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost, over five years, is estimated at US$46.5
million, including duties and taxes of about US$1.7 million. Foreign exchange
cost for direct imports is only US$0.2 million. The proposed credit of US$23
million would finance about 51% of the total cost excluding duties and taxes.
The balance of the project cost would be borne by the Government of Uttar
Pradesh (GOUP). IDA funds would be channelled through GOI to GOUP on standard
terms and arrangements for financing of State development projects. GOI would
carry the exchange risk.



- 17 -
54.       In order to ensure an early start of the project, retroactive financ-
ing up to US$500,000 would be provided to cover expenditures from January 1,
1979 to the date of credit signing for: (i) nurseries to provide planting
stock, soil work and protection investments; (ii) training costs for additional
project staff; and (iii) tractors and vehicles to carry out field operations.
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       Direct plantation works (US$21.4 million), including nursery expen-
ditures, planting and protection works, would be done manually, would be
scattered over a wide area (in total, 140 nurseries and 10,000 planting sites),
and would be carried out over five years. Furthermore, planting works would
be done as much as possible with community participation. Therefore, competi-
tive bidding for contracts would not be practical. Nursery works would be
carried out by the Forest Department. Land preparation, planting, maintenance
and housing construction would also be carried out by the Forest Department
with varying degrees of participation from the local communities. However,
required material such as barbed wire, tools and fertilizers would be procured
under local competitive bidding. Civil works (US$2.4 million) for construc-
tion of about 1,400 houses, 140 nursery sheds, two training schools, and one
research building would be small and also dispersed in time and place.
Contracts for most of the works would be let following competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory
to IDA. However, experience has shown that remote area works may not always
attract suitable bid. Therefore, some works, not in excess of 30% of the
total, may be carried out by force account. Field vehicles (US$1.95 million)
would be purchased in small quantities over three years and would be widely
dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance and availability of spare
parts would be of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of
locally made vehicles of types already used by Government departments.
Procurement would be by local competitive bidding under existing government
procedures. Miscellaneous equipment (US$0.35 million) would be bulked when-
ever possible and procured through local competitive bidding. The balance of
project costs (US$20.4 million) would be mostly staff salaries and related
expenditures (US$11.1 million), training (US$1.1 million), land cost (US$0.9
million) and contingencies (US$7.3 million).
56.       Disbursements under the Credit would cover:
(a) 100% of the cost of training;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment;
(c) 70% of locally procured vehicles and equipment;
(d) 50% of expenditures for civil works;
(e) 50% of expenditures for staff salaries; and
(f) 50% of direct planting expenditures.



- 18 -
57.       Disbursements for force account works, salaries, local training,
contracts costing Rs 50,000 or less for equipment and vehicles, and other
contracts costing less than Rs 100,000 would be made against certificates of
expenditure submitted by the Director of the Social Forestry Directorate.
Documents for these items would be retained by the Social Forestry Directorate
and reviewed by IDA during supervision missions. Full documentation would be
required for all other disbursements. Certificates of expenditures would be
audited at least once every six months and reports submitted to IDA promptly
thereafter. For administrative simplicity, staff salaries would be disbursed
at 50% of total staff salaries which is equivalent to 55% of the incremental
salaries.
Project Benefits and Risks
58.       The proposed project would help to lay a sound basis for development
of social forestry in the State. This would bring forests close to where they
are most needed, thereby providing an important source of rural energy to the
villagers, fodder for livestock, and raw materials to cottage industries.
Forest institutions would be strengthened and the village communities would
be involved.
59.       The direct benefits of the project would include:  provision of
at least 20% increase in the fuelwood supplies to six million people, at full
project development, close to their villages; greater abundance of fodder
resulting in additional 4 million liters of milk production annually; gen-
eration of a total of 19.3 million man-days of employment (mainly to the
poorest villagers); provision of raw materials for cottage industries and
creation of additional employment opportunities; release of organic wastes
(presently used as fuel) for agriculture; and soil erosion control and other
environmental benefits. Economic rates of return range from about 10% for
roadside plantings to 27% for farm forestry. The overall economic rate of
return is about 13%.
60.       Most project beneficiaries are poor, with incomes below the critical
consumption level of about 76% of the national average. In order to measure
the impact of the project on income distribution and saving, a social cost-
benefit analysis was carried out to reflect the Government's objectives of
growth and income distribution. The results of the analysis give a social
rate of return of 36%, indicating that the project would have a positive
distributional impact as well as satisfy the traditional economic efficiency
criterion. Sensitivity analysis showed that the project's social rate of
return would exceed the economic rate of return under any reasonable assump-
tions about the Government's economic and social objectives.
61.       The most obvious risk is that the project may not lead to self-
sustained community involvement as expected, and thus may not achieve the
long-range goal of self-help social forestry. This risk would exist parti-
cularly in early years; however, the provision of active supervision and
guidance of the strengthened Social Forestry Directorate, community partici-
pation, and the extension and communication activities are expected to



- 19 -
minimize this risk. Another major risk is that the villagers may not provide
their modest contribution of helping protect project plantings. Again, the
"tree consciousness" generated by the field extension staff and the project's
education and communication activities are expected to minimize this risk.
Finally, there is a risk that richer and more influential people of the vil-
lages would siphon away the bulk of project benefits. Special care has been
taken to avoid this risk; in particular, contractual arrangements would specify
sharing of the forest produce, village committees would organize and supervise
distribution of the produce, and SFD staff would inform villagers of their
rights and be alert to possible abuses.
62.       Overall risks inherent in this innovative project are, therefore,
reasonable and worth taking considering the present need and the expected
benefits to the large number of poor villagers involved. An interim evalua-
tion would be carried out after three years of project implementation, so
that necessary adjustments can be made to facilitate attainment of project
objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the Project Agreement between the Association and the State of Uttar
Pradesh and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to Executive
Directors separately.
64.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
65.       An additional condition of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be the preparation of a model con-
tract, satisfactory to the Association, on the establishment of village
plantations (paragraph 48).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 23, 1979






ANNEX I
Page 1 of S
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                      I
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                       -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) L
TOTAL                       3287.6                                             SAME          SAME       NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL                1818.3                         MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME            INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b  ESTIMATE /b   REGION /c    GROUP /d           GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA(US$)                          60.0         90.0      150.0         167.4         182.9           432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         142.0        181.0      218.0(76)      65.7           88.9           251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          434.9        547.6      631.7 /f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   17.6            19.5      20.6           12.8          15.0            24.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000
(MILLIONS)               973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION
(MILLIONS)              1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY
POPULATION IS REACHED  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         132.0        167.0      192.0          85.2           46.8            42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0        308.0      347.0         322.6         254.1             95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.0         41.6       42.0(77)      44.0          43.6             44.9
15-64 YRS.                            55.9         55.3       55.0(77)      52.9           53.3            52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1          3.1        3.0(77)      2.9            2.9             3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  1.9          2.3       2.0           2.2           2.4              2.7
URBAN                                  2.5/I        3.4        3.5          4.2           4.0              8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         44.0          40.0      35.0(77)      45.1           44.3            42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          21.0         17.0      14.0(77)      17.3           19.7            12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.2          2.9        2.4(77)       3.2           2.9             3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..       3768.0    4518.0
USER (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         12.0       11.2           13.7          14.6            14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION                100.0        102.0     101.0           95.6          96.4           104.3
PER CAPITA (1969-71 = 100)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF CALORIES
(PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)            95.0         92.0       89.0          91.1          92.3            99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 51.0         53.0      48.0          49.6           50.0            56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            19.0         16.0       12.6          12.6          13.9             17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          28.0         22.0      10.0            .,            ..              7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.7         48.0       51.0(77)     43.1           45.8            53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                          ..        134.0      134.0          99.5         102.7            82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION
TOTAL                                  ..         17.0       33.0          30.0          26.4             31.1
URBAN                                  ..         60.0       83.0          66.3           63.5            68.5
RURAL                                  ..          6.0       20.0          17.2          14.1             18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0       20.0          15.7           16.1            37.5
URBAN                                 ..           85.0      87.0          66.9           65.9            69.5
RURAL                                  ..          1.0         2.0          2.5            3.4            25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5840.0/h    4890.0    3135.0(77)   8830.8          13432.7           9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11590.0/h    5220.0    6320.0(76)   8479.3            6983.3          2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2590.0/i    2020.0    1231.0(77)   1624.5           1157.6            786.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..         .,            ..          183.3            278.4
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..            ..         1348.8           1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..            ..           19.5            19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          ..         5.2           ..            5,2
URBAN                                 5.2           ..        4.8            ..           4.8
RURAL                                  5.2         ..         5.3           ..             5.3
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.6          2.8
URBAN                                               '                                     i   8            2.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..            ..           25.9             28.3
URBAN
RURAL                                                                                     8 . .     .  8.7  10.3



ANNEX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET            Page 2 of 5
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                      /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME            SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC       INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b   ESTIMATE /b    REGION /c         GROUP /d       GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:       TOTAL                    61.0         72.0      79.0(76)        59.1             62.9          75.8
FEMALE                  40.0         55.0       63.0(76)        38.4             45.9          67.9
MALE                    80.0          87.0      94.0(76)
SECONDARY:    TOTAL                    20.0         29.0       28.0(76)        19.9             14.4          17.7
FEMALE                  10.0         17.0       18.0(76)         9.9              8.8          12.9
MALE                    30.0         39.0       38.0(76)
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)        8.0          6.0/       . .             1.5             6.6           7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 29.0         38.0      40.0             38.2            38.5          34.3
SECONDARY                              16.0         17.0        ..             23.5             19.8          23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)              28.0         33.0       36.0            35.6            36.7          63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.7          1.0        1.2(76)         2.2             3.1           7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              5.0         21.0       24.0(76)         14.9            31.1          71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               ..          0.1        0.5              ..              2.8          14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                        11.0         16.0      16.0(75)          6.4             6.0          16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         4.0          6.3        3.8             ..              1.4           1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         175000.0    218000.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       31.3         32.6       32.2            21.3            24.2           28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   73.0         73.8      72.5             62.8            60.7          54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     10.4           9.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                      43.0         40.2      39.2             35.8            39.8          37.8
MALE                                       57.1         52.3       51.3            52.4            53.3          50.3
FEMALE                                     27.9         27.1      26.2             15.6            19.6          20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                       1.1          1.1        1.1             1.3             1.3           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         26.7        25.0/1      ..              18.6            20.3          19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       51.7          53.1/1     ..             42.8             45.1          48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         4.1           4.7/1     ..               7.3             5.7           5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         13.6         13.1/1     ..             19.3             U6.B          15.7
POVERTY TARGET GRObPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        83.0(77)        80.2             88.5         155.9
RURAL                                    ..          ..        73.0(77)        67.2             71.9          97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..          ..        80.0(75)          ..            100.8         143.7
RIURAL                                  ..           ..        50.0(77)        39.8             42.0          87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOA ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..            ..       47.0(77)        50.3             46.0          22.9
RURAL                                    ..          ..        52.0(77)        44.6             48.0          36.7
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e  Tower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);
/f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million; /g 1951-60;  /h 1962;  /i  1958;  /j  1967;
/k 1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million; /1 1964-65.
March, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFfINITIDONS 0? SOCIAL ThPiCAID
SeNe;  Although the lava are draw   Era snr..geeraly judged the cot eutherittic  and reliable, it ah-ld also be noted coat they may net h. inerna-
Tinna.Ilyc.onperaie   ras  of the loch of  -caderdinad definitinn   and con.Pts  aad by differ-t uneetries in oul-uttg the 'lac.  The data  r,nntees
useful to describe ord-  of  iaeie.ldico-   trends, sad  uhroeratnetrai    ao  differ-mn  between --  co-tia..
The  dIone  ooc  vrae  for eah todictr  r  ppultlor-aihd  g                        tmi.i nan, excluing the acresc -n  of the Indicaor and th  mast pepalated
cootre in eah group.  Dun tocI           fdt,grotp averages of all ladLoatror  for Capital Sorplas Oil fnrrsaed ofldi-star  ofocssto   .ersdsevr
disoa, f.-ionia, Lue ltionbotlo  a-d P-vart  for other on ry group  arepo,pw,latn-oibadg                           trig insan  aIthour  -ucloal  of the sotre-e oc1use ard
ao   ltpopulated countr.  Sinc  thecvrg  of uutisan   the  idictor  dpde an-telAhilitv of aioe  so   is no  ufr'. cauio  neteexrised
in relatino evresof one indicator to oauthsr.  These averoe  are moe-tly  efla   npaiala  of "xavd'=le  oe                                     prte t2he veuas. of one
iedioatorrattleoon   the contyu   rfrsnt   ron
LoND ARtCA (thousad s.hPoulation Per nfrrici.n - PopuietLue divided by c-nhe  ofp preticiag physi-
Total - To te1 sufceae   -orprisinn led  on d -          inau  eaten                      cowqsii          fr-n a ndiosi euccu.Latuieic lre.
Agrico1tuv-I - Or rcn   n   seo   gicultural are  usd temporarily                       Pocolatian ec awning cer- -  Popultian divided by mce   fpetoe
or pso_acetly lot crepe, pasturen, marhet and kcitohen icodas or to                       1 m alesd femle gredots noe,pratical nurs, an. .d aseNtoa    ces
lie fallow.Ponoltian ear bhnta  ad-rts    rbs                                                                                          d rualI Papuletioa (enrol,
oras   adcral) divdd by, the.irren tv  mahrof hospital bade
TNP P11 CAPITA (UnOl - GOP Par capIta sutnotes steetmrbet prcs                               riaeain pubict and p,irate geo.ro ~an'd sp-tcisand hos pital adye
calclatd b   aeocrinmthod as World  Oamb Atlas (1975-7T  baeis;                       hbhilitatian center.  Iopitaa ore  secbllsfeseecs pracneuly staffed by
19hD, 1970,end' 1971 data,                                                              at leas.t em  phy"lie..  Estahlisfhastc  prewidieg principally coatodla1
oas  reat incledad.  Runi hnpi-els, however, lclds health en.d -di-
EuNRCY CONPIPTION POD CAPITA :.- uuI  -oe.-ptinm  of geanrcie1 enrgy  un                    oat ote    atpraen             tffed by a portu.ise (bus by, amd .Ica s
an   lete., pe-olro,_ naua - ee sod hydro-, . eI..ee  sod gewibmeni                elacan, gaee,       . eidsE.  etc.>   hiob offer inpalec  ccmedatigs  end
electricity) in bilogrem   of coal aqoivalo_t par caPita.                               preelda a  inited reega of medical facilitie..
A""'enm   anh-peitaL bad - Tota  ouxhar of aenncsto or oi-h-rges
PPtD.ATtOn hOD VTALTATII~TICO                                                                rnhept    divIded by t'. u,,br of beds.
Toa  conlaton  old-ve  (illiueei - Os of July 1; 1960, 1979, end
1977 data.                                                                         MUSINTG
Uran...ot          (ateo   of toa)-ctir of urba  to total popel.taaim;        Asessoeo   ooeodferoapr noseoI                      ),tta.  chr  and rurl1
doffvent dainttu   othnrasey affect casp-rbillty of date                                A h:tflbeid. cnitc  agopttullduaaoo  nr  loe   qatr
axocg ucoatries.                                                  an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d their main -.Le.  A boarder or lodgar may or can nor he included In she
rocoLatio In Doe  2000 - Corn-  population Pr-j-Lnn   ore bed em                      Aros..ro  ann  ncr                to-cra,  bro.adrua-                  vrsecee
195ttlppltion by ags and see and chair moftlity and fertility                  opesnparanIal,uban, aad ron   ocoie  eorai-I dwellings.
rats.Preeolo   p-Aratara for mortelity rates capris o.f 3 level                  repotirely. Doellinge enclda  o-sana  strouturee cad on-cupted parta.
aesoneg lfe eoactony  tfbirth icr...sicg eith coutry's. per capita            Aceot   lcrcty (ame  ofiesll )- tta   urban  and rural  -
toon   lee,ed female  IfeI        pe   tne    .cbileingo as 77.5 ysn                   Cnotinl  sli hecth oleoniity i  Ilig _urters as parcotog   of
Th.armt-r  for fa-tiliny rate  loby.    lviaeoagdcnetotal, arbs5 and ruraldslea1epoiey
in fertility  according to Jnca   lana  sa.d past femily planLag per-
foenoace.      l,faub ootry ia then assigned on  of these 9 Conbiatlo0a            EDUCATlION
of motalty aed fertility trends fcr projcteiuaprpss                                  hdfwstd   ronatats
l'.i_tonr  Penulatio   - In a Icatlas_   Pnpclattmo, then  I is n ro g th              Primacy school;-totalmle and femal  - tin    total, maleand fesal  enrol-
eioca tinbirth rat  is oqaL to nba death race, end olofhs egoex  of oil ags- at the primary levl-a  pa-.r.esges of repocole pria-ry
o rutotva remins  -ont-.  Thin is echi..ad onl  afta  frniliy  ratas                   enhoni-ega pep.aitines;  -nenaly iclodee childre  aged 6-li years but
decline to the fepiacanee  lave  of -nit net ripr-doatie  rate,  hem .eoh              edjstad for different lengths of primary edeutian; for coontrion nith
genertIonof on   vepacesitself sooly    he Stteianse   Pop.letiQn               anvrsa'     dnto  enolet l   oaD 1   pr-e  since sane Pupils af.
eiacns timtd em  b  heal  of ths prolsetod charateriatic  of the               helms me  ba- the offinia1 aehal age.
onual i   he y-s  2000, aed th  care of den1ies of fertility rets             naadr  coi    .oa,ml and fensi  - Conputed as oboes;  -asodasy adun-
tovpl -net lel.                                                                tinrqin    n-et  rrpr  of approvdpriaynsrte;providee
hcc   itimrnP ro -nloih-  . Ic .t.ahed - The yea  ohs a Stationry Popsie-          geseLnainl   rtahcmtn    n  ro n   tnpaie   saly of
floe else has bane resobed.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12 ta 17 year  of age; o-rreapd-ac -or-e  er  geealy excluded.
Por os. Ia.-Mid-year population Par sq--r killnter (130 hegneres)                       ctheicl,  edonia, or ohar prgon    hih or-re   adepsed.atly or-
oftotal era.                                                                          dspermmsst of semondar  leetitutiana..
Pe  o.o.  soiciorl  ad - Cnputod sa above for                          1-rotre   ad  Nl-ecrras-eim r.nd oodary - Tota1 asdante sereiled in
only.                                                                                  prmr   a   aodry len La dmided by e.s               of teachera In the  ora
Ponolation ace ntr,'tore  aronet), - Cldrs  1-14   sr)  wokn-age                         apwdisg level..
(15-4 yern),and  etird  (I  yers and, 'ovr  as P.reta       f mid-          Adult literac  rate frcef-Ltaeadl (ble to read sad writs)a
ynar  poplaion.-                                                                         5preaaottal Aadir  popultion ogsd 15yer  and over.
growth -stee of tota  and urbanai-ya  ponito for 195 0-60,                           UIPIMmE
1960-PD  and 1979-17.                                                                I'esmee  oars leer nhoedosito               -P....ege  oar  capieatorca
Crude  irthrte(a  tcoe....d)   ""'ssa  lire birnhe per thoasnd ofosia lesteeghpron;ecusoblne,bensndmiay
mi-erpoplacieM; 16,1970 and 1977 da.reuim
Crude de_e  rts loer th....andl - nenua  deahs par chot.an  of eid-                    bai  aaialertnamdneltiem) - All types of rec..lonre for radio
yea  popelicl"; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                                              bre      it.arts togneral publicpetr thousand of pepolatlan; secludes: onliceesad
Grs   ecdocicrt-ueesoar of IOaht-ssaeea   ill bea                                   rs..aire    in cosrisad in year  ohenrgeca                 f rdbos     wsi
i.0 her coerli' opreduttive pried if she oneies   reeat se-                            efc;dt   o   eotyr    ayueh   oprhssneme  ouatnie
specifIc fetility raise; osclly flo-y-s veae  ending i  1960,                          abolishe  itoenia.S
1l70, and II:5.                                                                      :t rnelere  (p-c thousad poeletala) -.TV regeloen  for,broadcast to gemral
tally olaeaao-aucentor. ausi.    ce    edl-mel          bo.r of                   pblin Par nhoussad population: encldee  - asicaa  IV4  rmivere  in  on
acpreof birth-cotrol device.       draspcsof maniemL femily                      trmTV nyas  hnngmreo   o       newsL efet.
planing  progrsm.                                               tiewenener circulation fear thousand egoulotlon) - Shone the average rirteal-a-hoW  th
FemIr nlsoefthe uesIacmeo    are   ae                     - Pr tnege nf                   tine of 'daIly gearel interest neespapar, defined aapridelpbLi
macnod  wee of child-beaing ega (1-4          henl o  s  blrth-c Iolt-cation denotd primarily to recrding gnre1 new.  It Is considered to
devices to all nerrld 0mm  in    san   g  group.                                       he "daily" if it sppaa    t least four clans a weak.
FOOD AND NIIIRITITI                                                                         solId dain  the' sr:, llding  ad ison   to die-la cinana  an    bila
lodee oi fon  _rdnlnor cache f1o9l leii  - nde  ahr of par                                ..Lta.
Pe Ponia  orl  of caloisaP: reret of rnic      Cet) -Capwtad fran             DMLMEL
enry -qlvla  of . t food  opplise available in coutr  pa   aia                Toa  ao   ore(hmsdal-teosiel  sispeen, lenldaig armd
pe  dy  01aisl  oupplias eweprism  don-etle pr-dociem,imprte I...              forons  an  -epica"d bat e-clodig hasaswie, stdents, etc.  Dafioi-
euora,an .cmua   e  -cok.  nan eupplis   nlueaina  feed, eee                        isi varow   cwacie  re  ercaperble.
qoitrusd ia food proossaing, and  LeasI  diatribtcion.  Pa-                  tamle (anrunt) - rem1l labor force as p-rcennge of tona  labar ferns,
qairnonta ante atixaced by FAOd bsed on phv'io1gieal nee ds for nor-                 Aoncutore feenent) - Labor forca in feeming, foretry, huetiag and fishing
el "v a tivt  a-d health ceaidecing anvir-.asto1 temperature, body                    aspanntg  of totaL labor force.
caights,N ag    d too nietn,bihel     of population, and all1wing 10 par-            Industr  (maccent) - Labor forc  in eiirg. o          -erutia, s-f-otering sad
ceot for waste at broadold leel                                                        elcticty  water and gases. petntagef-tota  labor forte.
"cPooc  sovelc  oorecen fro   ner dsy -T prottein  -onta   of par                    Pertinicatlo  rate  "rar...ot  - total  mam M IArd female - Tota, mea, aed
capitaret spply   f land par day.  Net e.Pply of food is defined  as              lm L. lbor force as perc-tagee of theircseev  population; 1960O, 1970
shave.Reqeir-.ste for all counries oscablisbhd by UnDo preside for                     and 1975 data.  Tbhsee era ILs.  djoeted p-rticipacla  cres,  rfisocig age-
minio  allowancef 601h  grac  of total protein per dey aed 20 gins                   se terature of the population, and long tIns tred.
ofaimal ad pulse proate  of ohieh 10 gram  shoe1d he aelaI p-eteix.                Beeowicdaonde    reelo - lotte of populo-tioa ondor 10 and 65 and ever 
bees.. eadrds are Please the   h.ea  of 71 Prone of tota  protin and                   telbrfoe  ta age go..p of ID-64 y-er,
23 gr   of eia  prtis           .navrg   Per the osrid, peeponad by
FAO le  hbs Thln  Wrd  roo  Durve.                                                 INCUHE l10TtDlRa-T"lh-N                                ,d)r idbFfh.
Per    -tya   roel   nrfan aimal sod noise - Pr-tie copply of food               Perote.a. ofaiaalnn   ht   na    n   id   eevdh   iha
der,ived fran4animls and pulse  in gram   pat da.                                       p-rut, rih-e  20 pecant  pu t2pecn.od poorest 40 percet
Chid ben1)notltry rte ler thoueand) - Aeu-I dea ths per theme-                          of hnssholda.
and to oNe group 1-4 ...ra, to children ia thia 5 ageroup.
014170                                                                                   tatosa  oett  ovrtr eum  level 11511 onr canit    -ob-t and rurl1
ils seo  oe   t hirro (years  -Aorege eager of years of life remain-                     obs.tin   poverty lomlrhsta   non   ee   eo te  a mIimal
leg at brth  161, 1970, and1977d dav..nutritionaly adequate diet plu  essen..tial1oem-food rql                                                            e   is no
inetnneierte (ear chog-sd)   uncool 1eethe of Infants cedar                      frdb
vuc...   to eafe. wae   vecr f P2nnolacion   - ravel urban  suIdrr I -1                  icte`rs Povrybmln-0oetir   ra                           eprcpt  personaL
Nanher of people (t.tal, omn,sd rura) alth r-oenble  _c.n toilor   of the  onty
oaf a  atr -uppy (incLude.... tretd surface  -ae   o  o trerd hut                    Estimated coualrcam    boue  oey   cen   ee    acno-uban  cd
ard ooocar  u-ia)  oprcraeof thei r.vepa tto   populatinca.
Icuurouoae putl.    foain or ntendpwt 1atediact mor  thee
200  ntere fran        hos -a ecniderd as being aitb   ra.arooble
accstf tat  ocu.   I  rura  areas reasonable. ...... wold        PImpl
riot tue ho.--if. cv vonhre of inir hi....hold do cot faeto aped
diepoporbemoe  pat ofthe duov 1f1totubiep 'the1 raiy 5wtr  af                                                            To ic -rd looia1 Dat  loe
pural  on -: pececpesc   th i  repetie           .oploIuc.., Eacec  diarhe19
cayleloe  ne  oleolo  sd diapesl,  ith or aith-u   rane,o
r.tc  utet  and  -soo-utcr by usteboc  up.acn  or the  u  of  lit
privira andciiorlcaetr.



AbNEX I
bcoacinEinTm                               Page 4 of 5
US  rig   fTa  IN 1977: tS 150
GROS NATIONaL n XUCT 1N 1977/78                                                            Ail   31  o           (IM.. cM tent uries.)
ONBg, Aln    \                                              1960/61-196416      inl9w5 im9*/7      1970171-1976/77
GNP at Market Price             101.47      100.0                                                3.9                 3.8                3.2
Gross Domstic 1nvest_t          21.65       21.3
Gross Hatioal Saving            22.77       22.4
Current Account Balance  d/      1.04        1.0
Resource Balance   d/          - 0.31      - 0.3
OUTPUT LABOR roNCz AND Pr      IT! DI 1971
Valua Added  (at      cat)           .IUor FOrCe        .     APrWerr--
UI,Nil,                                    1rSIS.               x S  e    S Uaiioal Aweraf
Agriculture                      24.5           46.6              130.0    72.1             IS                4
Industry                         11.8           22.3               20.2    11.2             562             199
Srvices                          16.3           3 .1                        16.7            52              1
Total/average                    52.6          100.0              180.4   100.0             292
GOVERAMlT F1MxRc3
Oenral Gover_ent                                           Central G    ot
b  sln           19~~~7477-5-1927756                l271           97-7/17    97 51974    78
Current Receipts                164.42         18.9          16.2                            95.62         11.0           10.5
Current Rzpenditures            157.29         18.1           16.5                           Aa7           10.9            9
Currant Ruzlua/Deficit            7.13          0.8           1.6                             0.35         a...            0.6
Capital Rependituras  f/         62.58          7.2           7.0                            43.31          5.0            5.0
gxternal Assistance (net)  A/     9.82          1.1           1.6                             9.82          1.1            1.6
AIMIU  CUDIT AND MIC8              1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    19778       8t_ber 1977    Setber 1978
(Re Billion outstanding at ad of period)
money and Quasi May                 121.4      198.4      220.3      254.7      308.9      365.1          334.8            395.8
Bank  Credit to Gove nnt (not)       52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1      110.2      129.7          119.3            139.5
4ank Credit to Carcial Sector        64.6      107.0      126.7      153.9      185.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(Percenr-ta   or lndx IhNubers)                          J ar  1978        J-z-r  1979
honey and Quasi lAmey as ? of GDM    30.1        33.5      31.5       34.5       38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price lodex
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      176.6       185.8        184.5             184.6
Annm l percentege chnges in:
Vholesale Price Index                 7.7       20.2       25.2      - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2               0.1
bank Credit to Coverment (net)       10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1        9.0        17.7         13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Coercial Sector       19.4       22.6       18.4       21.5       20.3        13.5         16.6              14.4
I/ The per capita GNP *etista is at _ rket prices, calculated by the conersion technique need in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the averae enchange rate preailing daring te period eowerd.
b/ Quick Ratiatos.
cI Cmputed from trend line of GIP at factor cost seri*s, including one observation before first year And one
observation after last year of listed period.
d/ World bank astimates; not oeceasarlly consistent with official National Account Statistics.
*/ Transfers between Centre eod States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
A/ Reternal grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h/         h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                MERCRHUfISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                     U0S  Ml.       x
Exports of Goods                 4,672     5,753        6,276       6,800              Engineering Goods              610        11
Imports of Goods                -6,449    -5,928       -7,237      -8,400              Tea                            417         7
Trade Balance                   -1,777      - 175       - 961      -1,600              Gems                           377         7
NFS (net)                          310        360         650         700              Clothing                       331         6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                -1.467        185       - 311      -  900                       Products              278         5
Jute Manufactures             267         5
Interest Payments (net)          - 216      - 180        - 50          -               Iron Ore                       265         5
Other Factor Payments (net)         -          -           -           -               Cotton Textiles                248         4
Net Transfers  jI                  470        730       1,400       1,300               Sugar                         244         4
_                                                                       Others                      2,530        45
Balance on Current Account      -1,213        735       1.039         400
Total                       5.567       100
Official Aid
Disbursements                 2,341     1,953        1,628       1,805              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1978 !/
Amortization                  - 531     - 560        - 645       - 725                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              242      - 337       - 330       - 158              Outstanding and Disbursed               14.8
All Other Items                   - 45      - 216         384         205              Undisbursed                              4.3
Outstanding, including
Increase in Reserves (-)         - 794    -1,575       -2,076      -1,527                   Undisbursed                        19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)        2,172      3,747       5,823       7,350                                               hll/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/      1,365      3,276       5,668       7,350              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FM 1977/78           15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                          1,417     1,581        1,817       1,980                                                   US$ million
of which: Petroleum            1,417     1,581        1,817      1,980                                                IBRD          IDA
Exports                             43        37           33       a.a.               Outstanding and Disbursed          613        3,864
of which; Petroleum               22        21           18       n.a.               Undisbursed                        615        1,992
Outstanding, including                  i
Undisbursed             1,228        5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971          Us$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972      US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                     Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978             US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official sid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATBMRNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1979)
US$ Million-'
Loan or                                                                                            (Net of CaU cellatious)
Credit No.        Year       Borrower                    Purpose                            Bank           IDA       Undisbursed
40 Loansl                                                                                1,100.6
55 Credits fully disbursed                                                                               3,338.6
267-IN            1971         India       Wheat Storage                                     --              5.0           1.4
294-IN            1972         India       Bihar Agricultural Markets                        --             14.0           2.7
312-IN            1972         India       Population                                        --             21.2           3.1
342-IN            1972         India       Education                                         --             12.0           7.0
356-IN            1972         India      IDBI                                              --              25.0           9.1
378-IN            1973         India      Mysore Agricultural Markets                       --               8.0           6.7
902-IN            1973         ICICI       Industry DFC X                                    62.8           --             0.3
390-IN            1973         India       Bombay Water Supply                              --              55.0         13.4
427-IN            1973         India       Calcutta Urban Development                        --             35,0           3.7
440-IN            1973         India       Bihar Agricultural Credit                         -              32.0           7.8
456-IN            1974         India       NP Apple Processing S Marketing                   --             13.0           8.8
481-IN            1974         India       Trombay IV                                        --             50.0           3.2
1011-IN            1974         India       Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                           52.0           --            28_7
482-IN            1974         India       itarnataka Dairy                                  --             30.0         22.7
502-IN            1974         India       Rajasthan Canal CAD                               -              83.0         43.7
520-IN            1974         India       Sindri Fertilizer                                 --             91.0           7.1
521-IN            1974         India       Rajasthan Dairy                                   --             27.7         21.6
522-IN            1974         India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy                              --             16.4          10.7
526-IN            1975         India       Drought Prone Areas                              --              35.0         17.4
1079-IN            1975         IFFCO       IFFCO Fertilizer                                 109.0           --            28.4
1097-IN            1975         ICICI       Industry DFC XI                                   97.5           -              8.5
532-IN            1975         India       Godavari Barrage Irrigation                      --              45.0         18.1
541-IN            1975         India       West Bengal Agricultural Development              --             34.0          20.4
562-IN            1975        India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                     --              24.0         11.3
572-IN            1975         India       Rural Electrification                             --             57.0          34.8
585-IN            1975         India       Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                        --             40.0          30. 7
598-IN            1975         India       Fertilizer Industry                               --            105.0          76.9
604-IN            1976         India       Power Transmission IV                             --            150.0        107.4
609-IN            1976         India       Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                      --              4.0           2.9
610-IN            1976         India       Integrated Cotton Development                     --             18.0         16.1
1251-IN(TW)         1976        India       Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                        145.0           --          126.8
1260-IN            1976         India       IDBI II                                           40.0           --            30.4
1273-IN            1976         India       National Seeds                                    25.0           --           24.7
1313-IN            1976         India       Telecommunications VI                             80.0           -             25.1
1335-IN            1976         BMRDA       Bombay Urban Transport                            25.0           --           15.0
680-IN            1977         India       Kerala Agricultural Development                   --             30.0          29.9
682-IN            1977         India       Orissa Agricultural Development                   --             20.0         17.9
685-IN            1977         India       Singrauli Thermal Power                           --            150.0        131.3
687-IN            1977         India       Madras Urban Development                          --             24.0         19.2
695-IN            1977         India       Gujarat Fisheries                                 --              4.0           3.5
1394-IN(TW)        1977         India       Gujarat Fisheries                                 14.0           --            14.0
690-IN            1977         India       West Bengal Agricultural Development              --             12.0          12.0
712-IN            1977         India       Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development           --             10.0         10.0
715-IN            1977         India       Second ARDC Credit                                --            200.0        108.9
720-IN            1977         India       Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                         --             23.0          20.4
728-IN            1977         India       Assam Agricultural Development                    --              8.0           7.7
1473-IN             1977        India       Bombay Nigh Offshore Development                 150.0           --            81.4
736-IN            1977         India       Maharashtra Irrigation                            --             70.0         62.7
737-IN            1977         India       Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                  --             13.0         12.2
740-IN            1977         India       Orissa Irrigation                                 --             58.0          56.0
1475-IN             1977        ICICI       Industry DFC XII                                  80.0           --            57.9
747-IN            1978         India       Second Foodgrain Storage                          --            107.0        102.7
756-IN            1978         India       Second Calcutta Urban Development                --              87.0          73.0
761-IN            1978         India       Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research           --              8.0           8.0
1511-IN            1978         India       IDBI Joint/Public Sector                          25.0           --            25.0
1549-IN             1978        TEC         Third Trombay Thermal Power                      105.0           --            97.3
788-IN            1978         India       [arnataka Irrigation                              --            126.0        126.0
793-IN            1978         India       Korba Thermal Power                               --            200.0        200.0
806-IN            1978         India       Janmm-Ktashoir Horticulture                       --             14.0          14.0
808-IN            1978         India       Gujarat Irrigation                                --             85.0          85.0
815-IN            1978         India       Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                          --             17.5          17.5
816-IN            1978         India       Second National Seeds                             --             16.0          16.0
1592-IN             1978        India       Telecommnunications VII                          120.0           --            93.4
824-IN            1978         India       National Dairy                                    --            150.0         148.0
842-IN*           1978         India       Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage             --            196.0         196.0
843-IN            1978         India       Naryana Irrigation                                --            111.0         106.1
844-IN            1978         India       Railway Modernioation 5 Maintenance               --            190.0         187.5
848-IN            1978         India       Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage                  --             38.0          37.7
855-IN            1979         India       National Agricultural Research                    --             27.0          27.0
862-IN*           1979         India       Composite Agricultural Extension                  --             25.0          25.0
871-IN*           1979         India       NCDC                                                             30.0          30.0
1648-IN*            1979        India       Ranagundam Thermal Power                          50.0           --            50.0
874-IN*           1979         India       Ra-agundam Thermal Power                          --            200.0         200.0
889-IN            1979         India       Punjab Irrigation                                 -             129.0         129.0
Total                                                                  2,280.9        6,747.4
of which has been tepaid                                               927.7           46.8
Total now outstanding                                                  1,353.2        6,700.6
Amount Sold                         133.3
of which has been repaid          111.5                                 21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         1,331.4        6,700.6
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                                           656.7        2,148.7
Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.4       13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.4        5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7       7.6
Repaid                              15.9         -        15.9
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            25.6        8.0       33.6
Undisbursed                          4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,806 million
as of March 31, 1979, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 (US$22.2 million) are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Credit 715 is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
currently estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%.
Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote mush-
room production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. land has been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading
sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment has been ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture
Project was declared effective on January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. A second loan (Loan 1592)
continues support of the development of India's telecommunication system
through FY 1981 and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian
telecommunication industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$65 million had
been awarded by December 1978. This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; almost all of this amount has also been
committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 598 is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments.  IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
November 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for
50, and loans approved for 49 markets. Construction had been completed for
19 and was in progress for 31 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 11
market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and
improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is
improving. As of October 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion was underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisi-
tion are nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are
expected to be completed by their closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closin
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$9.6 million by the end of
March. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; (expected) Effective
Date: June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project components and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of
additional water (455 mld) in the second quarter of 1979; completion of water
treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically fore-
cast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has
allowed engineering design of-the project sewerage components to proceed, so
that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-1980,
two years later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the
project entity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implementation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urban service system.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment
jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 252 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. The response of small farmers to the project is excellent.
GOMP has plans to cover all districts in the State. Technical services in-
vestments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports.
The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
800 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and
procurement is making adequate progress. Based upon the good results expe-
rienced, GOR is planning to expand the form of dairy development to all other
districts of the State.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements reached 60% of total credit amount as of
March 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129.0 million credit of March 30,
1979.  Effective Date:  July 3, 1979 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 7,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
May 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects, totalling US$123 million, finance the reorgani-
zation and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of
adaptive agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institutional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months. A
project supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit
816) is now effective.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered. Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority. Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, seafood
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978;-Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements reached 46% of the loan amount on March 31, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six months during 1978.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
U.P. Forest Department.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
April 1978 and September 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 20, 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 4, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1979
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOUP to formulate a research program, by December 31,
1979 (paragraph 43);
(b) GOUP to establish at least three communications
units by April 1, 1980 (paragraph 44);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  GOUP to make available low-cost housing or rental
allowances and credit and travelling allowance
to field staff to ensure sufficient incentive for
the purchase and utilization of motorcycles and
bicycles (paragraph 47);
(d)  GOUP to formulate a model contract, between SFD
and villages, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(paragraph 48);
(e)  GOUP to establish the State Policy Review Commit-
tee, the Project Implementation Committee and the
District Level Committees no later than December 31,
1979 (paragraph 49);
(f)  GOUP to ensure recovery of at least the direct
plantation costs (paragraph 52); and
(g)  GOUP to submit for IDA's comments a sample of ten
plantation plans no later than March 31, 1980
(paragraph 52).



IBRD 14120
78\                                       80'                                       82'                         DEM-    L  s
CHINA
HIMACHAL                                                         /              *AKBHUTA                                                            P.
PRADESH
30'  'ttA  UTTARKASHI           CAO _                        T              i                                   INDIA
HARYANAr  /-'  >       A, THRIGARWAL,                                      .A
PAURI                                                                                                 84            30-
ALMORA                                                      N  D
j,/,,'' t',t', .-N                          * .                           / 5   UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
AP        8    ,;>J  -r\. > S                                             /SOCIAL FORESTRY ORGANIZATION
* 4yseWr,   ,, .// . ./   ,  . / NAINI'TAL    
N  NIAL                                                      *                                     Dtrit Boudar*esDistrict Headquarters  District Boundaries
< ~C79>/      .          .....         .      .,/'/  /  .  ' C's  , '  . . ................ x r  L   Divisional Headquarters  -  State Boundaries
A'ABA'# /'',, 7>Rt                                      D !  Regional Headquarters  -*- International Boundaries
DELHK)<'4,// /       /     /      .     '/' . g'L/ A-                                Q     State Headquarters                Forest Region Boundaries
< ty * PILIBhlT >.>.\ Project Area                     l            Linkage of two or more
PILIBH'ITmea
Areo               ~~~~~istricts to make one forest
/   ,  nvj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~division.
~~aw~*T$///   _~~2'~<"/   z              ,       'H'  A  ~~  LAKHIMPURKHERI   /    \                                                                28'
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <
: LALITPUR L_                                            ''w'~~~ //'                ,,+ z        BIA
LA8                                                  IMPRK                                                                             28PRR
L
'           _ -        0    ~~~~~~        ~~20    40   tS0    80    100        MIRZAPU      (               IA
KlLofE20R                                /             *1
TOrs map has bees prepared by ithe Worid Bank a sta ff enCittS.ivey for the cnor en,anOe9j
-24                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oy thereaders oy the reveort o wio*ch t,sp attac hed p7To he 3Wt densmotio sand andthe2
24'                            ~~~~~~~~athiletes, any iodgmeat son ithe legal status af any terntory or any endorsement or  N   i}  \
78'                                       80-                                       82'                                             MARCH 1979



