Document of           FILE EP    P'V
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 238 69-IN
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 23, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture B Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              Rupees (Rs.) 8.6
Rs 1              US$0.116
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                        1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                     10,000 square meters
1 square meter (m2)          =     10.76 square feet
1 acre                             0.405 hectares
1 metric ton (mt)            =     1,000 kg
1 kilogram (kg)                    2.2 pounds
1 cubic meter (m3)           =     34.97 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF            -    Assistant Conservator of Forests
Addl. CCF      -    Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
CCF            -    Chief Conservator of Forests
CDF            -    Community Development Forester
CF             -    Conservator of Forests
Dy. CF         -    Deputy Conservator of Forests
FD             -    Forest Department
FEW            -    Forest Extension Worker
GOI            -    Government of India
GOUP           -    Government of Uttar Pradesh
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
M              -    Million
MEU            -    Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
N              -    Nitrogen Fertilizer
NDO            -    New Delhi Office
NDP            -    Net Domestic Product
SFD            -    Social Forestry Directorate
UP             -    Uttar Pradesh
VFC            -    Village Forest Committee
VLW            -    Village Level Worker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...........................................        1
A.   Forestry in India . ...... .... ...           .1...... 
Sectoral Context .............                           1
Bank Group Role in the Sector .................. .       1
B.   The State of Uttar Pradesh ...................  ...      2
General .. ... I                                         2
Socio-Economic Aspects ...........                      2
Village Life ......... ..     ........................   3
Rural Energy ......       ........................       4
C.   Forestry in Uttar Pradesh ................... ....       4
Forest Resources . ......................                4
Contribution of Forestry to the Economy .... .....      5
Forest Policies, Institutions and Programs ......        6
Social Forestry ...... ...........................      7
II.   THE PROJECT ..      ...........................               9
A. General .. ..           ................   9
Project Area .      ...................................  9
Project Objectives ......    ........................    9
General Description ....       ........................  10
B.   Detailed Features ......     .........................  10
Plantings including Farm Forestry ........... ....      10
Project Organization .....    .......................   14
Communication/Publicity at Village Level   ...          16
Nurseries        .......................................  17
Plantation Protection ..     .........................    18
Research        ........................................  18
Training ....................... . .............        19
III.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ........                        21
A. Cost Estimates              . . .21
B.   Project Financing ...                    .      ..      22
C. Procurement .......                      .22
D. Disbursement and Audit           . . .23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited India in November 1978, comprised of: Mrs. I. Girardot-Berg, Messrs.
R.D.H. Rowe and R. Moreno (IDA); and Messrs. Holloway and Barnabas
(Consultants) and of a follow-up mission in March 1979, comprised of
Mrs. I. Girardot-Berg and Mr. K. Loganathan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
IV. ORGANIZATION ..........................................     25
General  . .... 25
Community Participation      ........................  25
Social Forestry Directorate ................... .    26
Monitoring and Evaluation ..      ....................  28
Project Coordination ....      .......................  29
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  .........     30
Yields and Production ............... ............   30
Cost Recovery by SFD ...........................     31
Sharing of Produce between Villagers .... .......    31
Marketing Arrangements ..     .......................  32
Financial Impact of the Project on GOUP Budget .     32
VI.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ................. ..    33
General   ...................................... .   33
Rate of Return Calculations .......*......    .      34
Project  Risks   ..................................  35
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ...................... ...............     37
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Fuelwood Planting Program Required to Meet the Needs
of UP Rural People
Table 1.1: Consumption of Rural Households
(Northern India)
Table 1.2: Plantation Establishments: Physical Achievements
of the Forest Department
ANNEX 2:  Plantation Species, Models and Yields
Table 2.1:  Forest Plantation Species
Table 2.2:  Comparison of Plantation Models
Table 2.3:  Yields
Table 2.4:  Phasing of Project Plantings
Table 2.5:  Villages under Self-Help Scheme
ANNEX 3:  Assumptions Made in R.O.R. Calculations
Table 3.1:  Financial and Economic Prices
Table 3.2:  Financial Benefits and Cost Streams
Table 3.3:  Economic Benefits Streams
Table 3.4:  Economic Cost Streams



-3-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Table 3.5: Social Analysis: Derivation of Distribution Weight
Table 3.6: Social Analysis: Incremental Consumption
ANNEX 4:  Disbursement and Auditing Procedures
Table 4.1   Disbursement Schedule
Chart 4.1   Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 5:  Charts and Cost Tables
Table 5.1:  Project Costs Summary
Table 5.2:  Staff Costs
Table 5.3:  Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5.4:  Training
Table 5.5:  Seed Testing and Research
Table 5.6:  Nursery Costs
Chart 5.1:  Forest Department Organization After Project
Chart 5.2:  Project Organization Chart
Chart 5.3:  Organization at Divisional Level
ANNEX 6: Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
I.  BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in India
Sectoral Context
1.01      India's forest lands account for 23% of the total land area, or
75 M hectares, but the forestry and logging sector only contributes some 1.5%
to NDP. Domestic roundwood requirements by the year 2000 are projected to be
nearly 290 M m3 (fuelwood 225 M m3 and industrial roundwood 65 M m3, of
which 52 M m3 would be hardwood and 13 M m3 conifer). About 45% of the
conifer would be needed for pulpwood. Continuation of existing plantation
programs should ensure the supply of industrial hardwood and about half of the
coniferous roundwood demand. However, coniferous pulpwood and fuelwood would
be in short supply. To ensure adequate supply of pulpwood by the year 2000,
half a million ha of tropical pine would have to be planted by the year 1994.
This would require some US$275 M in 1977 terms. Regarding fuelwood, if it is
assumed that 150 M m3 will continue to be supplied from existing resources,
provision would still have to be made for an additional 75 M m3 by the year
2000, requiring an annual planting program of 450,000 ha costing some US$360 M
annually. In terms of availability of both land and financial resources, this
target cannot be achieved. More realistic might be a target of 225,000
hectares over the 1980s.
1.02      India's strategy for forestry development reflects both priorities:
first to develop its Production Forestry programs to supply the growing needs
of the domestic wood products industry (particularly pulp and paper) and
second to develop its Social Forestry programs to supply fuelwood and also
fodder, small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population. En-
compassing both objectives is the recognition of the vital role environmental
forestry plays in soil and water conservation. In order to carry out the
required forestry programs, the National Commission of Agriculture Report
(1976) recommended that each state should reorganize its Forest Department
in two separate wings. The first one issued from the existing organization
would remain in charge of the traditional Production Forestry activities,
while a new wing would be created and entrusted with the responsibility for
implementing Social Forestry activities. The Forest Departments of Gujarat
and Uttar Pradesh States were the first to create separate Social Forestry
divisions.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
1.03      The Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit
609-IN)--the first to be financed by the Bank Group in India -- is the initial



- 2-
phase of a major project aimed at the establishment of an integrated wood
product industry in Madhya Pradesh. The industrial feasibility study, due to
be completed by December 1979, is likely to recommend an integrated 100,000
tons/year printing and writing paper mill and 50,000 m3 output sawmill
costing some US$220 M.
1.04       In early 1978, in recognition of the pressing need to expand social
forestry activities, GOI and the Bank agreed to examine the possibilities for
developing projects in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. Joint GOI and Bank (NDO)
missions visited both States to identify suitable projects and to initiate
preparation. The FAO/CP assisted in preparation; twice in Uttar Pradesh and
once in Gujarat.  Trhe Uttar Pradesh Project was appraised in October/November
1978 and the Gujarat Project was appraised in March 1979.
B. The State of Uttar Pradesh
General
1.05       The State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) in the northeastern part of India is
bordered by the Himalayas in the North and the Vindhyan hills and plateau in
the South (Map 12139). The Gangetic Plain between both highlands covers the
major portion of the State. The State gets its major share of rains between
mid-June and mid-September (83%) from the Bay of Bengal monsoon; the remaining
(17%) falling during October to February. Annual precipitation ranges from
1,000-1,200 mm in the eastern part to 600-1,000 mm in the western part. In
the rains, erosion by run-off is acute in all wastelands or uncultivated areas,
such as roadside, canal banks and village commonlands. During the dry season
erosion occurs in all the plain areas which are treeless. With the exception
of the Himalayan region, UP enjoys a warm climate. The winter temperature in
the major part of the State ranges from 120 C to 170 C, with occasional
freezing spells. Average summer temperatures in the plains vary from 270 C
to 320 C, with extremes of 450 C or more in May/June. Soils are mostly
deep alluvium, deposited by the Ganges River and its tributaries. About 65%
of the land is cultivated and 85% of the cultivated area is devoted to the
production of cereals and pulses. Sugarcane, oilseeds, potato and cotton are
the major non-foodgrains grown on the remaining 15% of the cultivated area.
Socio-Economic Aspects
1.06       With a population of nearly 100 M, UP is the most populated State in
India. Only six countries -- China, USSR, USA, Japan, Brazil and Indonesia --
have populations that exceed this Indian State. UP accounts for 17% of India's
population, while its geographical area (294,000 km2) covers only 9% of the
country. The population density is thus extremely high at 330/km2.
1.07       Per capita income of about US$115 is one of the lowest in India.
Between 1960/61 and 1975/76 the State income grew at an annual rate of only
2.2% , barely keeping pace with population growth. By almost all economic



- 3 -
indicators, UP is one of the least advanced States in India. Nearly 86% of
the population is rural as against 78% for India, and about 55% of the State's
domestic product originates from the agricultural sector, which employs 78%
of the working force, compared to 42% and 70% for the whole country. About
67% of the holdings are below one hectare, against 50% for the nation. Con-
sumption of fertilizers is only 17 kg N/ha and agricultural yields are con-
sistently below the national averages.
1.08      Over the last 20 years, there has been no improvement in the living
conditions of the rural poor of U.P. According to a Bank study on "Rural
Poverty and Agricultural Growth in India," the proportion of the UP population
living below the absolute level of poverty has remained around 50% since the
late fifties.  Thus, in absolute terms, their number has increased.  Today an
estimated 40 million people in Uttar Pradesh live at the margin of existence.
They are small farmers, landless agricultural laborers and rural artisans.
Their average monthly consumption expenditures are less than US$6 per capita.
Improving the livelihood of these people is the main goal of the Government of
U.P. (GOUP) rural development strategy, the Antyodaya programs, which literally
means "rise of the lowest man."  The main elements of this strategy include
increased employment opportunities through development of cottage industries,
and improved living conditions through betterment of villages.
Village Life
1.09      In UP there are 112,000 villages of 700 people on average.  There
is heavy pressure on the vegetation in and around villages. Few trees can
be seen, and between the houses and around the settlements no grass is left
because cattle trample and graze every palatable weed to the root. People
collect what shrubs they can find, roots and all, to provide fuel for cooking.
1.10      Livestock is an integral part of village life and buffaloes or
cattle are kept by most families for milk, draught power, manure, and dung
cake for cooking. There are approximately 26 M cattle and 12 M buffaloes in
UP, an average of two to three animals per family. Because of acute shortage
of grass during the dry season and tree fodder throughout the year, livestock
is generally underfed and produces little. Cattle and buffaloes are allowed
to graze free on commonlands, but fodder collection -- cutting of grass and
lopping of fodder trees -- normally supplements grazing.
1.11      The village commonlands of Uttar Pradesh (229,000 ha in total) are
striking examples of gross and persistent overuse, resulting in the loss of
vegetation, soil and soil fertility, and the continuing spread of unproductive
alkaline soils. Within a month or two after the end of the rains, palatable
grasses are reduced to a thin, fragile cover; and patches of bare soil are
exposed and widen in ensuing months, as a result of grazing, trampling and
wind erosion. In the dry season, palatable trees and shrubs are lopped for
fodder or browsed to the point where they are frequently killed. At the
start of the rains, soil cover is minimal and erosion by run-off of preci-
pitation is substantial.



-4-
Rural Energy
1.12       Rural households meet their energy requirements almost exclusively,
95%, from non-commercial fuels (See Annex 1, Table 1.1). In the plains, they
use firewood (36% of their energy needs), vegetable and crop wastes (32%) and
dung cake (27%). Commercial fuels are used mostly for lighting - kerosene
(3-1/2%) and electricity (1/2%). Charcoal represents a negligible share (1%).
All fuels except electricity are used for cooking, which accounts for 91% of
the needs; the balance of requirements is for space heating, 5%, and lighting,
4%. Cooking is done over open fires, or on chulas (small open stoves) which
burn fuels at a very low thermal efficiency.
1.13       The energy consumption pattern in the plains differs significantly
from that in the hills. In the hills, where the household energy consumption
is 30% higher than in the plains, because of colder temperature, the consump-
tion of fuelwood (1600 kg) is more than twice that in the plains (650 kg).
This is explained by the larger area of forest available in the hill regions.
It is interesting to note, however, that although the per capita livestock
numbers are also greater than in the plains, an average hill family burns
only one-fourth the amount of dung cake used by a plains family. This indi-
cates that in situations of greater fuelwood supplies, the local population
prefers wood rather than dung, which is better used as manure.
1.14       A major proportion, 85%, of non-commercial fuels is collected free,
and income does not seem to have any effect on the amount of fuel collected.
Households resort to collection whenever there is access or opportunity.
Overall, an estimated 82% of the total number of households collect firewood
at no monetary cost. Under these conditions, although such collection re-
quires time and effort -- women devote hours a day in searching for fuel --
it would be impracticable to expect these households to start purchasing
fuelwood once it became available through a village fuelwood plantation.
C. Forestry in Uttar Pradesh
Forestry Resources
1.15       The State must be regarded as seriously deficient in forest areas
and in recent decades this situation has worsened, principally as a result of
increasing human and livestock population pressure on these areas. Although
forests occupy 17% of the total area of the State, compared with a national
average of 23%, the per capita forest area is only 0.05 ha, one of the lowest
in India which has a national average of 0.14 ha and which is, in turn, well
below the world average of 1.04 ha. This unsatisfactory situation is made
infinitely more acute for the human population by the inequitable distribution
of forest. Most forest occurs in the Hills in the north and far northwest
and, to a lesser degree, in the south-easterly extremity of the State (Map
12139). In the Gangetic plains, where the bulk (85%) of the human population
is located and the demand for forest products is greatest, forest land occu-
pies less than 7% of the total area. Furthermore, much of the listed forest



areas that are outside the jurisdiction of the Forest Department are seriously
degraded and often denuded of tree cover; the condition of reserved forests
in the project area is little better due to over-exploitation by the people
in the past.
1.16      All forests are State owned.  The majority of these forests (81%)
are managed by the Forest Department: these are the reserved, protected, and
unclassed forests. Three years ago the Forest Department also took over the
management and rehabilitation of Civil and Soyam forests (14%) which were pre-
viously under the control of the Revenue Department and were for villagers'
use. These forests, located in the Hills, are badly degraded. Finally, in
the Hills, 5% of forests are managed by the local communities under the
supervision and technical assistance of the Forest Department. Exploitation
of timber, firewood (except fallen firewood), and minor forest produce is
done in accordance with a working plan prepared by the local forest office.
Produce is normally sold by public auction conducted by the Divisional Forest
Officer, except that when the estimated price of the produce is below Rs 5,000,
the auction may be done by the panchayat. The net income, after deducting the
costs incurred by the Forest Department, is credited to a forest fund, which
is under the control of the District Collector. The fund can be used only
for projects of local public utility or for the development of the panchayat
forest.
Contribution of Forestry to the Economy
1.17      In 1977/78 the forestry sector contributed some 4% of State revenue,
and accounted for about 2% (Rs 875 M) of the State NDP. These figures, how-
ever, take no account of the very considerable quantities of fuelwood, small
timber, fodder, thatching grass, fruits and medicinal herbs that are taken by
villagers. The commercial forests of UP, located almost exclusively in the
hill areas, present very low overall average figures for timber yields
(approximately 0.5 m3/year). This is because at high altitude growing con-
ditions are poor, accessibility is limited, and forest cover in steep area is
maintained primarily for catchment protection; at lower altitude production
has often been reduced by overuse by graziers. In addition to sawn timber,
the forests in UP support the following large-scale industries: pulp and
paper, veneer and plywood, and turpentine and resin industries. They also
support a large number of small scale and cottage industries, such as matches,
paper, carpentry, baskets and oil extraction. Finally, forests play a vital
role in protecting the State's watersheds in mountainous and hill areas and
thereby preventing soil erosion, reducing flood hazard and ensuring a sustained
flow of irrigation and drinking water for farmers and urban dwellers downstream.
In the plains, they ameliorate micro climates both for the human population
and agricultural production and restrict soil erosion by wind. Virtually all
of the State's national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, and recreation areas are
situated in forest areas.
1.18      There is no doubt that the requirements for forest products far
exceed the supply. For example, industrial wood supplies are presently of
the order of 1 million m3 per annum, whereas the demand is estimated to be
nearly four times this amount. There is evidence that many forest-based



- 6 -
cottage industries have died for lack of raw material. However, the big gap
remains fuelwood. While fuelwood consumption is somewhere around 18 M m3,
fuelwood requirements 1/ are estimated at 42 M m3 per annum in 1978 and
would be about 63 M m3 by the year 2000. Assuming that 18 M m3 would continue
to be supplied from existing resources, the additional fuelwood needed by the
year 2000 on account of population increase would require an annual planting
program of about 80,000 ha over the next 15 years. To replace the use of
organic manure as fuel would require a planting program of 200,000 ha per
annum (see Annex 1).
Forest Institutions, Policies and Programs
1.19        Forest Institutions.  The Forest Department is responsible for the
management of State forests.  Its administrative head is the Chief Conservator
of Forests (CCF):  he is assisted by four Additional Chief Conservators (Addl
CCF), who are responsible for several forest circles (Chart 5.1 in Annex 5).
There are fifteen forest circles, each headed by a Conservator of Forests (CF),
some of which are functional circles (e.g. research and development, working
plans, soil conservation) and the remainder are territorial. There are two
additional officers of conservator rank: the Field Director of the Tiger
Project and the Director of Social Forestry. All forest circles are divided
into 3-7 divisions, under the control of a Deputy Conservator (Dy CF); sub-
divisions are controlled by Assistant Conservators (ACF).   The Department has
a competent technical staff composed of 256 professional officers (ACF and
above), 2,031 technical staff (Forest Rangers and Foresters) and 4,309 junior
staff (Forest Guards and equivalent personnel).
1.20      Professional officers and Rangers are recruited from among science
graduates and receive a two-year forestry course at national training centers
in Dehra Dun, U.P., (ACF's and Rangers) or Barnihat, Meghalaya State (ACF's).
Training of Foresters and Forest Guards occupies one year and is provided
within the State at Haldwani (Foresters) or at one of six training centers
for Forest Guards. The Department has an active forest research and develop-
ment circle divided into three divisions to cover hill, foothill and plains
areas and a sub-division on forest inventory and survey. The principal fields
of research are concerned with improvements to nursery techniques, use of new
species and planting methods, seed testing and production, tree breeding and
genetic selection, utilization, statistics and mensuration, and tools and
equipment. In 1974, the State established a Forest Corporation to improve
logging practices and supply timber and fuelwood to consumers at cost. It
employs a technical staff of over 700 persons and was responsible for 17%
of total exploitation in hill forests by 1977-78; this proportion will be
increased very substantially in the near future.
1.21      State forest policy, which follows the guidance provided by national
forest policy but with more specific reference to major land use problems
within the State, has the following principal objectives:
1/   i.e. fuelwood requirements are defined as total amount of fuelwood
required to substitute for organic manures which are currently used as
fuel, in addition to fuelwood used as fuel.



(a)  increase land areas under forest in the interests of
ecological stability and manage forests for soil and
water conservation;
(b)  manage forest areas in the interest of adjacent villagers,
and in particular meet the critical demand for fuelwood,
thereby diverting the use of cow dung to fertilizing agri-
cultural areas;
(c)  create the raw material resources for rural cottage
industries;
(d)  provide employment, especially to the underprivileged
classes; and
(e)  optimize revenue through commercial activities but without
jeopardizing other policy objectives.
1.22      Forestry Programs.  Since 1951, in common with all Government
Departments, forestry has been planned and implemented according to five-year
plans. Under the various planting programs of the Forest Department, the
following plantations have been raised so far in the State: plantations of
industrial importance (159,000 ha of which 64,300 ha in the years 1974-1978);
fuelwood plantations (11,000 ha); road side plantings (3,000 ha); reclamation
afforestation of ravines, including pasture development (105,000 ha); re-
afforestation of degraded forests and shelter belts (along rails and canals)
(3,200 ha); social forestry multi-product plantations (1,300 ha); and distri-
bution of tree seedlings to the general public (63 M plants). All afforesta-
tion and reclamation targets in the years 1974-1978 were attained or exceeded
(Annex 1, Table 1.2). For example, in 1977, 29,800 ha were planted against a
target of 25,400 ha. Total expenditures on forestry schemes in the Fifth Five
Year Plan (1974-1979) will have been approximately Rs 1,100 M, of which about
Rs 250 M in 1978/79.
Social Forestry
1.23      The main object of existing social forestry programs is to provide
forest goods and services in rural areas where they are most needed. This
objective is achieved by establishing multi-purpose tree plantations that
supply fuel and small timber to meet the basic requirements of rural communi-
ties; that provide food, fodder, shade, and the environmental stability that
is necessary for continued food production; and that generate income and
employment, both directly, by providing jobs in planting, harvesting, and
marketing, and indirectly, by providing raw materials for cottage industries.
The plantations are established in presently unproductive or unused land,
namely as strip planting in road, canal and rail reserves and block planting
in village commonland, wastelands, and degraded forest.
1.24      The planting of trees outside the forest areas is not new to Uttar
Pradesh. In 1938, a Forest Development Division was formed to create fuel
and fodder reserves and it established 2,300 ha before it was disbanded as



- 8 -
a wartime economy measure. In 1946, a Land Management Circle was created
to revive tree plantations along roads and canals. Such programs have, there-
fore, been in progress within the State for forty years. However, until
recently, the Forest Department did not concern itself with people-oriented
programs. It was not until 1976, following a Central Government initiative,
that the Social Forestry Program per se was launched. Three forest divisions
were assigned to the Program in 1976/77; the addition of a further division
has been sanctioned and six more existing divisions are to be transferred to
it in 1979. Shortage of funds and technical staff has kept the program very
small. During effectively two years, the four existing Social Forestry Divi-
sions have established about 300 ha of strip planting and 700 ha of block
planting. 1/
1/   This work was based on similar programs that had been initiated in
Gujarat much earlier. In that State 3,000 ha of strip planting has
been established since 1970, and 13,000 ha of village block planting
since 1974.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. General
Project Area
2.01      The Project would expand and strengthen the existing Social Forestry
program of UP and would be carried out over the forty UP Administrative
Districts located in the Gangetic Plains (Map 12140). These comprise over
70% of the State area. In all forty districts, the density of human popula-
tion is extremely high, ranging from 300/km2 in the western part to 400/km2
in the eastern part, and the forest cover is very small at 2% of the land,
resulting in a per capita availability of forests of only 0.01 ha. But there
is no shortage of land for tree planting. An estimated half a million hectares
of underutilized or unproductive land would be suitable for planting along
roads, canals, rails, and on village commonlands unsuitable for cropping, and
forest reserves in need of rehabilitation. 1/
Project Objectives
2.02      A large proportion of the 80 million rural people who live in the
Gangetic Plains of Uttar Pradesh lack the means to purchase fuelwood and
fodder which are no longer available in adequate quantities from the village
lands and remaining forest reserves. Furthermore, the shortage of forestry-
based raw material is a severe constraint to the development of cottage in-
dustries. Therefore, the proposed project would initiate a large social
forestry program which would initially provide paid employment to the poorest
section 2/ of the population (Antyodayas) by planting trees under the guidance
and control of the Social Forestry Directorate (SFD) primarily for use by the
villagers and for the development of cottage industries. The immediate
objectives of the project would be to:
(i)  plant 48,600 ha in public and village lands, including
a minimum of 3,000 ha of pilot community self-help plant-
ings in village commonlands, to demonstrate to the rural
population at large the benefits of afforestation; and
distribution of 8 million seedlings for planting on
private lands equivalent to 4,000 ha;
(ii)  secure the cooperation of the local population for Social
Forestry plantings by involving villages in planning and
execution; and
(iii)  build an organization required to support a long-term
social forestry program through on-the-job training of
foresters in community development.
1/   Apart from these an estimated 1.6 M ha of wastelands would also be
suitable.
2/   It is an established government policy to provide (unskilled) employment
to members of Antyodaya families, on a priority basis.



- 10 -
Further objectives of the Social Forestry Program would be for UP villages
to provide labor for establishing as soon as possible (para 2.14) their own
village forests with unpaid labor for ultimate distribution of fuelwood to
village members, with the assistance of statewide forest extension service.
General Description
2.03      During the five-year project period, based on availability of land
and status of trained staff,approximately 52,600 ha 1/ would be planted, com-
mencing with an annual program of 5,440 ha (11% of the total) and increasing
in successive years to 15,980 ha (30%) in year 5. Plantings would be done
by farmers in and around their fields and homesteads (8% of the area), by
villagers under self-help schemes (6%), and by SFD, in cooperation with the
local panchayats, along road sides (13%), canal sides (30%) and rail sides
(8%), and in village commonlands (9%) and degraded reserve forests (26%).
2.04      To support the proposed planting program funds would be provided for:
(i) establishment of new Social Forestry Divisions, in charge of
establishing a network of nurseries and of implementing the
project with rural community participation; to this end the
project would create special support units essential to
induce, foster, and monitor community awareness and parti-
cipation;
(ii)  construction of 90 new nurseries and rehabilitation of
50 existing ones, to provide one nursery for each of
the proposed Forest Ranges;
(iii) plantation protection, including digging of trenches,
employment of watchmen and fencing in areas of high
cattle pressure;
(iv)  strengthening of research activities, and construction
of seed testing and storage facilities at the research
centers; and
(v) training of project staff, including standard forestry
courses and special training in community development skills.
B. Detailed Features
Plantings including Farm Forestry
2.05      Since such an approach has been tested successfully elsewhere in
India (Gujarat State), the bulk of project plantings would be undertaken by
SFD with varying degrees of contribution by the local community (paras 4.01-
4.06). The aim would be to establish, with the consent of neighboring commun-
ities, village forests on commonlands, on road, rail or canal sides which fall
within the area of a village panchayat, or on degraded forest reserves in
1/   Annex 2, Table 2.4.



- 11 -
which villages previously had collection rights.  During the project, the
target would be to establish 2 to 10 hectares of multiple product plantation
for each participating village. By the end of the project, some 10,000
hectares of village forests, scattered throughout the Gangetic Plains of UP,
would convey to the rural people an obvious and convincing message that trees
can improve quickly enough the quality of rural life, which should stimulate
their own direct participation in planting.
2.06      Forest plantings would be particularly labor intensive (on average
230 man-days/ha for plantation establishment, 100 man-days/ha for protection,
and 20 man-days/ha for maintenance). In the case of paid-labor schemes SFD
would hire local labor in consultation with the panchayat. The poorest people
of the village belonging to the Antyodaya 1/ group would be employed by
priority, and would receive the official daily wage of Rs 5 per man-day.
Labor is abundant in the project area, and generally, little problem is ex-
pected in recruiting labor. However, some difficulty in hiring labor would
occur at the beginning of the rainy season, which is a period of intense agri-
cultural activities. To avoid this difficulty, the bulk of project activities
(at least 70%) would be carried out in the off-season (para 2.12).
2.07      Plantations would mostly be multi-purpose.  Although the focus
would be on the provision of fuelwood and fodder (75% of the area), the choice
of species to be planted would be decided in consultation with the local pop-
ulation. Other species have been included, therefore, to meet a variety of
other requirements of the rural population: in particular, fruit trees (5%)
and trees which produce raw material in short supply to cottage industries
(20%), such as trees for producing small timber, oilseed bearing trees and
trees for raising silkworms. Many of the chosen species would yield other
minor forest produce, such as bark for tannin and pulp for art paper. It
would also be desirable to plant shade trees mainly along the major roads.
These have been included and are mostly fruit bearing species. Finally,
palatable grasses for stall-feeding would be grown within the young planta-
tions to compensate the villagers for the loss of grazing land in the early
years of planting (para 2.11). Later, more abundant fodder would be avail-
able from tree foliage.
2.08      In village lands and degraded forest reserves, plantation design
models call basically for fruit trees at wide spacing (10m x 10m), and trees
for small timber, oilseed, or other minor forest produce at intermediate
spacing (5m x 5m), in a matrix of closely spaced fuelwood and fodder species
(2m x 3m). Fuelwood trees would occupy about 75% of the actual area available
for planting of which mixed fuelwood/fodder species would be about 40%. Road,
rail, and canal plantings would consist of 3 to 10 rows of trees, on strips 6
to 20 meters wide. Most of the strip plantings would also be multiple product
plantations. However, trees planted for silkworm rearing would necessarily be
in compact blocks. On the larger strips, along roads and canal paths, shade
trees which would also be fruit bearing would occupy the first row. Plantation
models are in Annex 2, Table 2.2.
1/   A Government survey is under way to identify the antyodaya families --
whose annual income from all sources does not exceed Rs 2,000 a year.



- 12 -
2.09       Roadside plantings would be confined to national and state highways
and main district roads, which have at least 6 meters available for planting
on each side, because the high protection cost would render uneconomic the
planting of narrower strips. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. Areas to be planted and distance from the road would be decided
after consultation with the Public Works Department. Only one side would be
planted at a time because of the need to keep some grazing areas open. Only
when the trees would be tall enough for cattle to graze underneath (after year
3 of planting), would the other side be planted.  Afforestation along canal
side would be confined to the main and branch canals because these have sub-
stantial wastelands on each side, and planting of canal sides should not be
done too close to the water edge. Assurances to this effect were obtained.
The areas to be planted and the distance between the water edge and the first
row of trees would be decided after consultation with the Irrigation Depart-
ment. Along railway lines, for security reasons, trees would be planted at
no less than 6 meters from the center of the track, with small to medium size
species.
2.10       Selection of plantation species has been determined by their adapt-
ability to the sites, their ability to coppice (for fuelwood production),
and their ability to provide products which are in short supply. About ten
species would provide the bulk of the planting stock, but a further 15 species
would be used in smaller quantities to allow for special site characteristics
or to meet specific requirements. Main fuelwood species would be Eucalyptus
hybrid, Babul (Acacia nilotica), and Prosopis (P. juliflora) on alkaline soil.
Sheesham (Dalbergia sisso) would be grown for small timber. Mango (Mangifera
indica) and Mahua (Madhuca latifolia) would be the main fruit and shade trees.
Saijan (Moringa oleifera) and Kanji (Pongamia pinnata) would be grown princi-
pally for their oilseeds. Mulberry (Morus alba) and Arjun (Terminalia arjuna)
would be grown for raising silkworms. Many of the above species would, in fact,
have several functions and uses. In particular, about 30% of the trees would
also give good leaf fodder. Mahua provides not only shade and fruits but its
edible flowers are regarded as a delicacy and its seeds are crushed for oil.
Saijan provides, in addition to oilseeds, good fodder, edible fruits and gum,
and its wood is used for producing art paper. Main tree species and their
use are given in Annex 2, Table 2.1.
2.11       Early returns from project activities in the form of abundant nutri-
tive fodder would be a strong incentive for villagers to participate in the
program. Therefore, a silvi-pastoral management system would be adopted,
whereby grasses and legumes would be planted in the interspaces of the plan-
tations. The necessary expertise exists within the Forest Department, which
has a research wing dealing exclusively with selection of fodder grasses,
seed testing, and trials. Establishment of silvi-pastures, has till now been
carried out mostly in the Hills by the Forest Department territorial divi-
sions. Under the project, assistance from Forest Department Silvi-pasture
Division would be sought and project staff would be sent for training at the
Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute (IGFRI) which is located in
U.P. DFOs and rangers of existing SFD divisions have already received such
training.



- 13 -
2.12      Planting areas would be surveyed well before the planting period;
soils would be examined with auger borers and their pH would be tested where
necessary; sizes and location of areas requiring special preparatory treatment
or planting techniques would be recorded. Land preparation for planting would
consist largely of spacing alignment and digging of planting pits, erection of
mounds, digging of trenches, and soil work for direct sowing early in the dry
season (February/March), so that excavated soil is weathered and planting
during the rains (July to September) can be completed quickly. Sowing of seed
takes place at the end of the dry season (June). Soils in strip planting
areas are generally good, although occasional borrow pits along road sides can
cause local waterlogging and necessitate the use of planting mounds. Much of
the village commonland and, to a lesser degree, the degraded forest consists
of usar (alkaline) soils. The plantation species that have been selected for
these sites grow on mild usars (up to pH 8.5) but in extreme areas (pll 8.5-
11.0), planting pits require treatment with gypsum or pyrites.
2.13      Tending operations would consist principally of replacing dead seed-
lings in the year following plantation establishment, weeding and hoeing
around planted trees (twice in the year of planting and twice in the following
year), and watering with the use of a tractor and water trailer during the dry
season (eight times in the first year and four times in the second year).
Grass cutting within plantations by villagers can reduce the need for weeding
but rarely eliminates it because grasses and weeds that are unpalatable to
stock would normally not be cut. Palatable grasses that would be sown within
the plantations to compensate villagers for the loss of grazing lands would
thus also contribute to lower the weeding costs.
2.14      Since the medium term goal in implementing the Social Forestry
program would be to have each village undertake its own plantings, community
self-help schemes would be tested during project implementation. Such schemes
would be introduced in villages which demonstrate initiative and local leader-
ship. The SFD would assist these communities by arranging the transport of
seedlings to the villages, ensuring supplementary water supplies, and provid-
ing fencing materials, if necessary.l/ Villagers would be asked to provide
free labor for land preparation and planting under the technical supervision
of SFD staff. In order to provide a strong incentive to the participating
communities, cost recovery by SFD for this component would be nominal (para
4.06). Assurances were obtained that self-help planting activities would be
tried in at least 1,500 villages with the goal of establishing 3,000 ha over
the project period (Annex 2, Table 2.5). No limit would be applied to such
development should villages' response prove positive.
2.15      In areas where land is abundant (along major canals) or areas which
are particularly difficult to manage from a technical standpoint (usar soils),
SFD would plant mulberry and arjun trees to benefit the poorest villagers
("Antyodaya families"). Blocks of mulberry trees (in good soils along canals)
and arjun trees (in bad usar soils) would be established. One hectare of
mulberry or two hectares of arjun trees would provide full-time employment to
a family of three working members. Each family would receive for their work
1/   With SFD tractor/water-trailer unit.



- 14 -
approximately Rs 300/month, or the minimum wage for three people working full
time, to maintain the plantation and to rear silkworms. In addition, for each
kilogram of cocoons produced, they would receive an additional production
incentive of about Rs 3.
2.16       Under the project about 1,500 ha of arjun and mulberry trees would
be planted by SFD, in consultation with the Tassar Research Institute in Ranchi
and the Small Industry Section of the Directorate of Handlooms and Textiles.
Provision of the required support facilities to silkworm activities has been
already sanctioned under the VIth Plan by GOUP and would be financed entirely
by Government.
2.17       In order to encourage private tree planting, seedlings raised in
SFD nurseries would be available at the nursery site -- temporary nursery
sites would be created for this purpose -- to individuals to plant on their
own land, in and around their fields and homesteads. To stimulate the demand
for seedlings, SFD staff, with advance notice to nearby villages, would carry
out tree planting demonstrations on land of farmers willing to participate.
Provision made for nursery costs include 8 million seedlings to be raised for
this purpose, which would be sufficient to plant at least 4,000 ha equivalent.
If local demand for trees should exceed the supply at any time during the
project period, the production of tree seedlings could be increased above the
projected targets in the following year. In order to avoid waste, a nominal
price of Rs 0.10 would be charged for polypot plants (mostly fuel species)
and of Rs 0.25 for pindi plants (such as fruit trees). The level of this
charge would be reviewed in the course of project execution.
Project Organization
2.18       The success of the proposed Social Forestry Program would depend to
a large extent on an efficient organization and suitably trained and equipped
staff to carry out the planned planting program in full cooperation with the
rural society. Therefore, under the project, provision would be made to ex-
pand and strengthen the Social Forestry Directorate through the establishment
of twenty-four new Social Forestry Divisions grouped in five Regions (details
in paras 4.07-4.10), and the creation of special support units including:
-    five Communication Units responsible for publicity work at
village level (para 2.21).
-    a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which would test experimental
designs for project implementation, assess villagers' accept-
ance of social forestry activities, and carry out a mid-term
evaluation of the project (para 4.12).
-    an Information, Planning and Reporting Unit responsible for
general planning and routine reporting and for introducing
new project implementation designs; it would include a sub-
unit responsible for preparing a follow-up project, including
studying the development of cottage industries based on forest
products. (See Chart 5.2 in Annex 5.)



- 15 -
Annual planting targets are geared to the number and implementation capacity
of the Social Forestry Divisions which would be operational in any given year.
The proposed rate of establishment of new divisions is based on the avail-
ability of trained staff, and on GOUP capacity to recruit and train new .
staff. The divisions are assumed to reach full operational capacity over
four years. In its year of establishment a division would have no planting
targets, its staff would prepare nurseries, provide extension services and
generally pave the way for the next year's planting season. In year 2 it
would achieve 60% of its planting capacity, in year 3, 80% and 100% at 500 ha
in year 4. Such phasing would average out in terms of physical planting
targets for each Forest Extension Worker (FEW) 15 ha in year 2, 20 ha in year
3 and 25 ha in year 4. These are reasonable tasks.
2.19      Provision would be for incremental staff cost, vehicles, equipment
and housing. Assurances were obtained that field staff, including forest
extension workers and community development foresters, would live in or near
areas assigned for their operation and for this purpose would be provided such
low-cost housing or rent allowances as necessary. The use of rented accommo-
dations would be encouraged wherever possible. However, in UP housing is
limited. Therefore, under the project, funds would be provided for the con-
struction of low-cost housing. In general, the project would provide new
housing for 40% of the project staff -- 75% for the lower paid staff. The
average house cost would be about US$2,000 equivalent and designs will be in
accordance with existing government standards, which apply to all government
departments. All office buildings would be rented; funds have been included
for office rents, and for office furniture and equipment. Because project
plantings would be scattered over a very large area, adequate transport for
field, monitoring and communication staff would be essential. Staff cars and
jeeps would thus be provided for staff whose responsibility encompasses at
least a whole division--i.e. an area of at least 50 km radius. Motorcycles
would be provided for staff (Rangers) whose area of responsibility covers a
range of between 25 to 50 km radius. Foresters and Forest Extension Workers
would each receive a bicycle. It is the practice of the Forest Department
to provide government-owned vehicles to field staff. However, under the
project, provision would be made for the sale of motorcycles and bicycles
to staff. To encourage the purchase and optimum use of motorcycles and bi-
cycles, GOUP would make available adequate credit facilities and travelling
allowances to field staff for this purpose. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
2.20      Because institution building would be a major objective of the
proposed project, project organization and training would form a very large
share of project investments (45% of project costs). The proportion of over-
heads in total costs of the Social Forestry Program would decline as it gained
momentum in the post-project period, and as SFD moved away progressively
from making plantings directly and become more a forest extension service,
providing advice and service to communities and individuals establishing
plantings on their own account. At the end of the project, it is estimated
that SFD would be achieving an annual planting program of 15,000 ha. It is
anticipated that 50,000 ha to 100,000 ha of planting annually could be made
within ten years. This would be equivalent to all UP villages undertaking



- 16 -
to plant a modest 0.5 to 1 ha every year under the guidance of SFD.  Assuming
such a progression, current overheads borne by GOUP would decrease from US$180
per ha planted in project year five to between US$50 and US$25 per ha in
project year ten. It would then represent between 12% and 6% of the total
costs of plantation establishment.
Communication/Publicity at Village Level
2.21      Project success would depend mainly upon the understanding and
participation of the rural population at large. To make them aware of the
dangers of deforestation, and of the benefits of afforestation as proposed by
the project, five Communication Units would be created at regional level (one
in each region). Assurances were obtained that at least three Communication
Units would be established no later than April 1, 1980; the remaining two
units to be established in project years two and three. The units would be
responsible for: (i) publicity and extension work at village level; (ii)
villagers' training; and (iii) introduction of more efficient wood burning
stoves. The designs for these already exist, but commercial distribution has
not yet been widely practiced (para 2.24). Under the project, funds would be
provided for staff, vehicles, including buses and publicity vans, audiovisual
equipment, films and operating costs of the units.
2.22      Villager training (for both men and women) would demonstrate the
benefits of social forestry activities through field visits: (a) initially
to areas that have been successfully converted into productive plantations
and when feasible, to villages which have engaged in social forestry activi-
ties; (b) to villages where more efficient wood burning stoves are being used;
and (c) to social forestry-based cottage industries. Provision would be made
for some 25,000 villagers a year, at full development, to spend one day under
training in the project area. Funds would be provided for a mid-day meal for
each participant.
2.23      Publicity/Extension.  Provision would be made for making social
forestry extension films to be shown to villagers by five mobile units.
The films would be made professionally to show:
-    the forests of UP as they were in past times, illustrating
their beneficial influence on villagers' quality of life;
-    the present reality, illustrating the negative consequence
on the population of deforestation;
-    the villagers' response to the problem, with emphasis on
people orientated solutions;
-    a technical extension section, illustrating in a very
simple way the planting and production practices, and
the construction and use of improved stoves; and



- 17 -
the future goal:  a reforested UP with streams, top soil,
ample village supplies of fuelwood, fodder, fruits, building
poles, and a shady environment in which people and their stock
can escape from the heat.
2.24      Introduction of More Efficient Wood Burning Stoves.  Improved stoves
which can double the efficiency of traditional village stoves, and therefore
require half the amount of fuel for producing the same amount of useful heat,
can be manufactured from local clay at a small cost (approximately US$5 per
stove, inclusive of labor costs). The Associate Director of the Project's
Training, Research and Communication Unit would establish continuing liaison
with the Planning, Research and Action Institute, the organization primarily
concerned with the design and promotion of such improved stoves in UP; and
arrange through the Communication Units and Village Forest Committees (para
4.04) for the construction of improved stoves to serve as demonstration within
a selection of villages in the project area, as a charge to the project. Pro-
motion of the use of the stoves would be through continuing practical demon-
stration by Communication Unit personnel and by FEWs. In order to familiarize
FEWs with the design and use of improved stoves, and to serve as a demonstra-
tion to other villagers, one such stove would also be built in each FEW house,
in addition to stoves built in villagers' houses. During negotiations it was
agreed that stoves would be built and demonstrated in at least 1,000 villages
over the project period.
Nurseries
2.25      There are 148 existing forest nurseries within the project area but
many of them are small and cannot be extended or are inappropriately sited to
meet project requirements. Therefore, 90 new nurseries would be established
and 50 existing ones would be redesigned and expanded so that there would be
one nursery in each planting unit or forest range. In addition, temporary
nursery sites would be established in appropriate locations close to the
plantation sites, or for distribution of seedlings to the population.
2.26      The total number of plants required for the planting program would be
about 85 million. Some 25 million plants (30% of the total) would be produced
by direct sowing within plantation sites. The remaining 60 million (70%) would
be raised in the nurseries. These figures include a 15% allowance for mortali-
ties in the nursery and during transport to the planting site and an additional
10% allowance for replacement of on-site mortalities in the year following the
plantation's establishment. (A 30% mortality rate was assumed for seedlings
used in private and community self-help schemes.) Most nursery stock would be
planted when less than one year old, but trees of some species would be planted
at two years, after they have attained adequate size. Considerable experience
exists among Forest Department personnel in raising all of the species to be
used in the project. Seeds from selected strains would be obtained locally
through existing Departmental channels or from reputable seed suppliers. Three
seed testing units, to be established under the project (para 2.30), would
ensure that only seeds of high quality are used. Provision would be made for
capital and operating costs of nurseries; in particular, funds would be pro-
vided for one tubewell and for one tractor with ancillary equipment at each
nursery site.



- 18 -
Plantation Protection
2.27      Livestock population (principally cattle, buffalo and, to a lesser
extent, goats) within the project areas is very high at 150/km2 and protec-
tion of plantations against browsing, trampling and breakage is essential if
adequate plantations are to be established. Three different types of perimeter
protection would be used, the choice dependent upon the intensity of stock
pressure and the area to be protected. They are: (i) live hedges, which are
fast growing thorny or unpalatable shrubs and trees that are sown preferably
in the year preceding plantation establishment; (ii) linear trenches, 45 cm
deep and 60 cm wide, with live hedges sown on the soil thrown onto the
plantation side; and (iii) two-strand barbed wire fences.
2.28      In areas of low stock pressure, live hedges would be used.  In high
pressure areas of village land and degraded reserved forest, plantations would
be protected principally by trenches. Unfortunately, trenches cannot be used
in strip planting areas because they interfere with road and canal path drain-
age. The high pressure side of strip planting would therefore be protected
by fencing; while the side which borders areas that are not normally grazed,
such as cultivated land, would be protected by densely planted live hedges.
Most fenced areas would be patrolled by watchmen, each of whom would be
responsible for aDproximately 10 km of strip-planting.
2.29      The cost per unit area for fencing strip-planting areas is high
because of the long narrow shape of areas to be protected. It is expected
that the direct involvement of some rural communities in social forestry
plantings, and the education of local people by project Communication Units,
and their sharing in project benefits would foster increasing cooperation of
villagers in plantation protection so that the need for barriers would pro-
gressively diminish. A similar strategy is being employed in Gujarat with an
increasing measure of success. In the meantime, the research program would be
directed to devising cheaper and more effective means of plantation protection.
Research
2.30      The research component of the project would consist of two sub-
components: (1) seed testing units and (2) field research units. The program
would be directed by the Assistant Director of Research, to be based at Kanpur,
under the supervision of the Conservator, Research and Development Circle and
the overall direction of the Director of Social Forestry. Four research sta-
tions would be established, three of which would be involved in the expansion
of existing stations at Kanpur, Mathura, and Gorakhpur; the fourth, at Azamgarh,
would be entirely new. Three stations (Kanpur, Mathura and Azamgarh) would be
under the control of a Range Officer, Research, and cover both seed testing
and field research; the fourth (Gorakhpur would be under the control of a
Deputy Ranger and cover field research only. The existing seed testing unit
at Kanpur would be expanded as the principal testing station and supplied with
X-ray equipment. New and less sophisticated seed testing facilities would be
installed at Mathura and Azamgarh. Each unit would have facilities for seed
storage at constant temperature and employ a botanist and chemist (Deputy
Ranger grade).



- 19 -
2.31      The four research stations are well located to provide good geo-
graphical coverage of UP. Each of them is within reasonable distance of a
university, from which additional advice and assistance could be obtained
if required. Each regional sub-program would be under the immediate control
of a Deputy Ranger. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
research program to meet the requirements of social forestry would be for-
mulated by the Forest Department and finalized in consultation with IDA by
December 31, 1979. In essence, the research program would be concerned with
increasing efficiency and productivity and lowering costs of the project. In
particular, it would include devising cheaper means of plantation protection.
It would include an outline of its objectives, the approaches to be adopted,
manpower requirements and target dates for completion of individual studies.
Training
2.32      To staff the newly created SFD field divisions and support units,
a large number of staff would need to be recruited and trained; about 32
Assistant Directors, 70 Rangers, 362 Foresters/Deputy Rangers, and 502 Forest
Extension Workers. Senior staff (Division Directors and above) required for
the project would be obtained by transfer and promotion of existing forest
officers.
2.33      The Forest Department has already applied to the central government
for the allocation to UP of 32 ACF (Assistant Directors) graduates over the
next three years. Funds would be provided under the project for their train-
ing at the Indian Forest College, in Dehra Dun, or the State Forest Service
College, in Byrnihat. These ACF's would serve in the support units of the SFD.
2.34      Because training of rangers in Indian colleges has been insuffi-
cient to meet the growing demands of the States, GOI has allowed the States
to start their own training of rangers. Fifty-five rangers will thus be
trained annually at the UP Forestry School in Haldwani, thirty-five of whom
would be assigned to the project over each of the next two years. Special
courses would be added to the curriculum to familiarize Social Forestry rangers
with rural and community development.
2.35      The skills and requirements of Social Forestry staff, especially
field staff, are narrower than those of conventional foresters in fields such
as silviculture and engineering, but much broader in subjects such as human
sociology and extension. Therefore, the bulk of the project middle staff need
not have received the conventional forestry training. Rather, the positions
of foresters would be filled up by agricultural graduates who are already
familiar with the rural society; there are many such graduates presently
seeking employment. They would be given a six months' pre-service course in
plantation establishment before they were assigned as community development
foresters to the field. Together with conventional foresters assigned to SFD,
they would receive in-service training in community relations and extension
techniques at one of the twenty-one Extension Training Centers of the Rural
Development Department. After a period of field work, all staff with an agri-
culture background would be recalled for a further one-year training at the
State School before they could be promoted to higher levels.



- 20 -
2.36      Forest Extension Workers (Forest Guard rank) would initially be
trained at any of the three existing Forest Guard Schools located in the
Plains. They would be given an initial three-month course, to be followed
by further training when pressure to recruit and train new staff has eased.
New curricula would be devised to fit the needs of Social forestry and would
include training in improved stove building.
2.37      Training middle level project personnel should not cause absorptive
capacity difficulties, as it has been proposed that funds be provided under
the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan for an expansion of the State training
facilities, sufficient to cater to the requirements of foresters and rangers
for SFD and the rest of the Forest Department. However, the plan does not
provide additional facilities for Forest Guard Schools, some of which are
run down and poorly equipped. Therefore, provision would be made for the
establishment of two new schools which would train SFD staff on priority
basis, and of which one would form a nucleus for a new Social Forestry
Institute to be established whenever required to cater to an expanded social
forestry program.
2.38      The project would also provide ten short-term fellowships for staff
of ACF level and above to study social forestry schemes in other States or
countries. In addition, two-year fellowships would be provided for two selec-
ted staff of ACF or DCF level to undertake university courses of special
relevance to social forestry. They would join the teaching staff at Haldwani
on their return and help to ensure that future courses take adequate account
of the full range of Social Forestry development needs. Two additional
fellowships would be provided for selected staff to undertake training in
micro-economics and project analysis. They would, on their return, contribute
respectively to preparation of a follow-up project and mid-term evaluation of
the proposed project. During negotiations GOUP undertook to ensure that those
sent for overseas study tour would remain within the SFD for at least three
years, and those sent for long-term overseas training for at least five years.



- 21 -
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      A five-year project is proposed.  Its costs are estimated at
Rs 400.0 M (US$46.5 M), very little of which is.expected to involve foreign
exchange for direct imports (research equipment US$0.06 M, and fellowships
US$0.12 M). Duties and taxes included in total costs are estimated at Rs 15 M
(US$1.7 M). Details of costs, summarized below, are in Annex 5.
Table III.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATE
Million    Million   % of Base
Rs         US$        Cost
Project Organization
Staff and Operating Expenses                 93.9       10.9       27.8
Vehicles and Equipment                       19.2        2.2        5.7
Buildings and Housing                        28.4        3.3        8.4
Subtotal                                  141.5       16.4       41.9
Training and Fellowships                      9.6        1.1        2.9
Research and Seed Testing                     2.8        0.3        0.8
Nurseries, including Farm Forestry
and Self-Help Pilot Scheme                 36.2        4.2       10.7
Plantings
Canal                                        28.0        3.3        8.3
Road                                          9.3        1.1        2.8
Railway                                       5.9        0.7         1.8
Forest Reserve                               12.9        1.5        3.8
Village land                                  5.2        0.6         1.5
Maintenance of Plantings                      5.4        0.6         1.6
During Project Period
Subtotal                                66.7       7.8        19.8
Protection of Plantings                      80.8        9.4       23.9
Total Base Costs                            337.6       39.2      100.0
Physical Contingencies                       11.7        1.4         3.5
Price Contingencies                          50.7        5.9       15.0
Grand Total                                 400.0       46.5      118.5



- 22 -
3.02      As the project represents the initial phase of a much larger
planting program, institution building inevitably represents a very large
share (45%) of project investments (para 2.20). Cost estimates are based
on actual costs for similar nursery, planting and protection techniques at
November 1978 prices, and on findings of the mission during appraisal.
Physical contingencies on Housing, Research and Seed Testing, Nurseries,
Plantings, and Protection have been added at 5% to meet unforeseen expend-
itures. Price contingencies totalling 15% of base costs, calculated in
accordance with Bank estimates of future price movements in India, 1/ are
also included.
B. Proposed Financing
3,03      An IDA Credit of US$23.0 M, representing 51% of the total project
costs net of duties and taxes, is proposed. The balance would be contributed
by GOUPe  The credit would be made to GOI on standard terms and would be
channelled to GOUP on GOI's standard terms and arrangements for development
assistance to the states. During negotiations, GOUP confirmed that the
project has been included in the State's draft Sixth Plan with sufficient
allocation to cover the cost of the project until the end of the Plan period
(March 31, 1983), and that the remaining requirement will be provided in the
subsequlent Plan.  GOUP also confirmed that the amount required for the cur-
rent year has been included in the 1979/80 Budget and that information regard-
ing the following years will be provided whenever requested by the Association.
3.04      In order to ensure an early start of the project, and speedy and
effective implementation thereafter, retroactive financing would be provided
from January 1, 1979 to the date of Credit signing for: (i) nursery expendi-
tures incurred to provide planting stock and advance work for land preparation
and plantation protection for the 1979 planting season, which starts in July;
(ii) training costs for additional staff who need to be in place by the plant-
ing season; and (iii) tractors and vehicles required for the staff to carry
out field operations. The amount of retroactive financing of the proposed
Credit is not expected to exceed US$0.5 million.
C. Procurement
3.05      Direct plantation works (US$21.4 M), including nursery expenditures,
planting and protection works, would be done manually, would be scattered over
a wide area (in total, 140 nurseries and 10,000 planting sites), and would be
carried out over different periods of time. Furthermore, planting works would
be done as much as possible with community participation. Therefore, contracts
following competitive bidding would not be practical. Nursery works, including
the production of seedlings, would be carried out by force account by the
I./ Currently estimated at an annual rate of 5% p.a.



- 23 -
Forest Department. Land preparation, planting and maintenance would also be
carried out by the Forest Department with varying degree of participation from
the local communities. However, required material such as barbed wire, tools
and fertilizers would be procured under local competitive bidding. Contracts
for civils works for about 1,400 houses, 140 nursery sheds, two training
schools, and one research building (US$2.4 M) would be small and also dispersed
in time and place; they would not, therefore, be suitable for ICB procedures.
Contracts for most of the works would be let following local competitive bid-
ding, advertised locally, and in accordance with established local procedures
that are satisfactory to IDA. However, experience has shown that remote works
may not always attract suitable bids. Therefore, some works, not in excess of
30% of the total civil works would be carried out by force account. In both
cases design and supervision of housing and shed construction would be carried
out by the Forest Department. Field vehicles (US$1.95 M) would be purchased
in small quantities over three years and would be widely dispersed in rural
areas. As adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of
paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles
of types already used by Government departments. Procurement would be by
local competitive bidding under existing government procedures, which are
acceptable to IDA. Imported equipment would be required in small lots and
over two years and would not, therefore, be suitable for procurement under ICB
procedures. These items and other miscellaneous equipment (US$0.35 M) would
be bulked whenever possible and procured through local competitive bidding.
The balance of project costs (US$20.4 M) would be mostly staff salaries and
related expenditures (US$11.1 M), training (US$1.1 M), land cost (US$0.9 M)
and contingencies (US$7.3 M).
D. Disbursements and Audits
3.06      Disbursements under the Credit would cover:
(a) 100% of the cost of training (US$1.15 M);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, or
70% of locally procured vehicles and equipment (US$1.95 M);
(c)  50% of expenditures for civil works (US$1.25 M);
(d)  50% of staff salaries (US$5.65 M), which is equivalent
to 55% of incremental staff salaries;
(e) 50% of direct planting expenditures (US$11.00 M).
(f)  Unallocated (US$2.00 M).
Direct planting expenditures include: nursery costs, planting, protection
and maintenance of plantings.



- 24 -
3.07       Disbursements for direct planting expenditures would be made quar-
terly against statements of expenditures certified by the Director of Social
Forestry. During negotiations assurances were obtained that SFD would sub-
mit quarterly Planting Progress Reports, relating expenditures on nurseries
and planting, with physical progress of work. Disbursements for all other
force account work, salaries, local training, petty contracts costing less
than Rs 100,000, and other procurement involving expenditures of less than
Rs 50,000 for vehicles and equipment and for which it would not be practical
to submit documents, would be against statements of expenditures certified
by the Director of Social Forestry. Full documentation would be required for
all other disbursements. For the purpose of disbursements against statements
of expenditure, the Forest Department's institutional and staffing capabili-
ties, as well as budgeting, accounting -- both financial and physical --,
internal control and auditing -- both internal and external, are adequate
and satisfactory (Annex 4).
3.08      At negotiations assurances were obtained that the Forest Department
would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under the project. These
would be audited annually for each fiscal year in accordance with sound audit-
ing principles consistently applied. Accounts would be submitted for audit
within six months of the end of the financial year, audited not later than
nine months after the end of such year, and the audited reports submitted
promptly to IDA. Certificates of expenditures would also be audited once each
six months and the reports furnished to IDA. Such reports would show, inter
alia, that the funds withdrawn were used for the purpose intended, that goods
have been received or work performed, and that payments have been made.



- 25 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
4.01      Given the magnitude of the afforestation program required to meet
the rural energy needs, part of the responsibilities for tree planting and
management, especially in scattered areas of unused land, will have to be
transferred from the Government to the rural communities. With this objective
in mind, most project field activities would be undertaken by Government in
cooperation with those villages who would be willing to participate in the
planning of tree planting and their protection. These villages would progres-
sively become responsible for the management and expansion of their village
forest. This will require reforms of the foresters' role and a new style
forestry organization; the Social Forestry Organization, presently working
under the Addl. CCF Planning, would be expanded and staff would have broadened
functions enabling them to work effectively with the rural communities (para
4.07).
Community Participation
4.02      In most public lands to be planted under the project, nearby villages
have had customary rights of use: cattle grazing on commonlands and on road/
rail/canal sides, and fuelwood and fodder collection in forest reserves.
Therefore, under the proposed project, planting of these lands would be
undertaken only with the consent of these villages, except that in areas where
villagers' response would not be forthcoming, some plantings might be initiated
by SFD for demonstration purposes. In practice, stretches of road/rail/canal
sides and areas of reserve forests would be demarcated and allocated to
specific villages which have no commonlands. Decisions such as whether, where
and what kind of species to plant, and how to organize the work, would be a
cooperative effort between the Social Forestry Directorate and the village
which would benefit from the plantation.
4.03      The Community Development Forester (CDF), who would have attended
training sessions in community development skills and community relations
would assume the mediator role. His specific responsibilities would include:
informing the rural community of the program and its benefits; clarifying
Government's and community's responsibilities; negotiating and signing agree-
ment between Government and the villages; on-the-job training of villagers in
planting and maintenance; motivating villagers to provide voluntary labor; and
finally encouraging them to plant trees in and around their homesteads. In
this work and in physically implementing the program, he would be assisted by
two Forest Extension Workers (FEW). The first contact of the FEW with the
village leader (President of the village panchayat) and the village community
would be through the Village Level Worker (VLW) of the Rural Development
Department, who is well known and usually trusted by the villagers. The VLW
is already burdened with numerous tasks of community development (Agriculture,
Extension, Minor Irrigation Programs, Animal Husbandry, Health, Collection of
Statistics, etc.) and it is acknowledged that he could play only a limited
role in tree planting activities.



- 26 -
4.04       Each participating village (Gaon Sabha) would set up a Village
Forest Committee, through a resolution of the village panchayat (Gaon
Panchayat). 1/ Membership would, however, not be restricted to the existing
panchayat members.  The Committee Chairman would be the village leader
(Pradhan). Other members would comprise villagers with particular interest
and initiative. Participation by women and representatives of lower castes
would be encouraged. The FEW, VLW, the panchayat secretary and the Patawari
(Reventie Officer) would also be members. The Community Development Forester,
or in his absence the FEW, would be the Secretary and convenor of the
Committee. The tasks of the committee would be to select the area and
species to be planted, negotiate agreements with SFD, participate in organiz-
ing and supervising planting activities, protection and later harvesting of
the plantation and distribution of produce in agreed amounts among villagers.
4.05       Each village would enter into an agreement with SFD.  The formula-
tiofl of a pro forma for such an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
conditiorn of Credit effectiveness. The agreement would provide for various
degrees of involvement by the participating village and for various benefit
sharing arrangements. Generally it would provide for a transition period
during which SFD would be responsible for managing the plantation. As and
when villagers have demonstrated their ability and willingness to manage the
forests by themselves, the village plantings, whether established by SFD with
paid labor or under self-help schemes, would become panchayat-managed forests
as in the Hills (para 1.16). In the light of experience gained by the Forest
D)epartment in the Hills, the introduction of panchayat-managed forests in
the Plains where people are not "tree conscious" would have to be made pro-
gressively. The target would be to bring each year, commencing in year 3,
10X of the acreage partly or wholly under panchayat management.
4.06       Varying degrees of local participation envisaged would be for plan-
ning (selection of area and species), provision of labor for protection (in-
volving digging trenches or providing a watchman), planting, maintenance and
protection works, and supervision and labor for plantation management (involv-
ing watering, replacement of dead seedlings, thinning and harvesting). The
balance of costs (incurred by SFD) would be recovered from the village plant-
ings at the time of harvest (para 5.03). In cases where the villagers would
provide all labor free (self-help), cost recovery by SFD would be nominal.
Only the costs of inputs (seedlings and eventually fencing material) would be
recovered.
Social Forestry Directorate
4.07       The existing Social Forestry Organization comprises four Social
Forestry divisions, covering eight administrative districts, under an officer
of Conservator rank who is responsible to an Additional Chief Conservator
of the Forest Department. Under the project, a Social Forestry Directorate
(SFD) would be established as a separate wing of the Forest Department directly
1/   Village panchayats are elected councils of 7 to 15 members that govern
each village. An average village comprises about 150 families.



- 27 -
under the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF) (see Chart 5.1). The SFD
Director would be of Additional CCF rank. On June 1, 1979 six existing
forest divisions which were responsible for road, rail and canal plantings in
the Plain areas would be transferred to the SFD. Five new divisions would be
created in r- oject year one, six in year two and seven in year three. In
project year four all divisions would be fully staffed and operational. SFD
would then comprise five regions under Regional Directors (Conservators) and
twenty-eight divisions under Divisional Directors (Deputy Conservators). Each
division would cover one or several administrative districts, and over 3,000
villages on average (see Chart 5.2). Three new support units would be created
within SFD, each one headed by an Associate Director of Conservator rank: one
responsible for planning, information, reporting and preparation of a follow-up
project; one for training, research and communication; and one for monitoring
and evaluation.
4.08      Each Divisional Director (see Chart 5.3, Annex 5) would have one
Assistant Director Planning who would answer to the Central Planning, Informa-
tion and Reporting Division, and would, in addition to routine planning and
reporting tasks, be in charge of preparing operational and financial plans
for each village plantation (para 5.03) and of introducing alternative project
implementation designs at village level. Each division would comprise five
territorial ranges headed by a Ranger who would supervise an average of four
units: one with a deputy ranger in charge would be responsible for the
nurseries; three with a Community Development Forester (CDF) assisted by two
Forest Extension Wotkers (FEW) would be responsible for maintaining permanent
liaison with the participating villages and individuals, and for physically
implementing the program. CDF and FEW who would be the main extension agents
would receive special training in extension techniques and community relations.
Furthermore, new CDFs would be recruited among unemployed agriculture graduates
who are familiar with rural development problems.
4.09      Technical staff required for project implementation would be as
follows:
Total
Existing   Transfer   Required   at Full Dev.
State Director              -          -            1           1
Regional Director           1           1           3           5
Associate Director          -           -           3            3
Divisional Director         4           6          18          28
Assistant Director          -           -          32          32
Rangers                    21         31          88          140
Deputy Rangers             83          17         40          140
Foresters (CDF)             -         26         424          450
FEW                       129        225         546          900
New staff at all levels would be obtained by direct recruitment and training,
and by promotion, as follows:



- 28 -
Staff                     Required   =  Promotion   +  Recruitment
Assistant Director                32             -                32
Ranger                            88             18               70
Forester/Deputy Ranger         464 + 18         120             362
Forest Extention Worker        546 +120         164             502
Outstanding "malis", forest guards who did not receive formal training, would
be promoted to fill about 25% of the FEW positions. Recruitment and training
of all other staff have been discussed in paras 2.32 to 2.38.
4.10      The number of field staff required has been estimated by assuming
that at full capacity (i.e. four years after the creation of a new division)
(a) one CDF would successfully promote the program in up to ten villages each
year; and (b) one FEW would supervise the work of up to five villages, or an
annual planting program of about 25 hectares every year; and with the help of
one newly recruited FEW "trainee" would assist up to 25 villages (about 125 hla)
in maintenance and management of the plantation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      Because the project would be somewhat innovative in nature and
would require adjustment in the course of project execution, a strong Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit (NEU) would be essential. The unit would be estab-
lished directly under the Director of Social Forestry and at full development
it would be headed by an officer of Associate Director level. The head of the
unit would be assisted by subunits headed by a sociologist, with experience
in extension work, a project economist, and a chief of a multidisciplinary
survey team, and backed by a data processing team headed by a statistician.
The survey team would comprise five units of one field supervisor (Ranger
level) and five field investigators each of Dy. Ranger level (i.e. one unit
per region). While regular data collecting and reporting would be carried
out by the Information Staff, MEU staff would carry out on-the-spot checkup
in the field for verifying the accuracy of data and the quality of work.
From CDF's reports, MEU visits to sample villages, adhoc studies, surveys or
village case studies they would assess villagers receptivity to the project,
and the progress made in fostering local initiative. They would monitor the
various project implementation designs which would be introduced by the Plan-
ning Branch. In particular they would follow up closely on the implementation
of the self-help test cases, assess their effectiveness, promptly inform man-
agement about findings and suggest improvements for further replication.
Expansion of self-help schemes or other policy or investment shift required
would be decided following an interim project evaluation to be carried out
jointly by GOUP and IDA at the end of project year 3. Finally, from data
available from the accounting unit, the economist would monitor planting and
protection costs, and periodically run rates of return for the different types
of plantations. This would be especially important for difficult sites where
soil requires special treatment, or where high human and cattle pressure
requires heavy investments in protection. The cut-off rate of return would
be 10%. At the end of project year three, an evaluation team would be added
to carry out the interim evaluation of the project. Assurances were obtained



- 29 -
that the Monitoring Unit would be established by April 1, 1980 at the latest,
and that a work program would be submitted to IDA for review no later than
June 30, 1980,
Project Coordination
4.12      Coordination of Social Forestry activities with the programs of
other Government agencies at State and District level would be achieved through
the committees described below. SFD field staff would be instructed to coordi-
nate closely with officers of other government departments in their day-to-day
activities at village level, particularly with the village level workers.
(a) The State Policy Review Committee would be established under
this project to ensure the coordination between the various
departments involved and to determine overall policy. It
would be expected to meet once every year and would be chaired
by the Minister of Forests. Members would include: the
Secretaries for Forests, Finance, Planning, Public Works,
Irrigation and Rural Development, the Chief Conservator of
Forests, and representatives of GOI Ministries of Agriculture
and Railway and of other concerned agencies. The State Director,
SFD, would be the secretary of the committee.
(b) The Project Implementation Committee would be set up under the
chairmanship of the Secretary of Forests. It would comprise
the Chief Conservator of Forests, the SFD State, Regional and
Associate Directors, representatives from Planning, Finance and
other concerned Departments of the State Government, and of the
Railways (Central Agency). The State SFD Director would be
its Secretary. The committee's main task would be to: imple-
ment decisions taken by the State Policy Review Committee,
approve annual implementation plans, ensure coordination of
the project with the activities of other functional units of
the Forest Department and with the irrigation, public works,
and railways, and review progress on preparation of the
follow-up project. It would be expected to meet once every
six months.
(c) District Level Committees would be established under the pro-
ject comprising the District Collector (Chairman), President
of the District Panchayat (Zilla Parishad), District Develop-
ment Officer and representatives from Government departments
covering irrigation, public works, industries, animal husbandry,
agriculture, and horticulture. The Social Forestry Divisional
Director would act as convener and secretary. The committee's
main tasks would be to coordinate the activities of the various
departments concerned, assist with selecting priority areas for
planting, review the district program progress; identify con-
straints to project implementation and suggest remedies, advise
on how to ensure villager and panchayat participation, and
assist in drawing up village/SFD contracts. The committee
would meet at least once every 4 months.
4.13      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the above
committees would be established by December 31, 1979.



- 30 -
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Yields and Production
5.01       The project plantation areas would produce:  (a) fuelwood, from
trees which would be coppiced at five yearly intervals from age 6 until 26;
(b) small timber from trees grown on thirty year rotation; (c) leaf fodder
from mixed fuelwood and fodder trees (about 30% of all trees); (d) grass
fodder from naturally regenerated and sown fodder grasses; (e) leaves for
raising silkworms; (f) edible fruits; (g) oilseeds; (h) bark for tanning;
(i) pulp for art paper; and (j) edible flowers. Yields and annual production
at full development, as well as total project output for each type of produce,
are given in the table below. More details are given in Annex 2, Table 2.3.
The fuelwood yields given in metric tons correspond to mean annual increments
ranging from 5-6 m3/ha for Babul and Prosopis to 10-12 m3/ha for Eucalyptus
and Leucaena. The data on which the estimates are based have principally
been derived from experience in block plantations or natural forests,
although higher yields might be obtained from strip plantations of a limited
number of rows because of better access to soil moisture and to sunlight.
Estimated Yields and Production
Yields /a at         Annual Production         Total
Full Development   at Full Development         Production
mt/ha/yr               '000 mt              '000 mt
Fuelwood                                                172.4                 4,710
Babul-Prosopis               2.9-3.5
Eucalyptus-Leucaena          5.8-7.0
Timber                          3.5                                             380
Leaf Fodder                     8.0                     109.4                 3,165
Grass /b                        3                        91.2                 2,780
Fruits                                                    5.5                   140
Mango                         5
Others                       2.10
Oil Seeds                       1.2-4                    21.1                   360
Leaves for Silkworms           10.0                      14.9                   370
Bark for Tanning                0.5                       7.3                   100
Pulp for Art Paper              1.2                       0.5                    10
Edible Flowers                  5.6                       5.0                   110
/a   Yields refer to the harvest from a fully stocked hectare of a pure
plantation.
/b   Not incremental.  It is assumed that production from sown grasses within
the plantation would just compensate for the lost production of natural
grasses.



- 31 -
Cost Recovery by SFD
5.02      It is GOUP's intention to recover all plantation costs of its Social
Forestry Program, including SFD's capital and operating costs over 30 years
without interest. However, given the poverty of most beneficiaries, this
may be ambitious. Consequently, at negotiations assurances were obtained
that SFD would recover as a minimum only the labor and material costs of plant-
ing and that technical supervision and overheads costs could be met by GOUP
much in the same way as agricultural extension service costs are now met.
5.03      In order to ensure cost recovery in accordance with the above prin-
ciple, SFD Planning Branch would prepare an operational and financial plan
for each village plantation before work is started. This plan would specify
the sharing of produce between the village and SFD. The detailed cost
recovery arrangements would be embodied in the agreement between SFD and the
village (para 4.05).
5.04      The operational plan for each village plantation would be such as
to ensure planting of sufficient commercial species to generate funds to meet
SFD's recovery goal. Analysis of illustrative plantation models (results in
Annex 3, Table 3.1) have shown that a mix of approximately 70% fuel/fodder
and 30% commercial species, from which all fuelwood and fodder would accrue
to villagers and all commercial produce to SFD, would yield sufficient returns
to meet current GOUP cost recovery objectives. In practice, plans would vary
from one village plantation to the other to suit local conditions and villagers'
needs. To ensure that the operational and financial plans would be prepared
in a manner satisfactory to IDA, it was agreed that SFD would forward to IDA
for comments no later than April 1, 1980 a sample of ten such plans.
Sharing of Produce between Villagers
5.05      The sharing of produce between villagers would also vary from place
to place, to accommodate the preferences of the villagers, and also because
during this pilot phase of the program various sharing arrangements would be
tried out. In any case, the sharing arrangements would be discussed with
the villagers at the planning stage and incorporated into the agreement. SFD
staff would be responsible to see that actual sharing is done in accordance
with the provisions of the agreement. As an illustration, a proposed sharing
arrangement is detailed below.
(a) Grass, leaf fodder, and mahua flowers, and fruits (from
village commonland plantations) would be collected by
the villagers free of charge, - grass and mahua flowers
at any time, leaf fodder and fruits at a specified time -
leaf fodder and fruit collection would be organized and
supervised by the Village Forest Committee (para 4.04),
under the guidance of SFD staff. When the demand exceeded
the supply, the Committee would issue passes to the
Antyodayas families by priority.
(b) Harvesting of wood would be undertaken by the villagers and
organized and supervised by the Village Forest Committee, under
the control of SFD staff. All villagers would be equally



- 32 -
entitled to a supply of fuelwood, either free or at a nominal
price, which would be calculated as a fixed number of headloads
per household.  The plantation would be cut, preferably in
equal lots every year over a five year coppice rotation. For
example, a village forest of 5 ha would be cut in 1 ha lot
every year, which would be sufficient to supply about 6 head-
loads of 25 kg each to each family of the village, an increase
of about 20% of their average consumption.
5.06       If the villagers specifically requested it, their share of planta-
tion produce could also be auctioned in the presence of SFD staff and the
Village Forest Committee. The proceeds of the sale would then be credited
to a special 'forest fund', under the control of the District Collector --
the official link between Government and the panchayats. Such funds would
be released only for village development projects which are required by the
villagers, recommended by SFD, and approved by the District Collector.
Marketing Arrangements
5.07       All produce would be harvested in accordance with the working
plan prepared by the Forest Department. Timber would be sold through the
UP Forest Development Corporation, and other forest produce such as fruits,
pulpwood, silk cocoons, bark and oilseeds, would be auctioned by SFD as
is current practice. Some of this produce would be suitable for processing
by cottage industries at village level, in which case purchasers would pay
a royalty to the SFD for the right to collect such produce. In view of the
acute shortage of forest product in the project area, no marketing difficulty
is foreseen. Project output of industrial produce would be small. For
example, at full development in year 16, project output of oilseeds would be
only 0.6% of India's production of all minor oilseeds; and production of
silk cocoons would be 2% of India's total production. Most marketing con-
tractors would be very small; and the produce would often be transported on
rickshaw and camel back to nearby urban centers and small-scale industries.
Financial Impact of the Project on the GOUP Budget
5.08       As discussed in para 5.02, the proceeds from sale of produce by SFD
is expected to be sufficient to pay off total project investments in 30 years
without interest. The corresponding cost recovery index 1/ for the project
over the entire period (35 years) would be 31% at 10% interest rate.  This
index is considered satisfactory given that the proposed project would aim
primarily at meeting some of the basic needs (fuelwood and cattle feed) of a
poor segment of the community. Also, a primary objective of the project is
to demonstrate the value of such plantings and thus motivate rural people to
participate more directly in tree planting schemes by providing labor or other-
wise meeting planting costs which in itself would reduce the cost to GOUP.
Incremental recurrent costs after completion of the project, to be met from
GOUP budget sources, for staff in charge of expanding the social forestry
program would be about Rs 23.6 M (US$2.7 M) annually or 0.2% of the state's
recurrent budget.
1/   Ratio of NPV of financial returns to Government to the NPV of financial
costs of Government.



- 33 -
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
General
6.01      Over a five-year period, the project would set the stage for a much
larger planting program with active local participation, by developing com-
munity awareness and by building up the required institutional support. Nur-
series would be established throughout the plains of Uttar Pradesh. Technical
staff would be trained and would acquire experience in dealing with the rural
society, and in promoting local involvement. At the same time, 48,680 ha of
village plantings would be established which would demonstrate to the popula-
tion the benefits to be derived from social forestry programs. Participating
villages would become progressively involved in tree planting activities:
first in planning, then protection of the village forest, and later in manage-
ment and harvesting. While farm forestry would help develop "tree conscious-
ness," the community self-help pilot component would yield important lessons
for the design and implementation of the later phases of the Social Forestry
Program.
6.02      Direct benefits from project plantings would be threefold.  First,
they would provide fuel and fodder essential to rural households, and other
goods for the community at large. Second, they would generate employment
and income in the rural areas by directly distributing wages and creating a
resource base for the development of cottage industries. They would also be
a source of income for the villages to be invested in village improvement
projects. Third, they would help to maintain the environmental stability on
which a satisfactory quality of life and continued food production depend.
6.03      Fuelwood and Fodder.  At full project development in year 11, the
annual production of fuelwood would be sufficient to satisfy the total fuel
requirements of 90,000 rural households, or about half a million people. But
in practice fuelwood from project plantings, which would be scattered over a
large area, would partially satisfy the fuel needs of a larger number of
families. For about six million people, fuelwood supplies would increase by
at least 20%. The greater abundance of fodder would result in additional milk
production of some 4 million liters annually. More easily accessible sources
of fuelwood and fodder would also mean that less rural labor would be diverted
to gathering wood wastes and grass, thus imposing less drudgery and fatigue
on women and children who carry out this task. Project benefits would benefit
all the people of the participating villages, about half of whom belong to the
poverty income group.
6.04      Employment.  The project would generate a total of 19.3 million man-
days of employment to establish and maintain the plantation over five years.
This would mainly benefit the poorest section of the population (Antyodayas)
since hard jobs such as digging pits and trenches are normally done by them,
and since, in hiring local labor for all activities SFD would give priority
to the Antyodayas. It would also create a large number of small jobs for
people engaged in the marketing and processing of minor forest produce. In
particular, about 170 family units in year 7, building up to 1,500 in year 11,



- 34 -
would be employed permanently in raising silkworms. Additional supplies of
scarce raw material to local industries -- such as seed to oil mills, bark to
tanning industries, pulpwood to art paper cottage industries and small timber
to carpentry shops -- would also result in the creation of additional jobs.
6.05      Environment.  Without the project, the villagers would have used
more organic wastes as fuel, which would have decreased the already low
soil fertility. Furthermore, project plantings would reduce wind erosion of
adjacent agricultural land. Soil stabilization by tree roots, building up of
leaf litter, and reduction of the impact of rain on the soil, would arrest
soil erosion by run-off in all planted areas. In addition, the afforestation
of marginal land would improve fertility of these areas by breaking the sub-
surface soil pan and returning nutrients to the soil in leaf litter. Soil
improvers which have the ability to fix atmospheric nitrogen and return it to
the soil as nitrates, would be the main species planted on marginal lands.
Not the least important, in this country of tremendous summer heat, strips of
trees along the roads, and clumps of trees near villages would provide shade
for the comfort of humans and animals alike.
Rate of Return Calculations
6.06      Benefits.  The project's directly quantifiable benefits would be the
increased production of fuelwood, fodder, timber and other produce from the
plantations. In the rate of return calculations only these benefits have been
taken into account, while secondary benefits from processing of project output
have not been quantified except for increased milk production from fodder and
production of silk cocoons from mulberry leaves. Production from existing and
soTwn fodder grasses, which is assumed to offset existing grass production in
all planted areas, has been excluded from the benefit stream.
6.07      Market prices adjusted for transport, harvesting, and processing
costs where applicable were used in the economic analysis. Since, despite
project plantings, the shortage of forest produce will not ease over the next
decades, current market prices have been projected over the entire project
period. Annex 3 indicates both market and economic prices used in the analysis
and the assumptions made to arrive at these estimates.
6.08      Costs.  Material costs have been adjusted to eliminate taxes which
amount to 8% of the before-tax price. Due to severe underemployment and low
levels of agricultural productivity, the yearly average market wage of un-
skilled labor is lower than the official rate. This is reflected by a shadow
wage rate of Rs 3.25/man-day which was used in the analysis. The basis for
calculation of this shadow wage rate, which is 65% of the official rate, is
given in Annex 3. No shadow wage rate has been applied to skilled labor. No
adjustment was made on account of foreign exchange costs, which are negligible.
6.09      Rate of Return in Economic Prices.  Using the foregoing assumptions,
the economic rate of return for the project over a 35-year period would be
13.2%; it would be 12.4% if farm forestry is excluded. The rates of return
for the individual models are all over 10%. A sensitivity analysis has been
carried out (and presented in Annex 3). It reveals that the project is not
sensitive to variations in labor costs, and moderately sensitive to variations
in total costs and benefits.



- 35 -
6.10      Social Rate of Return.  The project would be socially attractive
since more than 90% of the benefits would accrue to people whose annual income
lies below the critical consumption level estimated at 76% of the national
average (see Annex 3, para 7). To try and quantify its distributional impact,
a social analysis has been carried out. Social analysis reflects the degree
to which Government objectives as to growth and distribution have been met by
giving a higher value to benefits which are saved, or benefits that are con-
sumed by the poor. Computationally, the project's net social benefits equal
the net economic benefits minus a term which represents the net social cost
of increased private consumption resulting from the project. The formula
used and basic assumptions made are indicated in Annex 3, para 5. Assuming a
moderate emphasis of Government policy on income distribution (n = 1), the
social rate of return would be 36.4%, while the relevant cut-off rate (Social
Accounting Rate of Interest) is 7%. Rates of return for different assumptions
on n and v are in Annex 3. Furthermore, if the social net benefit stream is
broken down into its economic and social components, the net present value
(at 7%) of the former component would be Rs 221 M, while that of the latter,
Rs 656 M. Thus, in terms of social prices, the net present value of the
project is Rs 877 M; in terms of efficiency prices, Rs 221 M. Similar cal-
culations for other values of the parameters n and v are presented in Annex 3.
This analysis shows that the project is socially sound.
Project Risks
6.11      The most obvious risk is that the project would not lead to self-
sustained community involvement as expected, and thus would not achieve the
long-range goal of the Social Forestry Program, which is to increase quickly
the rate of plantings through community self-help. Since community partici-
pation in self-help forestry schemes would be new in India, and progress might
initially be slow, a cautious though flexible approach is in order, and would
be adopted in the proposed project. The proposed approach would ensure appro-
priate supervision by forestry staff where necessary, but at the same time
allow for less Government control wherever local initiative is available.
Project interventions would be varied enough to adjust to the diversity of
situations encountered, while minimizing the risks of a planting rate slower
than expected, which would render the project uneconomic.
6.12      The risk would be low therefore that under SFD control the planting
rate would be slower than expected. In fact, the Forest Department has shown
a definite ability to meet planting targets (para 1.12). SFD's interventions
would be different from the conventional Forest Department activities, but
this has been reflected by a low ratio of area planted per field staff, to
take into account the time spent on extension work. The risk would be rather
that SFD would not move away quickly enough from full control over project
execution. But, in view of the very strong commitment of the UP Forest
Department to the Social Forestry Program, the risk is minimal. The
Forest Department itself has evidenced its strong commitment by initiating
the program and creating a separate directorate responsible for forest
extension.



- 36 -
6.13      The risk, however, remains that the rural population would be un-
willing to readily provide the modest contribution which is expected from
them in protecting project plantings. Fostering increased tree consciousness
would lower this risk. This would be accomplished by field staff extension
work with participating villages, by seedling distribution at a nominal cost,
and by education of the population at large through the project communication
units. Furthermore, project investments for protection of plantings would
be substantial, and would be eliminated only where there is evidence of local
awareness of the importance of protection.
6.14      Finally, there is a risk that better-off people of the village,
being the most powerful, would be the major beneficiaries of project planta-
tion produce. This risk has been recognized and steps would be taken to
minimize such risks. For example, contractual agreement would be reached
between the village panchayat and the SFD regarding the sharing of forest
produce among the villagers; the village level committee would organize and
supervise the distribution of fuelwood, which would be harvested at a specific
time under the supervision of SFD personnel; SFD staff and project communica-
tion units would inform villagers of their rights.
6.15      Overall risks are considered reasonable for a project which would
be innovative in nature. Nevertheless, to optimize project objectives an
interim evaluation of the project would be carried out to re-orient invest-
ments in the latter part of the proposed project as deemed necessary, and
to draw lessons for preparation of the second phase of the program.



- 37 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following principal assurances were
obtained from GOI and GOUP:
(a)  road side plantings would be confined to national and state
highways and to main district roads, and canal side plantings
to main and branch canals (para 2.09);
(b)  self-help tree planting schemes would be tested in at least
1,500 villages over the project period (para 2.14);
(c)  GOUP would make available to all eligible staff credit
facilities on terms and conditions designed to provide
incentives for the purchase of motorcycles and bicycles
and appropriate travelling allowances to encourage
optimum use of these (para 2.19);
(d)  field staff, including FEWs and CDFs, would live in or near
areas assigned for their operations and for this purpose
would be provided such low cost housing or rent allowances
as necessary (para 2.19);
(e)  at least three communication units would be established
no later than April 1, 1980 (para 2.21);
(f)  a research program to meet the needs of social forestry
in the project area would be finalized in consultation
with IDA by December 31, 1979 (para 2.31);
(g)  Quarterly Planting Progress Reports would be furnished
to IDA (para 3.07);
(h)  the Forest Department would keep separate accounts of
expenditures made under the project to be audited
annually for each fiscal year, in accordance with audit-
ing principles consistently applied. Accounts would be
submitted for audit within six months of the end of the
financial year, audited not later than nine months after
the end of such year, and the audited reports promptly
submitted to IDA (para 3.08);
(i)  the monitoring unit would be established no later than
April 1, 1980 and it would submit a work program to IDA
for review no later than June 30, 1980 (para 4.11);
(j)  the State Policy Review Committee, the Project Implementa-
tion Committee and the District Level Committees would be
established by December 31, 1979 (para 4.13);



- 38 -
(k) SFD would recover as a minimum the labor and material costs
of plantings (para 5.02); and
(1) operational and financial plans for a sample of ten village
plantations would be forwarded to IDA for comments by
April 1, 1980 (para 5.04).
7.02       A condition of Credit effectiveness would be that GOUP furnish to
the Association a pro forma agreement between SFD and the village panchayat
satisfactory to the Association covering:
(a) the role and involvement of the village;
(b) the contribution to be made by SFD; and
(c) the respective benefits to be shared between the
village and SFD (para 4.05).
7.03       To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and to recog-
nize the early initiatives taken by Uttar Pradesh to implement the project,
it is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of US$500,000 be
made available for expenditures after January 1, 1979 (para 3.04).
7.04       With these conditions and assurances, the project would be suitable
for a Credit of US$23.0 M to GOI on standard IDA terms.



- 39 -                               ANNEX 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Program Required to Meet UP
Fuelwood Needs by Year 2000
Table 1.1   Fuel Consumption of Rural Households
Table 1.2   Plantation Establishment:
Physical Achievements



- 40 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Planting Program Required to meet UP
Fuelwood Needs by Year 2000
1.        The following is an analysis of the fuelwood requirements of the
rural population of UP and the corresponding plantation targets that would
have to be achieved in order to provide for this need. It is assumed that
the fuel needs of the urban areas are elsewhere provided for, by a shift to
other forms of fuels, such as coal.
2.        The rural population of UP is presently estimated at 85 million
people and would reach 129 million by the year 2000. To maintain the present
level of per capita consumption of 120 kg in the Plains region 1/, correspond-
ing to 0.21 m3, the annual production of fuelwood should increase by 9.24
million m3 (44 M people x 0.21 m3) by that time. Given the average yield
of 8 m3 per ha of fuelwood plantations, this would require establishing some
1.2 million ha of these plantations in the next fifteen years, or about 80,000
ha annually.
3.        To replace the future use of cow dung as fuel by fuelwood in the
rural areas requires an annual production level of 0.32 m3 per capita.
To achieve this by the year 2000 would require increased annual production
of 9.4 million m3 (85 M x 0.11 m3) to provide the present population with
the cow dung substituting for fuelwood, in addition to the 14.1 million m3
(44 M x 0.32 m3) increased production needed to provide for the increase in
population. The increased annual production of 23.5 million m3 by the year
2000 implies the establishment of some 3 million ha by that time (or 200,000
ha annually); while, according to Government statistics, the total area of
wastelands available is only 2.1 million ha.
4.        Therefore, to provide enough fuelwood for all the energy needs of
the rural people by the year 2000 at the present levels of energy consumption
would be unrealistic; it would require 24.0 M m3 of fuelwood annually for
the existing population, and 21.5 M m3 for the future population. The in-
creased production of 45.5 M annually would in turn require a total planting
program of 5.7 million ha.
5.        At present, UP consists of some 112,000 villages with an average
population of 760 each. Allocating planting responsibilities to the villages
1/   See Table 1.1.



- 41 -                          ANNEX 1
Page  2
involved would imply the establishment of 10.7 ha by each village towards
the year 2000 simply to maintain constant the present level of per capita
consumption of fuelwood. A program in which each village would establish
annually 0.7 ha would attain this objective.
6.        If, instead, one aims at replacing the use of cow dung by the
year 2000, each village would have to establish by that time 10.5 ha to meet
the requirements of the present population, in addition to 15.7 ha to meet
similar needs of the incremental population. This 26.2 ha/village program
could be achieved by a scheme in which each village would establish 1.8 ha
each year.



- 42 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 1.1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
FUEL CONSUMPTION OF RURAL HOUSEHOLDS
Northern India
Conversion        Average                 Plains               Hills
Fuel       Factor      kg     CR *   %        kg      CR     %      kg      CR*   %
Firewood      0.7        787 /a  551   42       656    459   36  1,573   1,101   67
Vegetable
Wastes      0.6        633      380   29      680    408   32    575        345   21
Cow Dung      0.3      1,050      315   24   1,147    344   27    274          82    5
Others        n.a.       n.a.      66    5      n.a.    64    5    n.a.    116    7
Total   n.a.       n.a.  1,312  100        n.a. 1,275  100    n.a.  1,644  100
/a   With an average household of 6.6 members, the per capita consumption of
fuelwood is 120 kg or 0.21 m3 .
*    CR = Coal Replacement equivalent kg.
Source: NCAER Report, GOI.
January 24, 1979



- 43 -                              ANEX I
INDIA                                Table 1.2
UP SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Establishment: Physical Achievements
1973-77
-------------Area Planted (in ha)------------
Category of Plantation             1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    Total
1. Plantations of Economic        8,695   8,051   6,910   8,515   8,412   40,583
and Industrial
Importance
2. Plantation of Fast            10,932   9,429   8,940   7,876   6,162   43,339
Growing Species.
3. Fuelwood Plantations )
)       1,000      795     500      500      706    3,501
4. Farm Forestry         )
5. Roadside Plantations             337      272     210   1,117   1,080    3,016
(Row Km converted
into ha - 3 rkm = 1 ha)
6. Canal Bank Plantations           -        -       -        -        -
(included under (10(b)
below)
7. Rail side Plantations            -        -       -
(included under (10(b)
below)
8. Reclamation/Afforestation    5,000   3,126   1,850   2,070   1,920   13,966
of Ravines.
9. Afforestation in Hill            -        901   2,122   2,877   6,415   12,315
Areas under Soil
Conservation and Civil
and Soyam Scheme.
10. Social Forestry                  -        -       -        310   2,155    2,465
(a) mixed plantation
(b) reforestation of             -       -        -         57   1,095    1,152
degraded forest and
creation of shelter
belts (Row km
converted into ha -
3 rkm = 1 ha)
11. River Valley                   2,062   1,834   1,967   2,017   1,851    9,731
Project in Catchment
Areas (Ramganga &
Matatila R.V.P.)
Totals                   28,026  24,408  22,499  47,339  29,796  130,068
12. Extensive Tree                   -        -        -    22,000  40,000   62,000
Plantation (Seedlings
distribution - '000)



- 44 -                           ANNEX 2
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 2.1   Forest Plantation Species:  Properties and Uses
Table 2.2   Comparison of Plantation Models:  Road Side, Canal
Side, Rail Side, Village Land, Reserve Forest
Table 2.3:  Yields
Table 2.4:  Plantation Targets
Table 2.5:  Community Self-Help Planting Targets



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Plantation Species: Properties and Uses for Which They Will be Grown in the Project
Properties/Uses
W       4~~J $.   d                              0
? ~   ~~~~ -I    Q                                                CIhh U             
>l S    N         u C  .J$4  )4            4  C   0    0            W -4 S M
0    5       ~         r CS ,-iS           S   S   te    -1        .-4S 4, J-     C
eri        CZ X   0.   I.:    .  -4.  .            .0 G               .E  flO   4  0   0,
Ca         0   '0o a    CZ    S    '0 o                  o4   *  o-             v- 
00     .c     4     0    5,-4    5NO  :    0   SU0 14   co         '0  -,  'X:- .4.1-45
Species                            -           0 o   u    -44i C4-0. W        H  4-4  -                  W 4o   W44   o    o.
1. Acacia nilotica (babul)                         x     x      x           x      x     x             x    x
2. Aegls marmelos (bel)                                                                                                  x
3. Albizzia lebbeck (kala siris)             x     x            x           x      x     x
4. Albizzia procera (safed siris)            x     x      x     x            x     x
5. Artocarpus integrifolia (kathal)                x                                                                     x
6. Azadirachta indica (neem)                       x      x     x            x     x     x                                     x
7. Bauhinia spp. (kachnar)                   x     x      x                              x
8. Cassia siamea (kassod)                    x     x      x     x                  x
9. Dalbergia sisso (sheesham)                x     x      x                  x     x     x
10. Delonix regia (goldmohar)                       x      x
11. Emblica officinalis (aonla)                                                                                           x
12. Eucalvptus hybrid (eucalypt)                    x            x            x     x
13. Lucaena leucocephala (koo babul)          x                  x                  x      x
14. Madhuca latifolia (mahua)                        x                                     x                         x           x
15. Mangifera indica (mango)                         x     x                  x     x                                     x
16. Moringa oleifera (saijan)                                    x                         x                  x           x      x    x
17. Morus alba (mulberry)                            x           x      x                  x     x                        x
18. Pongamia pinnata (kanji)                         x     x                        x                                            x
19. Prosopis juliflora (prosopis)             x                  x                  x      x
ZO. Psibium gujava (guava)                                                                                                k
21. Syzygium cumini (Jamun)                          x     x     x            x     x                                     x
22. Tamarindus indica (imli)                         x     x                  x     x                                     x
23. Tamarix articulata (tamarisk)                                x            x     x
24. Terminalia arluna (arjun)                       x      x                  x                  x      x
25. Zizyphus jujuba (ber)                                                                 x                               x



IND IA
UP SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Comparison of Plantation Models
Road Side                         Canal Side                             Rail Side                             Village                             Degraded
Percentage       Seedlingsa           Percentage    Seedlings/             Percentage   Seedlings/             Percentage    Seedling!/             fercentage      Seedlings/
of Area         I ha Model             of Area      1 ha Model             of Area       1 ha Model            of Area        1 ha Model            of Area        1 ha ltdel
A.  Fuelwood Trees                               80%                                  75%                                 70/                                 80%                                  802
(Eucalyptus                         50%                500               70%              866.25             75%               656.25              51                 67               5%                    67
(Albizzia                           10%                100               20%              247.5              10%                87.5
(Cassia                             10%                100                                                   10%                87.5
Species (Acacia                               20%               200                                                                                        50%                (672              50%                  (672
(lucaena                             5%                 50                                                                                                       81%(                                   80%(
(Prosopis                            -                                                                                                            35%               (471               30%                 (403
(Tamarix                             -                                                                                                             5%                 67
(Dtl-r.                              5%                 50               10%              123.75              5%                43.75              S%                 67              15%.                  208
100              1,000              100                                 100                                  100                                  100
Density (Seedlings/ha)                     1,250             1,O00              1,650            1237.5             1,250              875               1,680             1,344              1,680               1,344
Spacing (meters)                           4 x 2   .3    2                                                          4 x 2                                3 x 2                               3 x 2
B.  Others                                       20%                                  25%                                 30%                                  20%                                 20%
(Mangifera                         (60                   6              (70                 1.75            (10                  0.45           (10%                  0.5            (10%                    0.5
fruit (Madhoca                            (20                   2              (20                  0.5            (30                   1.35           (60%                  3.0            (60%                    3.0
(a)    (Tamarindus                    50%(10                    1          10%( 5                  0.13        157(10                   0.45        25%(                                 25%(
(Syzygiun                          (                                    (                                   (                                    (20%                 1.0            (207.                    1.0
(Others                            (10                   I              ( 5                  0.13           (50                  2.25            (10%                 0.5             (10%                   0.5
10                                  2.5                                  4.5                                  55
Small Timber - Dalbergia               25%                     20           10%                    10          20%                      26          25%                      20          25%                        20
(b)
Others   -       A-adirachta              (10                   2              (lo                 8               (10                   7.5            (10                   4              (10                     4
(c)             Moringa                   (10                   2              (40                32               (54                 41              (10                   4              (10                     4
Pongamia             25%(10                    2          50%(10                  6           657(26                  20           50X(20                   8           50%(20                     8
Terminalia               (40                   8              (                                   (                                    (20                  8               (20                    8
Mores                    (                                    (30                24
Others                   (30                   6              (10                 8               (10                   7.5            (40                 16               (40                   16
20                                  0                                   76                                                                           40
Density  (a) (Seedlings/ha)                 100                10              100                  2.5            100                   4.5            100                   5              100                     5
Spacing  (a) (meters)                     10    10                            10 x 10                             10 x10                               10 x 10                              10    10
Density (b)&(c) (Seedlings/ha)             400                 40              400                 90              400                 102              400                  60              400                    60
Spacing (b)6(c) (meters)                   5 a 5                               5 x5                                5 x5                                 5 x5                                 5 x 5
Total Seedlings/ha                                  1,050                             1,330                                  982                                 1,409                                  1,409
With 15% Casualties                                 1,210                             1,530                                1,130                                 1,620                                   1,620
C.  Planting Technique
(A) fuel..o.d Trees
pit                                   50%                                  70%                                607.                                 6.25%                                6.25%
mounds                                307O                                 30%                                40%                                  6.25%                                6.25%
linear trenches                                                                                                                                   12.50%                               12.50%
direct soscing                        20%                                                                                                         75.0%                                75.0b
(5) Others
Circular trenches                     10%                                  -                                   _                                    5%                                  5%
Linear trenches                        -                                                                                                          45%                                  45%
Speeial mounds                         -                                                                                                          50%                                  50%
Pits                                  45                                   70%                                60%  
Mounds                                45%                                  30%                                40%
December 1978



- 47 -
INDIA                                                        ANNEX 2
UTTTAR PRADESN SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT                                        Table 2.3
Yields
Trees/ha
Forest                                                   Principal               (as              Year of Harvest                    Yield/ha 3
Product                       Species                    Planting Sites    monoculture)         first       thereafter             m.t.       m
1. grass fodder               grasses                    all                    n/a               2         every year              2.0
2, leaf fodder        from fuelwood and timber spp.  r; c; 1; v; f           r & 1; 1250          3         every year              8.0
babul, kala siris, kachner,                            e, v & 1:
sheesham, koo babul 6 prosopis                         1650-1680
3, fuelwood           from fueLwod  o
babul                              r; v; f             as above            5         10; 15; 20; 25         17.4        30
eucalypts                         r; 1; v; f                                '                '              29.0        50
c                                                                        34.8        60
kassod                            rv;1  f''                                                  '23.2                      40
kao babul                         r; v; f                                                                   172.0       30
prosopis                          v;f                                                                      21.3         30
sirns (2 app.)                    r;l203                                                                                 5
11  11  c                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23.2  40
other fuelwood spp.               r; 1; v; f                                                                14.5        25
11  11    c  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"17.4                                                           30
sheesham                          all                  400                30         replant                29.0        50
siris (2 spp.)                    r; c; 1                                                                   29.0        50
from fruit trees
imli                              r; c; 1              100                30         replant                 8. 7       15
mahua & other spp.                 all                                     ,                                14.5        25
mango                              all                                                                      29.0        50
jamun                             v.f.                                                                      14.5        25
from other commrcalap.
arjun                             r; v; f              400                30         replant                34.8        60
kanii                             all                  400                30         replanct               87.0       150
mulberry                           c                                                                        34.8        60
neem                              all                                                                       29.0        50
4. small timber       from small timber spp.
sheesham                          all                  400                30         replant               104.4       160
siris (2 spp.)                    all                                                                      121.8      210
from fruit trees
imfit                                                  100                30         replant                17.4        30
mahua & other spp.                 all                                                                       29.0       50
mango                              all                                    ,                                87.0       150
j amun                            v.f. t29.0                                                                            5
from other commercial app.
arjun                             r; v; f              400                30         replant                69.6       120
neem                               all                                                                      87.0       150
5. bark for           from  fuelvood  sup.
tannin             babul                              r                 1,250                  5         10; 15; 20; 25          2.5
11                     ~~~~~~~v; f        1,650                                  "3.3
from other commercial app.
arjun                              r.v.f.
6. pulp for art       from  other  cmmria    ap
paper              saijan                             all                 400                 10         15; 20; 25; 30          5.8       10
7. leaves for         from  other commercial  app.
silkworm  and      arjun                              r.v.f.              400                  6         every year             12.0
tusser            mulberry                            c
8. edible fruits    from fruit trees
imli                              r; c; 1              100                10         11-20                    2.0
21-25                   5.0
26-30                  10.0
mahua & other spp.                 all                                    10          11-20                   1.0
21-30                   2.0
mango                              all                                    10          11-20                   4.0
21-30                   5.0
jamuin                             v.f.                                   10          11-20                   1.0
21-30                   2.0
9. edible             from fruit trees
flowers            mahua                              all                 100                 10         11-30                   5.6
10. oilseeds           from other commercial spp.
kanji & other spp.                 all                 400                  5          6-9                    1.6
10-30                   4.0
10         11-20                   2.8
neem                               all                                                21-30                   4.0
5          6-30                   1.2
saijan                             all
Key to Symbols:  r = road side; c = canal sidet 1 = rail side; v   village  land  f 5 d  rAded forest,
Yields:  Yields/ha refer to the harvest from a fully stocked hectare of a pure plantatr6n.
Fuelwood yields in M tons were obtained from the MAI using a conversion factor of 0.58.
January 25, 1979



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Plantation Targets 1/
(ha)
Project Years                       1          2          3         4          5            Total          %
Farm Forestry                         400        600        800       1000      1200           4000           8
Community Self-Help                    40        140        500        920      1480            3080           6
Canal Banks                          1755       2280       3090      4210       4665          16000           30
Degraded Forest                      1490       1940       2625       3580      3965          13600           26
Railway Sides                         440        570        770      1050       1170           4000            8
Road Sides                            765       1000       1350      1845       2040            7000         13
Village Commonland                     550       710        965       1315       1460           5000           9
Sub-Total                       5440       7240     10100      13920      15980          52680
%0                                11         14        19         26         30                        100
1/ A hectare will normally carry the number of plants given in the model concerned.  Wherever in
practice the density of plants is increased over that given in the model, the physical area
actually planted should be increased in proportion to the increase in the number of plants
per ha, for the purpose of comparing achievements with agreed targets. This would apply to
no more than 20% of the area.
n, a
z
1D >C
January 26, 1979                                                                     



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.5
INDIA
UP Social Forestry Project
Number of Villages under Self-Help Scheme
Project Year      Divisions        Criteria             Villages          Hectares
(Villages/Range)                     (2 ha./Village)
1               4            l/Range                 20                 40
2               4            2/Range                 40
6            l/Range                30
70               140
3               4            4/Range                 80
6            4/Range               120
5            2/Range                50
250               500
4               4            6/Range                120
6            6/Range               180
5            4/Range               100
6            2/Range                60
460               920
5               4            8/Range                160
6            8/Range               240
5            6/Range               150
6            4/Range               120
7            2/Range                70
740             1,480
Total            28                                 1,540              3,080



50 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation Assumptions
1.        Economic Cost of Unskilled Labor.  The shadow wage rate for labor in
domestic prices is best reflected in the free market wages, which vary during
the year. For estimating the economic cost of labor in the project, the sea-
sonality of labor use has been taken into account. The early rainy season in
June/July is time of peak labor demand when farm and forestry operations are
carried out concurrently. At that time the free market wage is Rs 5/MD, which
should be applied to value project labor used in those months (about 30% of
total project labor). In the period from November to April, when the bulk
of project activities would take place (70% of required labor), is the slack
agriculture season. The free market wage rate at that time is assumed to be
half the peak rate or Rs 2.5/MD. Therefore the weighted economic cost of proj-
ect labor is Rs 3.25/MD, or 65% of the actual market rate.
2.        Economic Price of Fuelwood.  Fuelwood produced as a result of the
project has been valued at its market price less the economic cost of bringing
fuelwood to the market. It has been assumed that the market price will not
be significantly affected by the project output. This is reasonable in view
of the fact that project production would represent less than 2% of current
UP fuelwood consumption, and that most project fuelwood output would not be
marketed. Detailed calculations are given below:
Rs/mt
Fuelwood retail price                                       250.0
in main marketplace (Lucknow)
Costs (from UP Forest Development Corporation) 1/
-    Felling and Stacking (2.2 MD)                           11.0
-    Transport to Lucknow (Average distance
from project plantings 100 km)                       28.6
-    Handling (1 MD)                                          5.0
-    Overheads                                               39.6
84.2
Costs if economic price of labor during
slack season is used (Rs 2.5/MD)                             76.2
Economic Stumpage Price of Fuelwood                         173.8
1/   Cutting is by handsaws, loading  is manual, and transport is by truck.



ANNEX 3
- 51 -                     Page  2
Leaf Fodder
3.        The financial price of leaf fodder is Rs 10/MT, which equals the
market price minus costs of transportation and extraction. The economic
price used in the economic rate of return calculations equals Rs 32/MT and
is based on the following assumptions. Half the fodder will be fed to unpro-
ductive animals, the other half to milking cows. Animals are very much
underfed; therefore any incremental food would result in additional milk pro-
duction without additional cost but the labor to collect fodder. The value
of fodder is then based on the potential increase in milk production. The
dry matter of green fodder is estimated at 25% of the total weight. Assuming
that 4 kg of dry matter yields one liter of milk, and deducting the cost of
fodder collection yields the economic price of Rs 32/MT. Milk has been treated
as a non--traded commodity because the local milk market in the project area
is isolated from the national market, and the incremental milk production
would probably be consumed by the villagers themselves. The local price of
milk (Rs 1.5) has therefore been used in the analysis.
Mulberry Leaves
4.        The financial and economic prices of mulberry leaves are obtained
as follows:
Financial       Economic
Price (Rs/MT) Price (Rs/MT)
Gross Return/ha of Mlulberry trees                   7,500           7,500
10 MT leaves/ha
0.05 MT cocoons/MT leaves
cocoon price Rs 15/kg
Wages                                                3,600           2,304 /a
3 man/year at 240 days
Production Incentives                                1,750
at Rs 3.5/kg of cocoons
Production Costs
Disease free layings                             200             200
Shed (Amortization)                              300             300
Miscellaneous                                    150              150
Net Return/ha                                        1,500           4,546
Net Return/MT leaves                                   150             455
/a   Applying the shadow wage rate of Rs 3.2/Manday to labor costs.



- 52 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
Financial and Economic Prices for all produce are summarized in the table
below:
Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Price   Economic Price
Produce                                (Rs/MT)           (Rs/MT)
Leaf Fodder                               10                  32
Mahua Flowers                         2,000               2,000
Fuelwood                                 100                174
Timber                                   250                250
Bark for Tanning                         100                100
Pulp for Art and Paper                    80                  80
Fruit                                 1,000               1,000
Seeds                                    700                700
Leaves for Silkworms                     150                455
Assumptions for Social Pricing
5.        The net benefit stream in social prices (NBSP) was derived from
the following formula:
d b
NBSP  =  NBEP  +    C  (v  - c )
where     NBEP is the net benefit stream in efficiency prices (as
used for the ERR analysis) expressed in border prices.
The latter term is the "social component."
C    is the incremental consumption benefits accruing
to private individuals in market prices: it
includes incremental income to labor (i.e., the
excess of the government wage over the market
wage) and the increased consumption of forest
produce by the villagers.
d    is the weighted average income distribution weight
and is derived below.
v    is the social value of public income and equals
1.75.
b    is the consumption conversion factor and equals
0.75.
The cutoff rate for social analysis is the social accounting rate of interest
(SARI) estimated to be 7%.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
6.        The social rate of return for the project was calculated for
various values of (i) the elasticity of marginal utility of income (n),
and (ii) the Social price of public income (v). The net present value of
the social component for these same choices of n and v are also presented.
Social Rate of Return (%)
1.333       1.75          3.50
0         12.8         11.7          10.0
1         54.2         36.4          19.9
2            _-*         _.*_
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- No rate of return exists for these, since at n   2
the net benefit stream becomes positive for all years.
Net Present Value of Social Component- (M Rs.)
(at 7%)
v r  \    1   1.333  1.75         3.50)
*        l    _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I          I__ _ _ _
0             0**      178      j  -492
1         920          656           237
2         11112        8401          4110
*-  At d=1, v=1.333, and b,=.75  it follows that    '             = 0
1/  NFV ao  .corarnic component is tunchanoed for each, -mse anJ
ecutali Rs 221 W.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
7.        The Critical Consumption Level (CCL) was found to equal Rs 971.  This
implies that approximately 90% of the beneficiaries lie below the CCL. Since
the forest produce are to be distributed equally among the population and since
wage income tends to be directed towards the lowest two income groups, the
results reflect that more than 90% of the benefits will accrue to those below CCL,
estimated at .76 C (using n - 1).
8.        Derivation of Distribution Weight (d)
For any n, the value dfor each income class i is obtained as follows:
d.    =n
3          (_)n
Where C is the average income level for India (Rs 1,275 for 1978), and C
is the with-project income level of group i, Letting a C. be the
incremental income to group i due to the project, then the weighted distribution
factor (d) is obtained as:
d =C2 (ACi             d i    where   AC   =  LhAC.
LC
The value of d has thus been calculated for each year (for each choice of n)
up to year 10, at which point it was assumed to remain constant.
Notes:    C   -  Average income level in India, 1978.
C, -  Average income of (7) group(s) i (from NCAER adjusted to
1978 values):  Rs 83; 254; 419; 750; 1,251; 1,753; 2,250
(these groups have respective relative sizes of 21.6,
28.9, 18.3, 21.7, 5.5, 2.2, and 1.8 percent), in addition
to income from the project as incremental wages and in-
creased consumption which are assume to accrue in equal
proportion to the lowest two income groups and all
income groups respectively.
Table 3.5, as an example, shows how d2 is obtained for each year for group 2.
The same method is applied to all other groups. The weighted average d, for
any year, is then arrived at by weighing each group's d. for that year by
the corresponding A C. for that group.  Table 3.6 presents the total
incremental consumption ( A C) stream and its breakdown into its wages and
forest produce components.



- 55 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 3.1
INDIA
UP SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Rates of Return by Models
Canal   Rail   Village  Degraded
Roadside    Side    Side   Lands    Forests
ERR in financial prices              6.4         7.8      8.4     9.1       8.9
Financial ROR                         1.6        3.3      2.6      1.4      1.9
Raise all Costs by 20%             0.7         2.2      1.5     0.3       0.9
Lower all Benefits by 20%          0.4         1.9      1.3     0.1       0.6
Economic ROR                        10.3        12.9    12.8    13.2       13.1
Raise Labor Costs by 20%          10.0        12.5    12.3    12.9       12.8
Raise all Costs by 20%             8.7        11.1    11.0    11.5       11.3
Lower all Benefits by 20%          8.4        10.7    10.6    11.1       10.9
Project Sensitivity Analysis
ROR           including Farm Forestry                  13.2%
ROR           excluding Farm Forestry                  12.4%
ROR           at market prices                          7.9%
Raise         Labor Costs* by 20%                      12.9%
Raise         all Costs* by 20%                        11.5%
Raise         all Benefits* by 20%                     10.8%
*Sensitivity is performed with respect to ROR including
Farm Forestry.
The rate of return on the roadside component is relatively low at
10.3% due to the high protection cost (para 2.28); it is nevertheless accept-
able in view of an opportunity cost of capital for India estimated to be
between 8% and 10%. Although yielding comparatively lower return than other
plantings, this component should be included for four main reasons:
(a) roadside plantings would be the most visible project activ-
ities and therefore would best advertise the Social Forestry
program;



ANT,NEX 3
Table 3.1
Page 2
(b)  many village panchayats would probably wait to see the
results of tree plantings on public lands before allo-
cating their commonlands for the same purpose;
(c) to some villages, roadsides would be the only land avail-
able for tree planting; and
(d) it would provide much needed shade over sidewalks during
summer heat.
The rate of return on the farm forestry component, 27.2% is high because of
low overhead costs involved and the absence of investment in protection. It
reflects the R.O.R. to be expected from a self sustaining community tree
planting scheme in the later phases of the program.



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Streams
(Rs M)
Y13AR      COST      --_--_---------------------------------------------------------- BENEFITS -----------------------------------------------------________________  NET BENEF.    un Bludin
oe mludiukg
Farm        Leaf        l4ahua    Fuelvood    Timber       Bark        Pulp       Fruits     Oilseeds    Leaves for      Total                    free produce
Forestry     Fodder      Flowers                               _          _                                   Sillc
t        46.96       0.08        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0,00          0.08         -46.88        -46.88
2        59.85       0.13        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00          0.13         -59.72         -159.72
3        78.23       0.17        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0,00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.17         -78.06         -78.06
4        73.05       0.21        0.13        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00          0.34         -72.71        -72.84
78.29       0.25        0.29        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00          0.54         -77.75        -78.04
6         6.24       0.00        0.51        0.00        9.45        0.00        0.30        0.00        0.00        0.72        0.00         10.98           4.74         -5.22
7         4.18       0.00        0.81        0.00       12.28        0.00        0.39        0.00        0.00        1.58        0.24         15.30          11.12         -1.97
8         4.18       0.00         1.15       0.00       16.63        0.00        0.53        0.00        0.00        2.83        0.56         21.70          17.52         -0.26
9         4.18       0.00         1.15       0.00       22.68        0.00        0.72        0.00        0.00        4.49        0.75         29.79          25.61           1.78
10         4.18       0.00        1.1S        0.00       25.14        0.00        0.80        0.00        0.00        6.32        1.58         34.98          30.80          4.52
11         4.18       0.00        1.15        1.10        9.45        0.00        0.32        0.04        0.60        7.16        2.23         22.05          17.87          6.13
12         4.18        0.00        1.15        2.53      12.28        0.00        0.44        0.05        1.38        8.26        2.23         28.32          24.14          8.09
13         4.18       0.00         1.15       4,47       16.63        0.00        0.61        0.06        2.44        9.79        2.23         37.38          33.20          10.80
14         4.18       0.00         1.15        7.11      22.68        0.00    '  0.85         0.09        3.88       11.81        2.23         49.79          45.61          14.44
15         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03      25.14        0.00        0.98        0.10        5.47       14.03        2.23         59.13          54.95          18.30
16         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03        9.45        0.00       0.48        0.02        5.47       14.03        2.23         42.87          38.69          17.73
17         4.18        0.00       115        10.03       12.28        0.00       0.57        0.03        5.47       14.03        2.23         45.80           41.62         17.82
18         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       16.63        0.00       0.71        0.04        5.47        14.03        2.23        50.29           46.11         17.97
19         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       22.68        0.00       0,90        0.05        5.47        14.03        2.23         56.54          52.36         18.17
20          4.18       0.00        1.15       10.03       25.14        0.00        0.98        0.05       5.47        14.03        2.23         59.08          54.90          18.26
21         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03        9.45        0.00        0.48        0.02       5.47        14.03        2.23         42.87          38.69          17.73
22         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       12.28        0.00        0.57        0.03        5.67       14.12        2.23         46.09          41.91          18.10
23         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       16.63        0.00        0.71        0.04        5.93       14.21        2.23         50.93          46.75          18.58
24         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       22.68        0.00        0.90        0.05        6.28       14.38        2.23         57.71          53.53          19.29
25         4.18        0.00        1.15       10.03       25.14        0.00        0.98        0.05        6.76       14.56        2.23         60.91          56.73          20.00
26          4.18       0.00        1.15       10.03        9.45        0.00        0.48        0.02        7.29       14.75        2.23         45.41          41.23          20.16
27          4.18       0.00        1.115      10.03       12.28        0.00        0.57        0.03        7.45       14.75        2.23         48.49          44.31          20.40
29          4.18       0.00        1.15       10,03       16.63        0.00        0.71        0.04        7.64       14.75        2.23         53.18          49,00          20.73
29          4.18       0.00        1.15       10.03       22.68        0.00        0.90        0.05        7.90       14.75        2.23         59.70          55.52          21.18
30          4.18       0.00         1.15      10.03       25.14        0.00        0.98        0.05        8.26       14.75        2.23         62.60          58.42          21.60
31         4.18         0.0o        1.15      10.03        4.35       17.57        0.18        0.02        8.66       14.75        2.23         58.96          54.78          38.72
32         4.18        0.00         1.02       8.93        5.66       22.85        0.16        0.03        7.71       13.12        1.98         61.46          57,28          41.21
33         4.18         0.00        0.86       7.50        7.66       30.93        0.14        0.04        6.48       11.01        1.67         66.29           62.11         45.69
34         4.18        0.00        0.64        5.57       10.45       42.18        0.10        0.05        4.81        8.17        1.24         73.20          69.02          52.08
35         4.18        0.0O        0.34        2.93       11.58       46.75        0.05        0.05        2.53        4.31        0.65         69.19           65.01         50.01



I3DIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Benefit Str-aoo
(R. M)
----------------------------------------  GROSS  BENEFITS  ------------------------------------------------------------------------ET  BENgFITS   --------
Farm        Leaf       Mahua       Fuelvood    Timber       merk         Pulp       Fruits     Oliseedo    Leave  for          Total         Excluding   Inciuding
Forestry     Fodder      Flower                                                                                  Silk                      Form Forestry Farm Forestry
0.00 
I           .00         0 Q 00      00                      0 .00        0.00        O.V           tIO        'o.o0       0.0Do             O.0o          -42. 0        -42.79
2             0   0.00 CIO          0.0(                    0.000        0.0(0       0.00         0,00         .V00       0.'00             0.o00         -53.41        -54.34
3           D>.00       0.00        0.00                   0*( ."               O*O          DO.)       C. 00        0.00             .00          -69.64        -70.90
4           0,00        0.40         .000                     00        0 -00       0*00         0.          e . OO      O0 0  ,0  o.o0    0 . 40         -62.65       -64.34
5          0.00         0.92         , .00                  0,(0        0D.(0        0.00        o0oo         0.00         0.00             0.92           -66.2t       -68.16
6          0.57         1.62        0.00                    0.00         02 0         0.00        0.00        0.72         0.00            18.33            13.53        14.10
7           0.75        2S58        0.00                     0.00        0.39         0.00        0.00        1.-8         0.73            25.69             2.53        23.28
8           1.01        3,.61       0.00        2894        0.00         0.53         0.00        (.003                    1.70            36.33            33.52        34.53
39.46
9           1.38        3,65        0.00                     0,00        0.72         0.00        0.00        4.49         2.2.            48.80           46.46         47.84
10           1,53        3.61        0.00        4,00                     0,90         0.00        0.00        6.32         4.79            57.30            55.16        56.69
11           1.67        3.b,         1.10                    0.00        0.3?         0.)4        0.60         7.16        6.76            36.41            31.94         33.61
12           3.25        3.65         2.53       21.38        0.00        0.44         0.(5        1.39t       8.26         6.76            45.97            40.31         43.56
13           5.41        3,65         4.47       28.94        0.00        0.61         0.06        2.44         9.79        6.76            59-79            52.58         57.99
14           6.90        3.6S         7.11       39.46        0.00        0.85         0.09        3.88        11.81        6.76            77.32            69.47         76.37
15          J1.23        3.65         003        43.74        0.00        0.98         0.10        5,47        14.03        6.76            92.47            80.63         91.86
16          10.27        3.65        10.03        16.44       0.00        0.48         0.02         5.47       14.03        6.76            65.83            52.76         63.03
17          10.45        3.65        10.03                    0.00        0.57         0.03        5,47        14,03        6.76            70.65            57.79         68.24
18          10.71        3.65       10.03        28.94        0,00        0.71         0.04        5.47        14,03        6.76             78.01           61.50         76.21
39 .46a
19          11.08        3.611      10.03                     0.0 o0       0.90        0-05        5.47        14.03        6.76             88,26           76.22         87.30
20          11.23        3,6         1003         43.74       0.00         0.98        0.05         5.47       14.03         6.76            92.42           80.58         91.81
21          10.27        3,65        10.03        16.44       0.00         0.48        0.02         S.47       14.03         6.76            65.83           52.76          63.03
22          10,45        3.65        10.03                    0.00         0.57        0.03         0.67       14.12         6.76            70.94           58.08          68.53
23          12.58        3.65        10.03        28.94       0.00         0.71        0.04         5.93       14,21         6.76            80.52           66.14          78.72
39,46
24          14.38        3.65        10.03                    0.00         0,90        0. 05        6.28       04.378        6.76            92.72           77.39          91.77
25          t6.40        3.6         1003         43.74       0.00         0.98        0.05         6,76       14.56         6.76            99.42           82.41          98.81
26          17.55        3.65        10.03        16.44       0.00         0.48        0.02         .29        511,11        6.76            75.66           55.30          72.85
27          18.22        3.65        10.03                    0.00         0.57         0.03        '.45       14,75         6.76            81.11           60.48          78.70
28          19.11         3.65       10.03        28.94       0.00         0./1         0.04        7.64        t4.75        6.76            89.30           68.39          87.50
29          20.33        3.61        10.03                    0.00         0.90         0.05        7.90       14. Z,        6.76           100.66           79.38          99.71
30          21.61        3.6         1003         43.74        0.00         .98         0.0,        9_6       1tq.75         6.76           106-32           84.10         105.71
31          21.33        3,65        10.03         7.58       17.57        0.18         0,02        8.66        14T15        6.76            89.93           6S.08           86.41
32          18.91        3.25         8.93         9.        22.8F         0.16         0,          '71         13,12        6.01            90.03           6/.28           86.69
33          15.83        2.73         7.50           3        30.93        0,14         (.04        6,41?       11.01        5.07            91.99            73.10          88.93
34          11.65        2.02         5.57        18.19      42.1IS        0.10        (0I01        4., 1         I.1t       3.76            05.03        -t8O.71            92.36
35           6.15         1.06        2,93        20.16       46.75   0.01              00.0 .-      2           4_11         j . 4    8       4_4            75.68          81.83



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Cost Streams
-- Project Costs ------------------                           Total Costs                   Total Costs
Year         Material    Labor      Others      Farm Forestry       including Farm Forestry       excluding Farm Forestry
1             18.55       6.06      17.46          0.72                      42.79                         42.07
2             21.56       8.40      23.45          0.93                      54.34                         53.41
3             27.73     11.33       30.58          1.26                      70.90                         69.64
4             20.21      14.91      27.93          1.69                      64.74                         63.05
5             22.07      16.57      28.56          1.88                      69.08                         67.20
6              0.04      1.25        4.27         0.00                        5.56                          51.56
UL
7-35             0.02       0.09       4.02          0.00                       4.13                          4.13          1
February 13, 1979
(X%



tdtid]X 3
- 60 -                                  Table 3.5
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Derivation of d for Income Group 2
Year      CW2            Cw2             C2/              C               d2
1        254         255.95           1.95            1275            4.98
2        254         256.70           2.70            1275            4.97
3        254         257.65           3.65            1275            4.95
4        254         258.84           4.84            1275            4.93
5        254         259.42           5.42            1275            4.91
6        254         257.27           3.27            1275            4.96
7        254         257.81           3.81            1275            4.95
8        254         259.17           5.17            1275            4.92
9        254         260.92           6.92            1275            4.89
10        254         261.63           7.63            1275            4.87
1/  C2   - without project income level - This is obtained as the
mid point of the income categories as presented in the NCAER.
/    C2   - incremental consumption due to the project - This consists
of incremental wages which accrue proportionally to the
lowest two income groups only, and incremental consumption
derived from forest produce which accrue proportionally to
all groups.



- 61 -                                     ANNEX 3
- 61 -                         ~~~~~~Table 3.6
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Incremental Consumption ( a C)
C               Wages                Forest Produce
Year                   M Rs.               M Rs.                    M Rs.
1                     3.41                3.41
2                     4.72               4.72
3                    6.37                6.37                       -
4                     8.51                8.38                     .13
5                     9.61                9.32                     .29
6                   10.65                  .69                    9.96
7                   13.15                  .05                   13.10
8                   17.83                  .05                   17.78
9                    23.88                 .05                   23.83
10                    26.34                 .05                   26.29
11                    11.79                 .05                   11.74
12                    16.10                 .05                   16.05
13                    22.45                 .05                   22.40
14                    31.23                 .05                   31.18
15                    36.72                 .05                   36.67
16                    21.03                 .05                   20.98
17                    23.87                 .05                   23.82
18                    28.21                 .05                   28.16
19                    34.26                 .05                   34.21
20                    36.72                 .05                   36.67
21                    21.03                 .05                   20.98
22                    23.88                 .05                   23.83
23                    28.24                 .05                   28.19
24                    34.31                 .05                   34.26
25                    36.80                 .05                   36.75
26                    21.15                 .05                   21.10
27                    23.99                 .05                   23.94
28                    28.35                 .05                   23.30
29                    34.42                 .05                   34.37
30                    36.90                 .05                   36.85
31                    16.14                 .05                   16.09
32                    16.16                 .05                   16.11
33                    16.49                 .05                   16.44
34                    17.01                 .05                   16.96
35                    15.06                 .05                   15.01
April 12, 1979



- 62 -                          ANNEX 4
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement and Auditing Procedures
Chart 4.1    Implementation Schedule
Table 4.1    Disbursement Schedule



ANNEX 4
- 63 -                          Page  1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement Against Statements of Expenditure
Evaluation of Procedure
Project Approval
1.        Before a project is approved and the necessary funds appropriated,
a Project Report based on the Staff Appraisal Report is prepared by the
Executing Agency and submitted for approval by the Planning Ministry through
the Secretary of the Ministry of the Executing Agency. Commitment is then
made by the State Government by agreeing to allocate funds for each of the
fiscal years of the project period. Similar commitment is obtained from the
GOI for its share in respect of the Project sponsored and partly financed by
the Central Government: such a procedure will not apply for the future, as
the practice of the Central Government allocating funds specifically for a
sponsored project has now been dispensed with. It is reported that the GOI
will continue to release lumpsums to the State Governments and leave it to
the discretion of the latter as to the choice of Projects to be financed from
funds granted by the Central Government.
2.        The Project Report prepared by the Forest Department and submitted
through the Secretary Forestry has been cleared by the Planning Ministry and
GOUP has given IDA confirmation that the project has been included in the
Sixth Plan (para 3.03).
GOUP Annual Budget
3.        Cycle of events covering the preparation and approval of annual
budget is:
(a) preparation of Proposed Estimate for a fiscal year in July
of the preceding year;
(b) approval of the Proposed Estimate by the Ministry of
Finance in April of the fiscal year; on approval the
budget is called Sanctioned Estimate which forms the
authority for the release of funds;
(c) revision of the Sanctioned Estimate in July of the fiscal
year based on performance during the first quarter of the
fiscal year, which document on approval in January of the
fiscal year become the Revised Estimate; and



- 64 -                         Page  2
(d) submission and approval of the final statement of excess
and savings on the budget in February of the fiscal year;
on approval this statement forms the Latest Estimate.
4.         Proposed Estimate is prepared for each Division by the Divisional
Forest Officer from targets agreed with each Range under a Division. Divi-
sional Estimates are consolidated at the office of the Conservator of Forests
and submitted to the Additional Chief Conservator for consolidation of all
Conservators' Estimates which after consolidation form the Estimates of the
Forest Department. Accounts and clerical staff are available at the levels
of Range, Division and Conservator for preparing Estimates, attending to
disbursements, recording transactions and preparing accounts. At the Addi-
tional Conservator level there is the Accounts Cell of the Forest Department
with an Accounts Officer responsible for finalization of the Department
Estimates, re-allocation of funds to the lower levels and internal audit.
5.         Budgetary allocation is made under two heads:  Plan-dealing with
development expenditures and Non-Plan - dealing with maintenance expenditure.
Under Plan funds are allocated for each Project, which is called Scheme, under
a separate Sub Head, with detailed allocation against items of expenditure.
6.         Revised Estimates for 1978/79 under Sub-Head Social Forestry (Scheme)
were Rs 13.73 m (financed by GOI) and 2.50 m (financed by GOUP). In the Pro-
posed Estimate for 1979/80, Rs 36.0 M is provided against Sub-Head Social
Forestry which will be sufficient to cover project expenditures till April 1,
1980. Due to the recent change in mode of financing of States by the Central
Government no distinction is made between contribution from GOI and GOUP in
the Proposed Estimate.
7.         Each level up to the Divisions is an Accounting Center with authority
for drawing and disbursement of ftnds. Range level has no authority for draw-
ing, but has power for disbursement from funds made available by its Division.
Funds available under Sub Head Social Forestry is reallocated against levels
- additional Chief Conservator, Conservator and Division-under items of Expen-
diture on a monthly basis.
8.         Funds are made available to each level through the State Bank of
India by way of a Cash Credit limit, which in effect places a drawing limit
in a Bank Account with one of the branches of the State Bank of India for the
fiscal year with sub cumulative limit for each month. Sub cumulative limit
permits during a subsequent month withdrawal of funds under spent for a month.
On withdrawal of funds an advice is sent by the Bank to the drawing officer
indicating the cumulative drawing against the limit with copies to the
Ministry of Finance, the Central Controlling authority.
Disbursement and Drawing Limits
9.         Drawing officers are authorized to draw and disburse without prior
sanction only against Staff Pay. Other expenditures items which include store
purchase and work expenditure require prior sanction of drawing officers within
the following statutory limits:



ANNEX 4
- 65                               Page  3
(a)  Rangers              -  No authority to sanction expenditure
(b)  Divisional Officer  -  Work expenditure upto Rs  10,000
Store purchase   upto Rs   5,000
(c)  Conservators         -  Work expenditure upto Rs  50,000
Store purchase   upto Rs  25,000
(d)  Additional Chief    -  Work expenditure upto Rs 250,000
Conservator             Store purchase upto   Rs  50,000
Expenditure beyond the limit of the Chief Conservator requires the sanction
of the Secretary Forest. All expenditures must be within the provision of
the budget.
10.       Revenue Receipts which are accepted only in cash or Treasury chalan
are credited with the Treasury, without utilizing them for disbursements.
Accounting Records and Internal Control
11.       Adequate books of accounts are maintained at all levels to facili-
tate the preparation of monthly accounts by each level other than the Range.
Since a Range is only a disbursing center, accounts of the Range are incor-
porated in the accounts of the Division. Monthly accounts are submitted by
each Accounting Center together with original vouchers for all payments over
Rs 100, direct to the Auditor General with copies to the immediate senior
level for management control and to the Accounting Cell for consolidation
and internal audit.
12.       Internal Control in each level for authorizing, and verifying pay-
ments is satisfactory.
Local Procurement
13.       Annually the Director Industries after inviting local competitive
bids, publishes a list of authorized suppliers and particulars of items avail-
able with specification and unit price for local procurement by the Public
Sector in the State. Procurement is permitted at these prices from any
authorized supplier: choice of supplier is left to the disbursement center
concerned. Procurement of items not listed by the Director Industries is
by local competitive bidding upto a value of Rs 2,000. Purchases over
Rs 2,000 require prior approval of the Director Industries who will either
specify the price and specification of the item and the name of suppliers or
instruct that procurement be by local competitive bidding. These procedures
are considered adequate for local procurement, which would be financed under
the proposed IDA credit.
Civil Works
14.       These are awarded to contractors by local competitive bidding, or
undertaken under force account by the Forest Department whenever no contractor
has been forthcoming or whenever bid prices are unreasonable. The procedures
adopted are considered adequate.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 4
Page  4
Plantation Works
15.       Land preparation, planting and maintenance, and nursery work will
be carried out by forest department under force account, with varying degree
of participation from the local community. Contracts following competitive
bidding will therefore not be practical.
Store Records
16.       Stores are classified into consumable and permanent articles and
physical records of receipts, issues and stores are complete and timely.
Physical verification is carried out annually in the case of consumable
articles and bi-annually in the case of permanent articles by gazetted
officers.
Physical Records
17.       Records of progress of work, more specifically in planting opera-
tions, is systematic and up-to-date. Both for management and audit purposes
monthly Planting Progress Reports are prepared by each Division with com-
parative figures of targets both in physical and monetary terms and sent to
the Auditor General, the immediate senior level and the Accounts Cell.
Annual Accounts
18.       Annual Accounts (summary of disbursements against items of expendi-
ture with comparative figures for the previous year and estimates for the year
under review) are prepared by each accounting center and consolidated by the
Accounts Cell.
Audit
19.       Auditor General in addition to auditing the monthly accounts is
responsible for the audit of the annual accounts. An audit team also visits
each Division once a year and carries out a detailed check of transactions
for a selected month. Accounts cell which is responsible for internal audit
carries out a continuous audit and visits a division at least once in two
years.
Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
20.       For the purpose of credit disbursements against statements of
expenditure, the Forest Department's institutional and staffing capabilities
as well as budgeting, accounting - both financial and physical, internal
control and auditing - both internal and external, procedures are adequate and
satisfactory. The Auditor General will audit the statements of expenditures
bi-annually and GOUP will furnish the reports to IDA. Supporting documents
and vouchers retained by the Auditor General will be made available for
inspection by supervision missions.



- 67 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 5
21.       Annual Accounts will be submitted for audit within six months of
the end of the financial year and audited by the Auditor General not later
than nine months after the end of such year. Audit procedure followed by
the Auditor General is satisfactory and in keeping with the requirements
of IDA.



ANEX S
- 68-                                 Table 4.1
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAl FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                 Disbursement
and Semester                            Semester              Cumulative
FY 80
1st                              0.2                     0.2
2nd                              0.3                     0.5
FY 81
1st                              0.8                     1.3
2nd                              1.4                     2.7
FY 82
1st                              1.7                     4.4
2nd                              2.0                     6.4
FY 83
1st                              2.3                     8.7
2nd                              2.5                    11.2
FY 84
1st                              2.6                    13.8
2nd                              2.7                    16.5
FY 85
1st                              3.0                    19.5
2nd                              3.5                    23.0
January 25, 1979



- 69 -
ANdNEX 4
UTTMA PRADESH SOCIA. FORESTRY PROJECT                                                          Chart 4.1
Protect l5plemantatloo Schedule
---- Pre-Board --  -- -------- Py I --                                            py 2 ---------_              ----------py 3 ----------------
items                                   Presentation
Staf ffTraining
staffing of 4 Existing SFD Divisions
Transfer ond Staffing of 6 Existing
Territorial Divisions to SFD
Est.blishment and Staffing
of New Divisions
-5 in PY I1                                                                                            
_S6 f PY 2
-7 de PY 3
Establish-ent and Staffing of
Communication Unitt
-3 in PY I
-  I in PY 2                                                                   .    ----_,
-   i fo PY 3
Establiebment and Staffing                                                                   __
of Monitoring Unit
Establish-ent ond Staffing of Planning,
7rfo. & Reporting Unit
In-Service Traoinig of Project Staff                                                           _       --_-__
Dverseas Trainiog
Study Tours
Research
FonnSation of Research Program
Expansion of  existing Centers                                           __-_-_-_--_-__-
Fstablichnent of New Research Center                                                                                            _--________^--
Surgeries
- 5b in PY S
- 25 in PY 1
- 30 in PY 2
- 35 in PY 3
Civil Works
Site Seletlon and Prepare Tenders
Construction                                                                                                                                                 . . .   .  .  .  .. ..
Equipnent
Purchase Vehicles S Equipment                                                                                . . . . . . . .
Pr-ject Execution
Raise  Seedlings                                                            ..........                        .........
Distribute Seedliogs for PYrn Forestry                                                  ......
Initiate Self-HeSp Pilot Scheme
Forward to IDA Senple of 10 Operational and                                                -   - -
Financial Palns for Plantations Already
Established
Extension Work at Village Level                                                                                             . .......
Planting   Season                ,._...___                                                                 __......
1egend:
-    target dates
------. no later thae
...     period of leaser activity
May 11, 1979



- 70                              ANNEX 5
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 5.1   Project Cost Summary
Table 5.2   Staff Number and Costs
Table 5.3   Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5.4   Training Costs
Table 5.5   Seed Testing and Research
Table 5.6   Nursery Costs
Chart 5.1   Forest Department Organization after the Project
Chart 5.2   Project Organization Chart
Chart 5.3   Organization at Divisional Level



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Costs Summary (million Rs)
Year      Year       Year       Year       Year          Total
1         2          3          4          5
Nurseries, including Farm Forestry
and Self-Help Pilot Scheme.                    6.04       5.92       8.21      10.23       5,.83        36.23
Seed Testing & Research                            .77        .72       .43        .43        .43          2.78
Training & Fellowships                            2.07      2.92       2.25       1.20       1.15          9.60
Plantings
Road                                           1.02       1.33       1.80       2.46       2.72          9.33
Canal                                          3.07       3.99       5.41       7.37       8.17         28.01
Rail                                             .65       .85       1.14       1.56       1.74          5.94
Village Lands                                    .57        .74      1.01       1.37       1.52          5.21
Degraded Forests                                1.41      1.83       2.48       3.38       3.74         12.84
Maintenance of Plantings                            -         .80      1.06       1.47       2.02          5.35          1
Sub-total Plantings                            6.72       9.54      12.90      17.61      19.91         66.68         e
Protection of Plantings                          8.84      1153      15,57      21.25      23.57         80.76
Project Organization
Staff & Operating Expenses                    11.06      15.34      21.38      22.55      23.61         93.94
Vehicles and Equipment                         4.91       6.71       6.89        .51        .23         19.25
Housing and Buildings                          5.94       6.50      10.63       2.31       2.99         28.37
21.91     28.55      38.90      25.37      26.83        141.56
Total Costs                                   46.35      59.18      78.26      76.09      77.72        337.,61
Total including Physical Contingencies
and Adjustments                          47.28      60.36      79.83      77.61     79.28         344.37
Total ineluding Physical
and Price Contingencies                  48.46      65.15      90.15     89.07    102.35         395.18         H X
January 25, 1979



Table 5.2
Page 1
00  .0 00-0000  CI         000  000000 4000  .000  00  4rtO40 400040   0  00  .00004
0NO40C00  CI       00.4  004044.40  .00.0  00  000.4440000    0  -'0  4400
0000000   01          .000  000.000 cr-.0  0.00  cOo  00000 00000   0 000  '00Cr-On
::;;r-u             t  j.j't0  .4: .4000000 N0000 2
-- -0
0
$4
00  .4 oo.000.0  ci        000    00000000  0'00  .-...4  .400000000    0  NO  00444440   0
*0                                                     .                 .   0.
0 ODONONO  01         4044'0  444fl ...N  000  .40  .00000          N  ON  ONNON
0  '0004000   I                                             - NC
.4 ..44.00400.4 .0     -'N ..NNN0.. .0 .ooo  oooooo, 0000 00.40   .4 00  00000
-  NON  -I                                                                             N
0                                                                                                       0
to
0.
--  .4                       00  .4N0.,.-t0 0(0 N   N  00  440"40 NO NOON    N  NO  NNNNN
cJ.40000   ooo4-oo.4-.-. '...                                                          0
.4 .00000 0  4        0.4.0  00.00(00 4.4o  000  .00  0000 0000.400004400
00  .4 00000   .0          000  .-.4-0000 000  000            000  NOCO    0  NO   .  . . .  '4
0
- .000000
.4N  .4 .4000.44           00.4400.0... -4.4 .0...N  N 0.-I 00  0000 N 0.400   -4 00  .4
I  -4                                                                                                    $4
0 .-.J                                                                                                       0
0  44        1   --  .4 .0000000              ON    0N.400000  000  .40  .40.-400 .4.4..4   N  00  00000   0
44 .4 I 41 o'-.'oooo0400                                                                                          0
04 '4    I 0$            .....40000                                                                              04
0  0     (01               '--'--'-'                                                                              '4
o  0
44    0                                                                                                            0
0. 0
4.    0                                                                                                            0
00     0.4.000.0  .0        000  ...000000400)         .4.4  .-..tNOONooo    0  NO  00000   .0
.4 '00404400  N        N0  .0N44000.o.40          .00  .0000000.00    N  NO  OONN.44   g
.4    0.40.4  0        000  ONoOOO.00              ON  NNNNN0.OON    '4 0.4  00000   
0  .0ON040( .4                                                                             0)
0 NNN 0
0. $40   0                           0
4j         o                                                                                                      4"
44$ .04 .0N40N.N                                                                                                  $4
0  00   4.                NONOCOC             .,04.O  .0.0t..0000004  000  ..I0  0000 0.0.4.4.0    N  040 00000   '4
04           4000.-IC                                                                                "0
444           o0 '440 No                                                                             "0
'-1                                                                                                   0
.0
00  "4 0.0.0000  0         000  000000000              .-.4  0.40.00.000.0    0  00  00000   "0
0
0  000000  0           NO.0  00004000.4.-)        .00  .0000  N.ON    .0 0.0  0000.4  $4
0  00.40.00  04        000..4.0.40    I   oo  0000 "0 NO.44   0  .00  0.4.4.40  '4
400000  0                                                                    -          10
N  0                                                                            44
ho        o                                                                                                        0
,0
000000
14         0  0.40000
$4
00  -  00  000  0          000000000000                00  04000000.0    0  00  .4000.0
22 2 5oo o  .$4
0.4.0               00(44                      (00  000000000    0000.4000
4-I          000000  .4
.40  0  OCIOCo  N          00t'4  00000.4(0.00   t II  ON  000.400000    0  00  0000.4
-4
$4
.4 NO  0.4O.-0 0000  00000000000000               0  00  00000   $4
oooo.00o           ....                                                                "0$4
$4
044.4  Co 0000000                    00000000004000000.400400000   0 00 00000  '4
000  00.0000.000  000  0.0  00040 000.o    0  00  0000.0  '4
000440.40           004.400
NO  (0 000.44                 u                           tOW   $4                  .00.0
4-         44             0  0                        4   404000                     000
0           4-           44                           04- 000000.                    0$40    "
44        440                   $4$4$4.-.'0444-       $40  .0  0.4.4444-4-     .4    40>      0
4- 4- 4- $4400            4     -.0044.400      $400  .444  $400 44'4o0o      0    0  0    0.
0  0  0 00                0    p4$4040.4.4    04444  .44-      000440              .4044
$4 44 4-4 too .           0       04444044  0  04-4    0  4400.00044.44              >00
0  0  0 $4 44  44        44    0000  0.0.04-  4400. 04-  0440.>    0.0.               00.44
$40  $4 04 >.    0               4.0h  .440.4   4-0  440  00000.00           $4  4-  4-o   40.
4400044  4400  00  00000444400    0 440  44000.0   -
00  '4 0   4   44         $400  '4440044.44440  '4044  *o  00      044c    44 044  04.404
4444 0  04-0.044   0        0.40.0                      4.  0.. ""0"00..4     4 04  ..4444
44       04400             0444  00404440'4-44  0440  044  0400.4404400    0. 4-0. to..'..40.44  '4
044  . .4044 0,4            0"00  44-4  0444440  004400   00000004444    0  00  0           44
4-0  0  >00.04-44           0044000044004-0  4-40  00  0004444444400    0 440 O4-4-4-u   o
440  0  .400000  44        0.to  -O4OoOflOo  (4440  44  000440.0000    44 044  00000
04  0  00044440  0                                                                   '.4 tototo.o  '4
0          iIii,w,tugji,,,,Iijr    4 ii 00040, 0
4 44                                    .0                            00404-  -
0                                    "0                            044044444
0         44         44                   .     44-                      .4             0
o                   0.    00                                      ' 0
I     0                    0    .40                 0'    0
I                          4-   440   04            0     0
0    .   44'        44-0  04-    $4                00                3
01 00    0   0            to>  4-0  .44           0  04 444  I
(I   .44-  0   '4         44044    44  .   44       0  4    04.4  .    4-
0440  00  44             0  0  4-4- 40        
000%   %                              .4               to a t
00   '.-.  44        (44444    4.  0           $4   '   044    $40  0   0
40    NooN            .4  04'                  0  .4  $40  00



Incremental Staff Salaries and Benefits
(Rs '000)
Annual
Unit              1                      2                      3             __   4                          5
Cost      (No.)       Cost        (No.)     Cost        (No.)      Cost      (No.)      Cost          (No.)      Cost          Total
Support Staff (Cont.)
Division HQ
Planning             - Asst. Director         16.8      (15)      252.0         (21)      352.8      (28)       470.4      (28)      470.4          (28)      470.4         2016.0
- Compiler               6.8       (30)     204.0         (42)      285.6      (56)       380.8       (56)      380.8         (56)      380.8          1632.0
- Draftsman              7.4       (15)     111.0         (21)      155.4      (28)       207.2       (28)      207.2         (28)      207.2           888.0
- Surveyor              14.9       (15)     223.5         (21)      312.9       (28)      417.2       (28)      417.2          (28)     417.2          1788.0
Information          - Compiler                6.8      (10)       68.0        (15)      102.0       (21)       142.8      (28)      190.4          (28)      190.4          693.6
& Reporting
Sub-total Support Staff                                        1913.0                 2420.5                 3073.7               3380.8                   3423.9        14211.9
Office Staff
State HQ             - Office Chief           10.5       (1)       10.5          (1)       10.5       (1)        10.5        (1)      10.5           (1)       10.5            52.5
- Head Assistant         8.6        (3)       25.8         (4)       34.4        (5)        43.0       (5)       43.0           (5)       43.0          189.2
- Senior Clerk           6.2        (8)       49.6         (8)       49.6        (8)       49.6        (8)       49.6           (8)       49.6          248.0
- Junior Clerk           5.7       (15)       85.5        (15)       85.5       (15)        85.5      (15)       85.5          (15)       85.5          427.5
- Stenographer           6.8       (12)       81.6        (12)       81.6       (12)        81.6      (12)       81.6          (12)       81.6          408.0
- Typist                  5.7       (7)       39.9         (7)       39.9        (7)        39.9       (7)       39.9           (7)       39.9          199.5
- Driver                 4.7        (8)       37.6         (8)       37.6        (8)        37.6       (8)       37.6           (8)       37.6          188.0
- Chowkidar              4.2       (10)       42.0        (10)       42.0       (10)        42.0      (10)       42.0          (10)       42.0          210.0
- Part time              8.0        -         32.0         -         32.0        -          32.0       -         32.0           -         32.0          160.0
Regional HQ          - Head Assistant          8.6       (3)       25.8          (4)       34.4       (5)        43.0       (5)       43.0           (5)       43.0           189.2
- Senior Clerk           6.2        (6)       37.2         (8)       49.6       (10)        62.0      (10)       62.0          (10)       62.0          272.8
- Junior Clerk           5.7       (12)       68.4        (16)       91.2       (20)       114.0      (20)      114.0          (20)      114.0           501.6
- Stenographer           6.8        (3)       20.4         (4)       27.2        (5)        34.0       (5)       34.0           (5)       34.0          149.6
- Typist                  5.7       (3)       17.1         (4)       22.8        (5)        28.5       (5)       28.5           (5)       28.5          125.4
- Draftsman              7.4        (3)       22.2         (4)       29.4        (5)        37.0       (5)       37.0           (5)       37.0          162.6
- Car Driver             4.7        (9)       42.3        (12)       56.4       (15)        70.5      (15)       70.5          (15)       70.5          310.2
- Bus Driver              5.0       (3)       15.0         (4)       20.0        (5)        25.0       (5)       25.0           (5)       25.0          110.0
- Cleaner                4.2        (3)       12.6         (4)       16.8        (5)        21.0       (5)       21.0           (5)       21.0            92.4
- Chowkidar              4.2       (15)       63.0        (20)       84.0       (25)       105.0      (25)      105.0          (25)      105.0          462.0
- Part time              4.0                  12.0                   16.0                   20.0                 20.0                     20.0            88.0
Division HQ          - Head Clerk              7.4      (15)      111.0         (21)      155.4      (28)       207.2       (28)     207.2          (28)      207.2           888.0
- Senior Clerk           6.2       (60)      372.0        (84)      520.8    (112)         694.4    (112)       694.4         (112)      694.4         2976.0
- Junior Clerk           5.7       (45)      356.5        (63)      359.1       (84)       478.8      (84)      478.8          (84)      478.8         2152.0
- Stenographer           6.8       (15)     102.0         (21)      142.8       (28)       190.4      (28)      190.4          (28)      190.4          816.0
- Typist                  5.7      (15)       85.5        (21)      119.7       (28)       159.6      (28)      159.6          (28)      159.6          684.0
- Jeep Driver            4.7       (15)       70.5        (21)       98.7       (28)       131.6      (28)      131.6          (28)      131.6          564.0
- Tractor Driver         5.0       (75)      375.0       (105)      525.0    (140)         700.0    (140)       700.0         (140)      700.0         3000.0
- Field Assistant        4.7     (105)      497.5        (147)      690.9      (196)       921.2     (196)      921.2         (196)      921.2         3952.0
- Chowkidar              4.2    (120)       504.0        (168)      705.6     (224)        949.8    (224)       949.8         (224)      949.8         4059.0
- Part time             10.0                150.0                   210.0                 280.0                 280.0                    280.0         1200.0    i
Sub-total Office Staff                                         3364.5                 4388.9                 5694.7               5694.7        (1034)    5694.7         24837.5   5
GRAND TOTAL                                                       9,815.6                13,700.5              19,242.0             20,407.1                 21,464.2       84,629.4
March 5, 1979



-74 -
INDIA                                                         ANNEX 5
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT                                           Table 5.3
Buildings, Housing. Vehicles & Equipment Costs
(M. Rs.)
Unit         Year             Year              Year              Year              Year
Cost           1                2                 3                 4                 5                 Total
'000 Rs    No.      Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.     Cost      No.     Cost       No.      Cost
A.  Buildings
Nursery Sheds                13.0       20      .26       30      .39       40      .52       -        -        -        -         90       1.17
Other Sheds                 10.0        40      .40       60      .60       80      .80       -        -        -        -        180       1.80
Forest Schools                                  .50               .90              1.00                -                 -                  2.40
Sub-total                                   1.16              1.89              2.32                -                  -                  5.37
B. Housgin
Category A                   42.5        9      .38        6      .26        6      .26       1       .04                          22        .94
Category B                   18.0       10      .18        8      .14        7      .13       3       .05                          28        .50
Category C                   12.5      160    2.00       135    1.69       255    3.19       45       .56       75      .94       670       8.38
Category D                    8.1       75      .61      120      .97      240    1.94    110         .89      130    1.05        675       5.47
Sub-total                                   3.17              3.06              5.52              1.54              1.99                 15.29
C. Land Costs
Category A                   21.5        9      .19        6      .13        6      .13       1       .02       -        -         22        .47
Category B                    9.0       10      .09        8      .07        7      .06       3       .03       -        -         28        .25
Category C                    6.5      160    1.04       135      .88      255    1.66       45       .29       75      .49       670       4.36
Category D                    3.9       75      .29      120      .47      240      .94    110        .43      130      .51       675       2.63
Sub-total                                   1.61              1.55              2.79                .77             1.00                  7.71
0). Vehicles
Forestry & Support
-Staff Car                40.0         4     .16        1      .04        1       04       -        -        _        _           6
Jeeps w/trailer         60.0       13      .78       19    1.14        19    114         -        -         -                  51       3
Tractor w/trailer       70.0       25    1.75         50    3.50        55    3.85        -       -         _        _        130       9.10
Motorcycle               8.0       35      .28       50       .40      55       .44      -        _                                     1.12
- Bicycle for Div. staff  .3         300      .09     400       .12      520      .16    342        .10       -        -       1562        .47
"    for Watchman    .3        286      .08      371      .11      502      .15    685        .21      760       .23    Z604          .78
- Publicity Van          120.0         2      .24        2      .24        1      .12       -        -        -        -          5        .60
- Bus                    120.0         2      .24        2      .24        1      .12       -        -        -        -          5        .60
Monitoring
- Jeeps                    60.0        5      .30        3      .18        1      .06       -        -        -        -           9        .54
- Motorcycles               8.0        6      .05        8      .06        6      .05       -        -        -        -         20        .16
Sub-total                                   3.97              6.03              6.13                .31                .23               16.67
E. Equipment
Forestry & Support
- Planting Equipment         25.0       10      .25        5      .12        6      .15       7       .18       -        -          28        .70
- Publicity Equipment    100.0           2      .20        2      .20        1      .10       -        -        -        -           5        .50
- Improved Stoves              .05       -       -       100      .005    250       .013   300        .015    350         .017   1000         .05
Office
-Typewriter                   5.0       40      .20       23      .12       25      .12       -        -        -        -          88        .44
- Calculator (Pocket)          .4       22      .01       24      .01       26      .01       -        -        -         -         72        .03
- Calculator (Tible)          2.0        9      .02       13      .02       14      .03       -        -        -        -          36        .07
- Calculator (Program)   100.0           -        -        -        -         1     .10       -        -        -         -          1        .10
-Punching Machine            10.0        -        -        -        -        1      .01       -        -        -         -          1        .01
-Duplicator                   8.0        9      .07        7      .06        8      .06       -        -        -        -          24        .19
-Telephone                    5.0        9      .05        7      .03        8      .04       -        -        -         -         24        .12
-Furniture                   10.0        9      .09        7      .07        8      .08       -        -        -         -         24        .24
- Miscellaneous               6.0        9      .05        7      .04        8      .05       -        -        -         -         24        .14
Sub-total                                     .94               .67               .76               .20                -                  2.59
TOTAL                                       10.85             13.21             17.52              2.82              3.22                 47.63
December 27, 1978



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY
Training Costs
(Rs '000)
--------------------------- Years  ---------------                      Total
Unit Cost               1            2               3             4            5        No.      Cost
/man
Training of Project Staff
Assistant Director                 25.0 x 2 yrs.    (9) 225.0   (19) 475.0    (18) 450.0   (13) 325.0   (5) 125.0    (32)  1,600.0
2 years at GOI School
Ranger                             12.5              (35) 437.5   (35) 437.5        -       -      -      -   (-)  -         (70)    875.0
1 year at GOI/GOUP School
Forester                           12.5              (70) 875.0   (70) 875.0    (70) 875.0,  (70) 875.0  (82)1,025.0  (362)  4,525.0
4 months at GOUP School
followed by 1 year later on
Forest Extension Worker             3.0             (168) 504.0  (168) 504.0   (166) 498.0    (-)   -          (-)  -        (502)  1,506.0
3 months at GOUP Schools
Special Training in Extension    0.2                (150)  30.0  (150)  30.0   (150)  30.0    (-)   -          (-)  -        (450)  _ 90.0
Sub-total                               2,071.5        2,321.5        1,853.0        1,200.0       1,150.0           8,596.0
Overseas Training
(2) 200.0      (2) 200.0    (-)   -        (-)  -         (2)    400.0
Assistant Director                100.0 x 2 yrs.      (-)  -
Forest Economist                  100.0 x 2 yrs.    (-)  -          (2) 200.0       (2) 200.0    (-)   -        (-)  -         (2)    400.0
Study Tours                        25.0               (-)  -       (10) 200.0       (-)  -              -       (-)  -        (10)    200.0
Sub-total                                   -            600.0          400.0            -           -               1,000.0
Total                                   2,071.5        2,921.5        2,253.0       1,200.0        1,150.0           9,596.0   a
February 8, 1979



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Seed Testing & Research Costs
(Rs '000)
Unit         Year             Year             Year               Year             Year
Cost           1                2                 3                 4                 5              Total
_____      No.    Cost      No.    Cost       No.     Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost      No.    Cost
A. Capital Costs
Buildings
Buildings and Fixtures
for new testing units    150.0        (1)   150.0       (1)   150.0       -        -        -        -                        (2)   300.0
Vehicles
Jeep w/trailer               60.0       1      60.0      -       -         -         -       -        -        -       -         1     60.0
Motorcycle                    8.0       4      32.0      3      24.0            -        -        -        -          -         7      56.0
Equipment
Scient.Equip. for
new units                  75.0       1     75.0       1      75.0       -         -       -        -        -      -         2    150.0
Scient.Equip. for
existing units             40.0       1     40.0       1      40.0       -        -        -        -        -      -         2      80.0
X-ray seed test equip.       50.0       1      50.0      -       -         -         -       -        -                -        1      50.0
Extension of exist.units   50.0         2    100.0                -        -        -                 -        -      -          2    100.0       I
04
Sub-total                                    507.0              28.90                -                -                -        -    796.0
B.  Operating Costs
Staff - Asst. Director         16.8       1      16.8       1     16.8        1       16.8      1      16.8      1      16.8             84.0
- Range-Officer          10.5       2     21.0       3      31.5        3      31.5      3       31.5      3     31.5             147.0
- Dep.Range Officer       6.8       4     27.2       8      54.4        8      54.4      8       54.4      8     54.4             244.8
- Permanent Labor         2.4       8     19.2      13      31.2       13      31.2    13        31.2    13      31.2             144.0
- Chowkdar                4.2       1      4.2       2       8.4        2        8.4     2        8.4      2      8.4              37.8
- Casual Labor                            50.0             100.0              100.0             100.0           100.0             450.0
Vehicle Running Exp.
- Jeep                    6.0       1      6.0       1       6.0        1        6.0     1        6.0      1       6.0             30.0
- Motorcycle              1.2       4      4.8       7       8.4        7        8.4     7        8.4      7      8.4              38.4
Travel Allowance
- A.C.F.                  3.6       1      3.6       1       3.6        1        3.6     1        3.6      1       3.6             18.0
- R.0.& D.R.O.            1.2       6       7.2     11      13.2       11       13.2    11       13.2    11      13.2              60.0
Supplies for research           1.0       2       2.0       4      4.0        4        4.0      4       4.0      4       4.0             18.0
Supplies for seed testing    50.0         2    100.0        3    150.0        3      150.0      3     150.0      3    150.0             700.0
Sub-total                                    262.0             427.5               427.5            427.5            427.5           1972.0
TOTAL                                         769.0            716.5               427.5             427.5           427.5           2768.0       u
December 27, 1978



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Nursery Costs by Plantation Models
Proportion                                                    Including         Including                            Total Cost
ha            of                                         Total           15% for          10% for          Cost/Plant             at
Planted      Model Area      Density      #/Model ha        Plants        Mortalities       Beating Up                             Nursery
(M)             (M)               (M)              (Rs)              (M Rs.)
1.  Road Side Plantation                7000
Polythene bag plants                            64%            1250            800            5.600           6.440            7.084            .56                  3.967
Direct Sowing                                   16%            1250            200            1.400           1.610            1,771            .00087                .002
Pindi Plants                                    20%             250             50             .350             .403            .443            .798                  .354
2.  Canal Side                         16000
Polythene bag plants                            75%            1650           1238           19.808          22.779           25.057            .56                 14.032
Direct Sowing                                     -             -              -              -               -                -                .00087               -
Pindi Plants                                     25%            370             93            1.488           1.711            1.882            .798                 1.502
3.  Rail Side                           4000
Polythene bag plants                            70%            1250            875            3.500           4.025            4.428            .56                  2.479
Direct Sowing                                     -             -              -              -               -                -                .00087               -
Pindi Plants                                     30%            355            107             .428             .492            .541            .798                  .432
4.  Village Lands                       5000
Polythene bag plants                             20%           1680            336            1.680            1.932           2.125            .56                  1.190
Direct Sowing                                    60%           1680           1008            5.040           5.796            6.376            .00087                .006
Pindi Plants                                     20%            325             65             .325             .374            .411            .798                  .328
5.  Degraded Forests                   13600
Polythene bag plants                             20%           1680            336            4.570            5.255           5.781             .56                 3.237
Direct Sowing                                    60%           1680           1008           13.709          15.765           17.342            .00087                .015
Pindi Plants                                     20%            325             65              .884           1.017           1.118            .798                  .892
6.  Farm Forestry
Polythene bag plants            4000           80%            1500           n.a.            4.800           5.520            7.176*           .560                 4.018
Pindi plants                                   20%             400           n.a.            0.320           0.368            0.478*           .798                 0.382
7.  Community Self-Help                 3080           80%           1500           n.a.            3.700            4.255           5.532*            .560                3.098
20%            400           n.a.            0.246           0.283            0.368*           .798                 0.294
Totals                             52680
Polythene bag plants                                                                                                        55.239            .560                30.933
Direct Sowing                                                                                                               25.489            .0087                 .023
Pindi Plants                                                                                                                 5.112            .798                 4.079        w
Grand Total                                                                                                                                                          36.227       u
0'
* A 30% casuality rate was assumed for farm forestry and community self-help.
January 26, 1979



INDIA
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
FOREST DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION (AFTER PROJECT)
Secretary Forestry
Non Territorial Urits
W9idlife, Research. Acco-Ct
Etc.
Panmn                                IMrgmnt                                    (uaonl                                    (GrhwliADC.FI
Eastern Circle IC.F                      Central Circle (C,F.)                  Kumaon Circle (C.F.)                       Tehri Circle (C.F.)                    Lucknow Region tC.F.)
Six Divisions IDy. C.F.                 Five Divisions (Dy. CF.)                Ni-e Divisions (Dy. C.F.)                 Nine Divisions (Dy. CF.)                 FvD wisio- (Dy.C.F.i
Southern Circle (C.F.)          -    Working Plan I Circle (C.F.)                 Western Circle IC.F.I                    Garhwal Circle (C.F.)                   Bareilly Region (C.F.)
Five Divisions IDY C F.)                Four Divisiors (Dy. CF.)                Seven Divisions (Dy. C.)                  Eight Divisions (Dy. C.F.|                Six Divisions (Dy. C.F.)
Bundelkhand Circle )C.F.) |            Working Plan II Circle C.F.)                                                           SiwalicCircle IC.F.)                   Faizabad Region IC.F.)
Four Divisions (Dy. C.F.)               Four Divisions (Dy. C.F.)                                                         Four Divisions (Dy. C.F.)                 Five Divisions (Dy. C.F.I
Agra Region (C.F.)
Six Division (Dy. CF.)
Varanasi Region (C.F.)
Six Divisions IDy. CF.)
TRADITIONAL FOREST DEPARTMENT  _                                                                             SOCIAL FORESTRY_
DIRECTORATE B k 2
World Ba,,k -20079



INDIA
U.P. SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
|VSECRETARY FOR FORESTRY
DISTATE POLICY REVIEW COMMITTEE  -  - - -    _- -      -_R      _ _ _ IRECTOS         Di RECTOSTDECTRSIRECTO
DIRECTOR SOCIAL FORESARY   |                      .  ACCOUNTS
CONSERVATOR              ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR      ASSOCIATE DIRECDAR                                                 A AIATE               DERCTA
RESEARCH &             TRAINING, RESEARCH &   PLANNING, INFORMATION    METRMIATEURSCTORING
DEVELOPMENT               COMMUNICATION             & REPORTING                                                     MOSITOR
ASSISTANT ASSISTANT      ASSISTANT                                                                                                                       _
VDIRECTOR       DIRECTOR
TRAINING    COMMUNICATION
.        I                     I                     I                 - ..                     I T               W
5 REGIONAL    ||REGIONAL;DIRECTOR ||REGIONAL;DIRECTOR ||RGONAL;DIRECTOR ||REGIONAL DIRECTOR ||REGIONAL.DIRECTOR|
|[COMM UNICATION UNITS ||    LUCKNOW                 BAREILLY            VARANASI               AGRA       j        FAIZABAD
DISTRICT~~~~~~ LEE COM               DVSONAL               6 DIVISIONAL        6DVSOA        |t, 6 DIVI :IONAL                5 DIVISIONAL
| DISTICT LEEL COMITTEE  t  ~    ~ ~ l DIRECORS    1-1 DIRIECTORS    r i   DIRECTOR      r1      DIRECTORS    r1       DIETR
LUCKNOVV          BAREILLY                ALLAHABAD            ETAWAH                AZAMGARH
SITAPUR           BANDAUN                  VARANASI            AGRA                  FAIZABAD
UNNAO             MORADABAD               JAUNPUR              MAINPURI              DEORIA
HARDOI            MEERUT                  PRATAPGARH           MATHURA               SULTANPUR
KANPUR            MUZZAFARNAGAR           GUAZIPUR             BULANDSHAHAR          RAEBAREILLY
SAHARANPUR              FATEPUR             ALIGARH
|VILLAGE FORESTL__________________________________________
COMMITTEES  
|  '                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Worldi Bank -19909
rt4
f(n Lu



INDIA
U.P. SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT                                            SFD UNIT
RANK                                  ORGANIZATION CHART AT DIVISION LEVEL                                       (TOTAL NUMBER OF
VILLAGES PER UNIT)
|         | ~~ASSISTANT DIRECTOR |    DIVISION
DEPUTY                                                DIVISIONAL DIRECTOR                        PLANNING          (3000RVILLAGES
ASSISTANT C.F.
RANGER                 RANGER            RANGER           RANGER           RANGER           RAGR                    RANGE
(600 VI LLAG ES)
| DEPUTY l
DEPUTY RANGER              RANGER
NUR'SERY
OD
COMMUN ITY               COMMUNITY                COMMUNITY
FORESTER                                   DEVELOPMENT               DEVELOPMENT              DEVELOPMENT         (200 VILLAGES)
FORESTER          ~~FORESTER                FORESTER
FOET   FRS FOET   FRS FOET   FRS
FOREST GUARD                              EXTENSION    EXTENSION   EXTENSION    EXTENSION   EXTENSION    EXTENSION  (100 VILLAGES)
WORKER      WORKER   |WORKER          WORKER       WORKER       WORKER
NURSERY ||NURSERY|d  l
MALI   l l   MALI  |n ulun
World Bank- 19910                 @



,  .i- -                     ANNEX 6
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
The Forests of Uttar Pradesh
1.   Distribution and Principal Species
2.   Forest Areas under the Authority of the Forest Department,
Subdivided by Principal Forest Species
3.   Legal Status, Management Authority and Size of Forest Areas
Uttar Pradesh Forest Department
1.   Organization of UP Forest Department to date (Chart)
2.   Staff Categories and Strengths - April 1978
3.   Forest Department Expenditures and Revenue 1973/74-1977/78
4.   Plantation Establishment - Physical Achievements 1973/77
5.   Forestry Staff Training
6.   Forest Research Organization
Appendix 6.1   Organization Chart
Appendix 6.2   Forestry Research Programs
Appendix 6.3   Research and Development - Staff
Strengths 1978
Estimates of Land Available for Tree Planting in UP
Detailed Cost Estimates
Nursery Costs: Polypot and Pindi Plants
Alternative Planting Techniques and Costs
Maintenance Costs
Protection Costs
Detailed Yield Assumptions
Staff Salaries and Allowances



IBRD   14119
78-                                        80,                                        82'
CHINA
HIMACHAL                                                                                                                                           BHUTA
U,'t.  I
PRADESH
X/
UTTARKASHI
INDIA      sANZADESH
r
CHAMOLI
HRADUI>
TEHR)GARWAL/
HARYANA                                                                                                                                          SRI LANKA
PITHORAGARH
-30'              SAHARA PUR                PAURI                                                                                                    84'           3 0'-
I N D I A
ALMORA       f-         J'
UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
MUZAFFARNAGAR                                                                                     FOREST    COVER
BIJNOR
C/
MEERUT                              NAINITAL                                                          Dstricf Boundaries
RAMPU                                                                 State  Botindaries
ELHI"     GHAZIABAD                                 -7
L)                        MORADABAD                                                                                International Boundaries
Project Area Boundary
BARE[[Y      PILIBHIT                                               Forested Areas
BULANDSHAHAR                                                                                           Rivers
BUDAUN                    J
AKHIMPURKHER
r1HA11AHAN1R,1/                                                                                          281-
MATHURA    AL GARH                                                                      N,
ETAH
BAHRA
SHAPUR
HARDOI
AGRA            MA NPURI                                                               GONDA
V)                                              LRRUKHABADV
'-IUCKNCW
BASTI      GORAKFIPUR 
N'                                                  BARABANKI"
DEORIA"
MADHYA    PRADESH:                               KANPUR             UNNAC                                  D
JALAUN
RAIBARILI
J_      IUITANPUR                                                 26'-
-26'                                                                           <
-T                                 p                                          AZAMGARH
JHAN5J                                 IATIH Lll         PRATAPGARH                                       BALLIA
HAMIRPUR
UNPUR               GAZIPUR
BANDA
ALLAHABAD
RA ASI
43-
LALITPUR t,_                                                                              MIRZAPUR                     BIHAR
20    40    60    80    ?00
MILES
0        40        10       120
KILOMETERS
Th.d--      -d -d Ih,,                                                              24'-
-24'                                         '-d-
ffil--' -y pdq-,1   /.!7,1 .-  f-y I ...... y ,,,y
78'                                        10.                                        82'                                               MARCH  1979



-     _ _ _ _     ___________                _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _                  ~IBRD      14 12 0
7B'                               80,~~~~~~~~~~O                               82'                             EPE                     f  ,,o
H IMACHAL                                                                                                                                                   BHrA
PRADESH                                                                                                                                      Utt.k-...  \ 
UTTARKASHI 
{    (r                                                                                    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[)A  - AoIdEh
-K.   ?                  r 1A[UNCHAMOLI                                                                                    ,stiodapISp r
HARYANA                     ~~~~~TEHRIGARWAL//
d~~*.l ~~~~'   >> ~~~P] THORAGARH    -
-30'                A sAA   PUR               PAURI                                                                                                           84'           30'-
ALMORA           ~        fN I
__   y   y  ~~~~~UTTAR PRADESH SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
MUZAFtARNAGAR kE INtORe                                                             /     SOCIAL  FORESTRY  ORGANIZATION
MEERUT                NAIN'IAL~~~~~~~~~~~ District rHeadquarters ---  District Boundaries
ILls   Divisional Headquarters  -     -State Bounidaries
('SELHC')       HAAA          MRAAA                               L                            D     Regional Headquarters               I nternational Boundaries
rj State rteadquarters           -     Forest Region Boundaries
PlUSHY              j~~~~~~ Project Area                     I i,nkage aC two or rmore
SAREILLY        PI IBITdstricts to mcRe one forest
BULANDSHAHAR                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~division.
HAHJAHNPLJR   AKHIMPURKHERI                                                                                28%.
MATHURA\  ALIGARH                               aHHAINU                                                                                                          S
Z                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHRAICH
c              GR              MINURGONDA   ((
* )FARRUKHAA
<LUCKNOW\                          RASTi      KG~~~~ORAKHnUR   L
(75                                                                           )<jA~~~~~~~~~EAWHRA ANK 
)  KAt.PUR                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEORIA
~e-  ADHYA  PRADESH                                    KAPRIZBD7
26'                                                                                       SULTANPUR~~~~~~~~~~AEPU
JHAt'aSI  ,IAMRPUR      ***+-               ~PRATAPGARHAZM RH                                    BLA
BANDA                                      ANR                     A'R>/7
,%A.   L.~P>.ur~1..                   0                               ALLAHASAD       AVAN>SI                       ...
LAUTPUR t_IRAUS                                                                                                               BIHAR
20 40      6e           20  1F
0    0     40 MLE                 too0  1MRC20
KILOMETERS                                       . 
oftr Iedr   f, ttrrport to  hwih it in attaohn   rh    eorna,n    sd -rd thn
-240                                          itots,r ObeonO hin mop 00 nOt -mply Ot th, PI,t If thN World B-rk .nd to                                                        4'
enreptarrr- of .. h b-odarren
780                                           S0,                                          820                                                    AC    99



