CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 925 IN
Projeet Agreement,
<Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated June 21, 1979
'4t


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 925 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT- dated June 21, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between India, acting by its President (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Associa-
tion has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount. in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar
Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are herein4fter set forth; and
(B) Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the Project
described in Sche.dule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.


﻿4P4
-2-
Section 2.02. In order to facilitate the carrying out of the
Project, Uttar Pradesh shall establish, by December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a) a State Policy Review Committee with responsibility
for, inter alia, overall policy decisions affecting the Project;
(b) a Project Implementation Committee with responsibility
for, inter alia, coordinating the activities of the various
departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh concerned with the
Project; and
(c) a District Level Committee in each district of the
Project Area with responsibility for, inter alia, coordinating
interdepartmental activities in the district.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision, for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Uttar Pradesh to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Uttar
Pradesh shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Uttar Pradesh: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
*~Z'


﻿-3-
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the bene-
fits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds of the Credit so made available
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (b)
above, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to, the Association quarterly
Planting Progress Reports.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associ-
ation and Uttar Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and furnish
to the Association, a report, of such scope and in such detail
as ,the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Associ-
ation and Uttar Pradesh of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
OI
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Uttar Pradesh shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be


﻿-4-
required for carrying out the Project and, if requested by the
Association, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 2.08. In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, Uttar
Pradesh shall, except as the Association may otherwise agree,
cause the plantings ch the sides of roads to be confined to
national, state and liin district roads, and plantings on the
sides of canals to be confined to main and branch canals.
Section 2.09. Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a model contract, satisfactory to the Association,
on the establishment of village plantations, with provisions
covering, inter alia, the following matters:
(a) the role and involvement of the village;
(b) the contribution to be made by SFD; and
(c) the respective benefits to be shared between the village
and SFD.
Section 2.10. Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, by December 31, 1979, a research program, satisfac-
tory to 'the Association, designed to meet the needs of social
forestry in the Project Area.
Section 2.11. Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association,
operational and financial plans for cost recovery purposes, for
ten representative village plantations established under the
Project, by March 31, 1980; and
(b) ensure that at least the labor and material costs
incurred by SFD in establishing plantings will be recovered.
Section 2.12. For the purposes of carrying out Paii B of
the Project, Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a) establish, in consultation with the Association, by
April 1, 1980, and thereafter maintain and operate, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit;


﻿-5-
(b) prepare and furnish to the Association, for its com-
ments, by June 30, 1980, a work program for the said Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit;
(c) establish, by April 1, 1980, at least three Communica-
tion Units.
Section 2.13. Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that field staff
will live in or near the areas assigned for their operations and,
to this end, shall provide said staff with such low-cost housing
or rental allowances as may be necessary for such purpose.
Section 2.14. In order to ensure the mobility of SFD field
staff, Uttar Pradesh undertakes to make available:
(a) to all eligible staff who are in need of credit for
the purchase of motorcycles or bicycles, such credit on terms
and conditions designed to provide incentive for the purchase
of said motorcycles or bicycles; and
(b) such financial incentive, including appropriate travel-
ling allowances, as required to encourage optimum use of the
motorcycles and bicycles purchased pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Uttar Pradesh shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall cause its Forest
Department to maintain separate accounts of expenditures made
under the Project.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) have said accounts and finan-
cial statements in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of said accounts for such year as so audited


﻿6 -
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditor, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
J                requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement;
or
(ii) the date on which the Develoment Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Uttar Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-7-k
speéified or at such other address as such party shall have,1
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary, Forest Department
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Vidhan Bhavan
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
India
Cable address:
SECRETARY FORESTS
Lucknow, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf, of Uttar Pradeh may be taken or executed
by the Secretary, Forest Department or such other person or per-
sons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in vriting.
Section 5.03. Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of the person or persons who will,. on behalf of
Uttar Pradesh, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Uttar Pradesh pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of whigh shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿.-


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedure
I.   Except as provided in PartsA*2  and A.3 hereunder, all con-
tracts shall be let on the basis of competitivelbidding advertised
locally under"..procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.1  Motorcycles and bicycles may be procured by, individual staff
through the provision of loans made by Uttar Pradesh out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
3.   Civil works, not'in excess of 30% of the total of' civil T#brks
financed out of =,the' -proceeds of the Credit and' all 'plantation
works may be carried out by force accounte
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
I.- With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment and
vehicle  \ 3 estimated to cost  '.,the equivalent of $ 100,60"0 'or more:
(a) Before bids are invited.., Uttar Pradesh shall furnish
to-the AsOciation.' for its coLments, the text of the Invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a'description of the advertising procedures' to be
followed for the bidding, andshall make'2such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Ass/ociat.ion shall reasoindbly
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents ",shall
require the Association's concurrence before, it is issite'd to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Uttar
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is ma de,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
-intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review,. a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids' received, and such other
information.as the A,6,socilation shall reasonably request. The
Association shall-, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform Uttar Pradish
and state the reasons for such,determination.


﻿-10-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association' s doncurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the AssociaQion of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, -Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform Uttar Pradesh and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
1than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent- with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.
tjA
k4


