@0
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 925 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1979
(r :


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 925 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1979, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar
Pradesh, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Uttar Pradesh)
with the- Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Uttar Pradesh the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms *and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Uttar Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association,. dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the "Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions.)
Section 1.02, Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh,
a State of India, or any successor thereof;
I C


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "SFD" means the Social Forestry Directorate within
the Forest Department of Uttar Pradesh; and
(d) "Project Area" means the Gangetic Plains of Uttar
Pradesh.
.                  ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made)'in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
IWO4


﻿N
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commenping August 15, 1989 and ending Febru-
ary 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on February 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of'1%) of such principal.amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of.the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any-limitation or restriction
upon .any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
thereiil set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh to
perform 6uch obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement; and


﻿-4-
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General,
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Uttar
Pradesh.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Uttar Pradesh has been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary governmental action; and
(b) that the Association has been furnished by Uttar Pradesh
with a model contract, satisfactory to the Association, pursuant
to Section 2.09 ,of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly autorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh, and is
leg4ly binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date September 20, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Sec-
retary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance,
Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses. are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the ,Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address,",
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
1he amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                  Dollar EIuivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                     1,250,000       50%
-(2) Equipment and                   1,950,000
vehicles
(a) directly imported                         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manufac-
tured                                     100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                           70%
(3) Direct Planting                11,000,000       50%
Expehditures
(4) Staff Salaries                  5,650,000      50%
(5) Training                        1,150,000      100%
(6) Unallocated                     2,000,000
TOTAL               23,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿7                                                 1-
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbur,ement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payment for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, in respect of Categories (2) (3) and (5) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1979.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of' the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not' needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿)-8-
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is intonsistent with
the procedures set forth 426  referred to in this Agreement- no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds. of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any otherright, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expen
ditures which--would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
i
- 1
na
s.I


