FILE COPY                                  Document of
The World Bank-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-219 1-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
FIRST SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 22, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation. 



XURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1977)
Currency Unit: Algerian Dinar (DA)
US $ 1.00 = D.A. 4.05
D.A. 1.00 = US $ 0.247
D.A. 100 = US $ 24.70
D.A. 1000 = US $ 247.00
D.A. 1,000,000 = US $ 246,914.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
APC         - Assemblge Populaire Communale
APW         - Assemblge Populaire de Wilaya
BNEH        - Bureau National d'Etudes Hydrotechniques
COMEDOR     - C6mite Permanent d'Etudes, de Developpement, d'Organisation
et d'Amenagemement de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
DWH         - Direction de la Wilaya d'Alger Chargee de l'Hydraulique
ECOEVA      -lEntreprise Comunale des Eaux de la Ville d'Alger
MHLIE       - Ministare de l'Hydraulique, Mise en Valeur des Terres et
de 1'Environnement
SACE        - SociWre Algerienne des Compteurs d'Eau
SEDAL       - Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger
SONADE      - Societe Nationale de,Distribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle
ft          - foot                          km                  - kilometer
g           - gallon                        m                   - meter
ha          - hectare                       m3                  - cubic meter
hp          - horsepower                    mm                  - millimeter
lcpd        - liters per capita per day   min                   - minute
kw          - kilowatt                      sec                 - second



FM OfFFICAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiaries:       SEDAL (Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger)
(US$78 million, equivalent) and the Ministry of
Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environment (MHLIE)
for engineering studies (US$4 million, equivalent).
Amount;              US$82 million equivalent
Terms:               Seventeen years, including 4 years of grace at 7.45 per-
cent per annum.
Reimbursement        SEDAL would reimburse to Government an amount equivalent
Terms:              to the Bank loan (US$78 million) over a period of 17
years, after 6 years of grace at 7.45 percent per annum.
Project              The proposed project comprises primarily the construction
Description:        of combined sewer interceptors, the first stage of a sewage
treatment plant, and technical assistance to SEDAL. By
intercepting the discharge of wastewaters into El Harrach
River and treating them by the activated sludge process,
the proposed project would (i) help the Government achieve
its priority objective of abating water pollution and its
associated health hazards in the city of Algiers; this in
turn would permit redevelopment of the affected areas near
the River and therefore allow expansion of the Algiers
metropolitan area and relieve population congestion in the
inner city; (ii) permit reuse of the treated sewage in
irrigation or the recharge of the Mitidja Plain's ground-
water aquifer; this would reduce investments in water
supply. The proposed project through its technical
assistance components would assist the Government in the
reorganization of the sector's administration and manage-
ment in Algiers. The studies proposed in this project
for the cities of Oran and Constantine would assist the
Government in the formulation of investment planning and
decision making procedures. The risks mainly relate to
the two following considerations (a) similar work has not
yet been executed in Algeria and (b) SEDAL is a new type
of public utility and represents a significant innovation
in sector management. However, in view of the expected
benefits the proposed project is well worth the risks
involved. It would consist of the following elements:
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(a) construction of: (i) combined sewer interceptors,
two sewage pumping stations, first stage of a sew-
age treatment plant for an equivalent population
of 750,000; (ii) protective embankments for the
proposed sewage treatment plant and an existing
water plant; and (iii) SEDAL's headquarters;
(b)  Supply of operational equipment for SEDAL such as
cleaning and maintenance equipment for sewers;
(c)  Consulting Services (about 1850 man-months, the
cost of which is on the average estimated at $6,300
per man-month including all contingencies) for:
(1) management assistance (including financial,
tariff and economic studies) to SEDAL;
(ii) training program for SEDAL's staff;
(iii) construction supervision of the works; and
(iv) water supply and sewerage studies for the
cities of Oran and Constantine.
Estimated Cost:
------(US$ Million)-------
Local     Foreign      Total
Equipment and civil works                 38.23       45.61       83.84
Operational equipment for SEDAL             0.07       0.86        0.93
Consulting services                         5.16       6.86       12.02
Local taxes and customs                     2.39        -          2.39
Physical contingencies                      4.23       5.12        9.35
Price escalation                          22.13       23.55       45.68
Total                                      72.21      82.00      154.21
Financing Plan:
(US$ Million)
Bank Loan                                   82.00
Government                                  72.21
154.21



Estimated
Disbursement:
FY79     FY80      FY81     FY82      FY83
Annual                      5.97    11.56    25.17    22.65    16.65
Cumulative                  5.97    17.53    42.70    65.35    82.00
Economic Rate
of Return:          8 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 1810a-AL of March 16, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A FIRST SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$82.0 million to help finance a first sewerage project. The loan would have
a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.45 percent
per annum. In view of the expected 5-year construction period of the project,
SEDAL (Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger) would reimburse to Govern-
ment an amount equivalent to the Bank loan (US$78 million) over a period of
17 years after a 6-year grace period, with interest at 7.45 percent per annum.,
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Algeria" (1315-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 10, 1977. An economic mission visited Algeria in May/June 1977 and
December 1977 and its report is being issued. The main conclusions of the
mission are given in the following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending 1980.
These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by referendum
in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are as follows: (i) to expand and
organize the production base, enabling the economy to reach, by about 1980, a
stage of self-sustained growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve economic
independence, which implies that the country would rely first on its own
resources for development, although international economic relations would be
expanded and diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution, partic-
ularly among regions. These objectives, and the strategy which has evolved
towards their implementation, take into account the country's physical and
socio-economic potential; the country's leadership is deeply committed to
them.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks and austerity in consumption are the main elements of
Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter,introduced in
1976,places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects of
the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means of
accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must hence-
forth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and imple-
ment projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the rates of



- 2 -
development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specifically
underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for increasing
incomes and improving their distribution and for substituting agricultural
imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of economic and
social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives with maximum
efficiency, while the principle of central planning of the economy will be
maintained. Workers' participation in new management structures, which have
been introduced since 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of
people's assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already
effective at local government level, has been introduced at the national level
by the new constitution approved in November 1976. Private enterprise's con-
tribution to national economic development will be encouraged in small agri-
cultural, industrial and retail trade enterprises.
5.        During the past four years, Algeria has been executing its second
four-year Plan, 1974-77. With the improved financial prospects resulting
from increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the Government decided
to accelerate considerably the country's long term strategy. The objectives
of the Plan were to increase investment rapidly, to broaden the productive
base and the economic and social infrastructure of the country, to shift the
distribution of investment in favor of non-industrial sectors and interior
regions, and to improve substantially the employment of unskilled labor and
the living standards of disfavored social groups. The Plan strategy empha-
sized implementation of the decentralization policy.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the first three years of the Plan. Investment rose sharply in current
prices from DA 13.3 billion in 1973 to DA 34.0 billion (US$8.2 billion) in
1976. Employment creation was substantial; the unemployment rate in non-
agricultural sectors fell to an estimated 10 percent in 1976 from 17 percent
in 1973. GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it aver-
aged 10 percent per annum. A high rate of national savings, averaging 44
percent of GDP, was achieved. During the first two years of the Plan, however,
total investment became very high in relation to Algeria's financial and human
resources. Furthermore, an excessive share of investment continued to be
devoted to industry with consequent increased development lags in other
sectors. In 1976, the Government introduced a program to correct these
imbalances. In real terms, non-hydrocarbon industrial investment was reduced
from its level in 1975, while public investment in other sectors increased by
34 percent, indicating a new trend towards a more balanced sectoral distribu-
tion of investment which has been accentuated in 1977. The stabilization of
investment in industry, combined with better management of stocks and imports
and substantially increased hydrocarbon exports, reduced the pressures on the
balance of payments that had developed in 1975. Net foreign reserves rose in
1976 by $0.6 billion to three months of imports at year's end.
7.        Developments were not as positive in other areas.  Although external
financing requirements were reduced in 1976, Algeria continued to borrow
heavily, especially from commercial banks, in order to secure the financing of



- 3 -
new projects, particularly for gas development. This will cause a steep in-
crease in service obligations in the years immediately ahead, and thus limit
correspondingly Algeria's capacity for further borrowing. Following a marked
improvement in 1974 resulting from higher oil revenues, the domestic financial
situation also deteriorated in 1975 and 1976. The overall Government budget
showed large deficits. Credit to the economy and money supply increased
sharply. These developments reflected the considerable investment effort of
the country, the large current financing needs of public enterprises, and the
high degree of subsidization of the economy.
8.        The economic and financial situation in 1977, the last year of the
current Plan, has been, on the whole, favorable. GDP growth continued at a
high rate (about 10 percent), although agricultural output was adversely
affected by weather conditions and hydrocarbon output growth somewhat decel-
erated. An increase of 10 percent in crude oil export prices took place at
the beginning of 1977 and provided Algeria with the resources to further
increase investment. In line with the policy to shift investment in favor of
lagging sectors, some 57 percent of fixed investment was budgeted for non
industrial sectors, such as transportation, education, training, housing,
urban services, regional development and agriculture. The growth of imports
resumed following their stabilization in 1976 and the balance of payments
current account deficit widened, amounting to an estimated $2 billion. Net
external assets, however, remained stable over the year thanks to disburse-
ments on external loans contracted in previous years. A substantial reduction
in the recourse to new commercial loans, suppliers credits and bank credits,
was achieved in 1977. Government savings increased by about 50 percent due
to large increases in hydrocarbon receipts, continued austerity in current
budgetary expenditures and an appreciable reduction in price subsidies. The
overall Treasury deficit, however, widened because the Government increased
its investments and capital transfers to public and collective enterprises.
9.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with
vigor, especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist Sector and Agrarian Revolution are now responsible for their produc-
tion and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities and
the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have begun
to have a beneficial impact on output and financial results of these units.
In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the "socialist man-
agement" system which should have a beneficial effect on efficiency, since it
encourages decentralization of financial and technical management from the
enterprise level to the more manageable production unit. Decentralization of
the financial system, as well as decentralization in other sectors in general,
requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial management proce-
dures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976 and 1977 Finance
Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting discipline in the
enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen the banks, which will
be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and strengthening of the
distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricultural products, still
call for important measures to be fully efficient.



- 4 -
10.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor
especially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contri-
bute to raising the living standards of those groups, have included increases
in the guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer
prices for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities. The
disadvantaged groups have also benefited from the creation of non-agricultural
employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, creation of small and
medium scale enterprises at the regional and local levels, construction of
public housing, especially in rural areas, and rapid development of free health
care, education, training and other social services. Overall, government
current and capital expenditure, having a direct impact on social development,
increased to 57 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1976, from
45 percent in 1973.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities is
very advanced at the wilaya (province) and communes (municipality) levels and
is a major determinant to the country's regional development. In addition to
the location, in the interior of the country, of heavy industrial investments
under the national Plan, special programs for the least favored wilayate, spe-
cial urban development (PMU) and commune development programs (PCD) have been
implemented since 1974. The establishment of local enterprises in various
parts of the country in construction materials and other small scale indus-
tries has been successful in creating employment, using local resources, and
satisfying local demand. The regional and local plans and programs have
generally achieved their objectives with the exception of the "PMU" and the
small and medium-scale enterprise programs, which suffered delays due to
insufficient capacity at the local level for identification, preparation and
execution of projects. These latter programs were speeded up in 1976 and 1977
in most of the wilayate. New investment locations for several large scale
projects bear little relation to market and factor availabilities. They may
be expected to result in high investment and operating costs. The Government
is aware of this, and considers these additional costs as the price of devel-
oping outlying regions.
12.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1977 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The plan is expected to
start in 1979 while 1978 would be a transitional year. The investment stra-
tegy, which is likely to be adopted, should be consonant with the country's
long term objectives and strategy. It is likely to increase the relative
emphasis on social sectors, especially housing, agriculture and water develop-
ment. Priority will continue to go to hydrocarbon development as a means of
accumulating financial resources. In contrast, investment in other industrial
sectors is likely to be moderated and more strictly allocated, in order to
complete on-going projects, to achieve forward and backward linkages with
existing industries, and to relieve constraints on the optimum use of existing
capacities. It will, in addition, be adjusted more closely to the rates of
development in non-industrial sectors and to the availability of financial and



human resources. The authorities have recently underscored forcefully in pub-
lic declarations the need for increased efficiency, for reduction of wastage
and for better financial management of the national companies. The next Plan
is therefore also expected to give special attention to measures and programs
aiming at improving economic management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and
bottlenecks and, generally, making the economic system more efficient.
13.       Algeria's prospects will depend on four main factors:  the growth of
hydrocarbon exports, the level and composition of the country's investment,
its capacity for future borrowing, and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Bank projections show that the country should
maintain a relatively rapid economic growth in all sectors (about 9 percent
yearly) during 1978-1981. Thereafter, during 1982-1986, GDP growth would
remain high in non-hydrocarbon sectors, while it would slow down in the hydro-
carbon sector because of the projected decline in crude oil output. The
decline in crude oil output after 1982 would, however, be offset to a large
extent by expected increases in condensate and natural gas output and the
expected rise in real gas price. The resource gap of the economy would remain
high until 1980, with consequent large external capital requirements, espe-
cially to finance gas and condensate development for export. The financial
constraint, however, appears somewhat more binding in the years immediately
ahead than projected before because of Algeria's heavy borrowings in 1975 and
1976, the consequent rapid increase in its debt service obligations, and the
expected decrease in the real price of crude oil in 1978 following the recent
OPEC decision. Thus, the need to strictly modulate the level of the country's
investment in relation to the availability of financial resources is expected
to dominate the strategy of the next Plan.
14.       Production forecasts in the non-hydrocarbon sectors depend not only.
on investment, but also on the efficiency of the economic system. This fac-
tor, which is determinant to Algeria's economic prospects, lends itself only
to a largely qualitative evaluation. Progress in the area of economic plan-
ning and management began in 1976 and 1977, with emphasis on the entry of
projects into full production, utilization of capacities, intersectoral
project coordination, interindustrial linkages and, to a lesser extent,
financial management of the enterprises. Much remains to be done, however.
As indicated above, the strategy of the next Plan is expected to be mainly
centered on investments and measures designed gradually to eliminate con-
straints on economic efficiency. Two factors may work in favor of improving
economic efficiency in the years ahead: (i) the industrial experience that
Algeria has acquired after more than ten years of accelerated development, and
(ii) the effect of the redistribution of investment aimed at helping the lag-
ging sectors to catch up and improving use of existing capacities. The decen-
tralization policy should also help greatly to improve the economic system--
provided it is supported by strengthening of planning and supervision at the
central level, revision of price and credit policies and development of the
financial system. Algeria counts on external services to assist in relieving
existing constraints on efficiency.



- 6 -
15.       Algeria will have to pursue an active, although prudent, external
borrowing policy. During 1978-81, external borrowing requirements are pro-
jected to average about US$3.6 billion annually in terms of commitments while
a temporary decrease in external reserves is expected.  The projected commit-
ments are considerable in view of Algeria's debt carrying capacity. In terms
of access to external sources of financing, these amounts appear manageable
since the gas contracts which Algeria has entered into generally provide for
partial financing of gas treatment and liquefaction plants. The amounts which
should be mobilized for gas and condensate development are expected to consti-
tute more than 70 percent of the projected financing requirements from com-
mercial sources during 1978-81. Suppliers' credits should be available to
finance other industrial investments most of which will probably be imple-
mented by foreign contractors. Borrowing from official sources should be
relatively small. Official sources include OECD and centrally planned coun-
tries, the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC, which signed
a financial and Trade agreement with Algeria in April 1976.
16.       Although the resource gap is projected to disappear in the early
1980's, the balance of payments would continue to show current account deficits
because of interest payments on external loans.  In addition, commercial loans
and credits with short maturities in relation to the gestation periods of
investments will induce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The
country thus faces borrowing requirements well into the 1980's, but in decreas-
ing amounts in relative terms. These could be met by new suppliers' and
buyers' credits linked to future projects. The experience Algeria has acquired
on the international financial markets should enable it to manage its external
borrowing requirements, and possibly also to improve the conditions of future
external commercial loans. At the end of 1976, aware that liquidity problems
could be caused by the heavy recourse to external borrowing by public enter-
prises, the Government set up an External Financing Committee. The Committee
is chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank; it examines all external-credit
requests by the enterprises and the terms of borrowing, and monitors external
indebtedness. Algeria has not used IMF resources. Its IMF quota is SDR 130
million. As of the end of 1977, Algeria's holdings of SDRs amounted to SDR
46.2 million, equivalent to 114.5 percent of its cumulative position.
17.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt, outstanding and
disbursed, was estimated at $7.6 billion ($12.3 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 40 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 13.7 percent
of goods and non-factor services exports in 1975 to 16.0 percent in 1976 and an
estimated 17 percent in 1977. With the projected new borrowings, debt service
may rise to a level between 22 and 23 percent of exports by the early 1980's.
It should decline subsequently, as the large condensate and gas projects, pre-
sently underway or planned, begin to generate increasing export revenues. Bank
lending, past and projected, represents only a small fraction of the country's
external financing requirements. At the end of 1976, the portion of Algeria's
total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was estimated at 1.5 per-
cent; this share will rise somewhat over the next years, but is projected to
remain below 6 percent at the end of the decade. By 1984, the likely receipts
from gas exports alone would exceed projected total debt service payments.
Algeria's external borrowing needs will be large in the next few years, but



- 7 -
can be accommodated in view of the considerably enhanced capacity to carry
debt which the country has acquired in 1974 as a result of the new relation-
ship between the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities in world markets,
the long-term prospects for gas exports, and general economic performance.
Algeria is creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
18.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY73. Since then, thirteen loans have been approved totalling $550.5 million
for roads, railways, power, education, industry, rural development and ports.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1977
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical execution
of most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans have been
slow. This is particularly the case for the first education project and the
loan to the Algerian Development Bank (BAD). Because of managerial short-
comings, implementation of the first education project and therefore disburse-
ments are two years behind schedule (see Annex II).  Disbursements have also
been slow for the project with BAD due to little progress in institutional
arrangements, the improvement of which was an important objective of the
project. The Bank and the Government are now engaged in a discussion on how
to best solve the problems of the above two projects.
19.       The provision of technical assistance and institution building sup-
port, is a major objective in the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control. Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government, and technical
assistance has been extended in previous projects to foster the financial
system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of national companies. Most
projects contemplated for coming years are expected to have one or more tech-
nical assistance components. This is also exemplified in the project proposed
in the present report. In another vein, and on the recommendation of a joint
Bank-IMF mission visiting Algeria in late 1974 to study the financial planning
system, the Economic Development Institute (EDI) held a course in 1975 dealing
with various aspects of financial planning at the central government, banking
and project levels, followed by two industrial projects courses. A rural
development course is scheduled in 1978.
20.       Another important objective of Bank strategy is to assist Algeria
in relieving developmental bottlenecks in lagging sectors, more generally
to reduce imbalances associated with Algeria's chosen path of development.
Three approved education projects address themselves to the present shortage
of technical skills needed to carry out Algeria's transformation into an
industrial society. Five approved transportation projects for highways,
railways and ports are aimed at fostering the country's economic integration,
in line with the Government's regional development objectives.



- 8 -
21.       In this fiscal year, in addition to the project presented in this
report, two projects (SN Metal Technical Assistance and a Fourth Education
Project) are expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors. In sub-
sequent years, projects are contemplated in industry, rural development,
education, highways, railways, power and urban public services including
sewerage and water supply; these projects will continue to stress objectives
going beyond the mere transfer of resources. Besides these, at the request
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, the Bank is examining
the perspectives of the agricultural sector, an effort which is also expected
to lead to projects suitable for Bank financing in the next two to three
fiscal years. An improving mutual understanding between the Bank and Algeria
should lead to a lending program increasingly attuned to Algeria's socio-
economic transformation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
22.       Algeria is the largest country of Maghreb and occupies an area of
about 2.3 million square km. There are 17 major river basins in the country.
Water resources are limited and difficult to exploit. Most of the surface
water sources have low yields, are of poor quality and thus cannot readily be
used for domestic and industrial supply. In general, the regulation of the
rivers through costly reservoirs is required, in order to obtain economically
exploitable yields. On the other hand, the rate of infiltration from storm
runoff and surface sources is considerable and as a result, groundwater is
available all over the country. However, the salinity of a large portion of
the groundwater is so high that it has to be treated before being used for
domestic consumption and irrigation. A majority of the cities are supplied
with groundwater. Overall, the average yield of the existing fresh water
sources with full development of storage is estimated at 7 billion m3/year,
which should be sufficient to cover the water needs for urban, industrial and
agricultural use until the early part of the next century. Beyond that time,
it would become necessary to resort to desalination of sea water and recla-
mation of wastewaters to meet the demand.
23.       The existing urban water supply and sewerage systems are insuffi-
cient to meet the needs of the rapidly growing urban population which now
accounts for 42 percent of the total population. In Algiers for example, the
population has more than tripled since 1962 to its present level of 1.7 mil-
lion. The expansion of the city's infrastructure, including water supply and
sewerage, has not kept pace with the demographic explosion. The situation is
similar in most of the big cities. The existing water supply and sewer
systems in these cities are obsolete and over-loaded. Though more than 80
percent of the urban population is provided with direct water service lines,
only a third of this population can be considered well served. About 70
percent of the urban population is connected to public sewer systems which in
most cases need repairs and improvement. All wastewaters are now discharged
without treatment into the Mediterranean Sea and the rivers.



- 9 -
24.       The Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environment (estab-
lished in 1977 and incorporating the former Hydraulics Secretariat created in
1970) is responsible for the development and conservation of the country's
water resources. An agency of this Ministry, the "Societe Nationale de Dis-
tribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle," SONADE, is in charge of the plan-
ning, execution and operation of water supply production facilities. Water
distribution and sewage collection services in the cities are administered by
municipal authorities (regies) which are controlled by the APWs (Assemblees
Populaires de Wilayate) and APCs (Assemblees Populaires Communales). Decen-
tralized offices of the Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environ-
ment provide technical support to the APWs and APCs. Various other Ministries
(Plan, Health, Agriculture, Industries and Interior) also intervene in the
sector. SONADE's tariffs vary among regions. The regies' tariff structure
is in most cases, a single rate irrespective of the type of use or volume
consumed and their operations are often greatly subsidized by the APCs. Water
supply and sewerage works in Algeria have been financed 100 percent by Govern-
ment grants. The second Four-Year Plan (1974-1977) included considerable
investments for water supply and sewerage works, and the investment strategy
in the new Five-Year Plan, which will be discussed late spring of 1978, is
expected to put further emphasis on the sector.
Water Supply and Sewerage in Greater Algiers
25.       Potable water for the city of Algiers is supplied by some 90 wells
located in the Mitidja and Sahel Plains. About 75 percent of the city's
population is directly connected to the distribution network; the remainder is
served by standpipes and private wells. In 1976, water production averaged
228,000 m3/day, while total recorded daily consumption reached 175,000 m3.
Thus, about 23 percent of the production in that year was unaccounted for.
The groundwater aquifer is overpumped and as a result, the water level in the
wells is declining at a rate of 0.40 meter per year. To satisfy the growing
water demand in Greater Algiers, other sources would have to be accessed at
higher costs, unless the recharge of the aquifer can be increased to allow
further groundwater extraction. The latter constitutes one of the objectives
of the proposed project.
26.       The 13 communes of Greater Algiers are served by a combined sewer
system in which both wastewaters from households and industries as well as
stormwater runoff are collected and evacuated in the same conduits. Most of
the water customers are connected to the existing sewer systems. Presently
all wastewaters are discharged without treatment into the Algiers Bay and El
Harrach River which are highly polluted. Anaerobic conditions have come to
exist in El Harrach River, and as a result, the waters are black and malodo-
rous. All fauna and flora have disappeared in the river whose flow in summer
is greately reduced. As a result, the poorer urban population which resides
in shanty towns developed along the eastern bank of El Harrach River, is
suffering from water-borne diseases stemming from its contact with the con-
taminated water. Cholera, typhoid, paratyphoid, dysentery and infectious
hepatitis, which are directly associated with flowing sewage, are endemic
in Greater Algiers. Works under the proposed project will help abate water
pollution in the river and the bay and therefore enhance sanitary conditions
in the heavily populated eastern part of the city of Algiers.



- 10 -
27.       Water supply and sewerage in Algiers was until recently the respon-
sibility of three water supply companies and one company for sewerage. The
latter "Service d'Assainissement de la Ville d'Alger" (Sewerage Service) was
one of the divisions of the administration of the city of Algiers. The three
water supply companies were: (i) SONADE Algiers which was responsible for
production of water for Algiers and distributior in the western part of the
city; (ii) "Enterprise Communale des Eaux de la Ville d'Alger" (ECOEVA) was
created in 1975 to assume responsibility for water distribution in the rest
of the city and; (iii) "Societe Algerienne des Compteurs d'Eau" (SACE), whose
function was to install and maintain water meters and collect amounts due
from customers of SONADE Algiers and ECOEVA. The relationship between SONADE,
ECOEVA and SACE had been simply that of supplier/customer. Few links existed
between these companies and the Sewerage Service. The three water supply
companies operated separate billing and the collection systems differed
considerably in detail. The Sewerage Service carried out no billing apart
from connection charges.
28.       In order to correct these institutional weaknesses the Government
has decided, in the course of project preparation and appraisal, to create
a new company to be responsible for water supply and sewerage for Greater
Algiers. The Wali of Algiers (Prefect) by decree No. 2080/CAB of October 18,
1977 created the "Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger" (SEDAL) in
which SONADE Algiers, ECOEVA, SACE and the Sewerage Service were merged.
SEDAL represents a significant innovation in sector management in Algiers,
and the Government attaches great importance to its success. If successful,
similar companies would be created in other cities. The proposed project
includes components of management assistance in the establishment of this
company and the development of policies and procedures for its efficient
operation.
29.       The water companies which existed prior to the creation of SEDAL
derived their revenues from water sales at DA 0.60/m3 for all customers, and
from other charges such as connection fees, meter rentals and maintenance
income, and service fees for the customers of SACE. Apart from connection
charges, the only income of the Sewerage Service was the yield of the "Taxe
de Deversement aux Egouts (sewer tax). This tax represents a portion of the
property tax, which is handed over to the municipal authorities. SEDAL, which
would provide water and sewerage services, needs a new mechanism to recover
the costs of these services. The formulation and implementation of SEDAL's
financial policies are among the objectives of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       In 1976, the Algerian Government asked the Bank to help finance the
project proposed in this report. The proposed project was appraised in June
1977, and negotiations took place in Washington in January 1978. The Algerian
delegation was headed by Mr. Hassam, Director General of the Ministry of
Finance. A detailed description of the project is given in the report en-
titled "Appraisal of the Algiers Sewerage Project" (No. 1810a-AL) dated



- 11 -
March 16, 1978 which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is provided in the beginning of this
report; a Supplementary Project Data Sheet, Annex III, and two maps are also
attached.
Description and Objectives of the Project
31.       The proposed project would consist of intercepting the discharge of
wastewaters into El Harrach River and treating them by the activated-sludge
process for their reuse in irrigation or the recharge of the Mitidja Plain's
groundwater aquifer. It constitutes the first phase of a Master Plan prepared
by COMEDOR (Comite Permanent d'Etudes de Developpement, d'Organisation et
d'Amenagement de l'Agglomeration d'Alger) - the urban development agency for
Algiers - with the assistance of a German engineering consortium, Kittelberger
INCO. This Plan for the collection and disposal of liquid and solid wastes in
Greater Algiers to the year 2000 was prepared and financed under an Agreement
for Technical and Scientific Cooperation signed on February 15, 1973 between
the Federal Republic of Germany and Algeria. The project is the first major
sanitation work since the country's independence in 1962. It would also be
the first Bank lending in the water supply and sewerage sector in Algeria.
32.       The proposed project includes the construction of (a) combined sewer
interceptors along the El Harrach River banks and in the older and more densely
populated western part of the city of Algiers; and (b) two sewage pumping sta-
tions and the first stage of a sewage treatment plant. The proposed project
also consists of the construction of headquarters and supply of operational
equipment for SEDAL; setting up of SEDAL's structures and technical assistance
to its management, together with a comprehensive tariff study on the basis of
which a new tariff policy and structure will be implemented; training of
SEDAL's staff; and consulting services for construction supervision of the
proposed works. Water supply and sewerage studies for the cities of Oran and
Constantine are also components of the proposed project (para 35). In parallel
with the works described above, the installation of sewers and collectors in
the city's eastern area is underway and is being fully financed by the Govern-
ment. Financing and execution of house connections to the sewers are also
included in the Government housing program. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that SEDAL would take all necessary measures to start providing
by 1980, public water supply and sewerage services to the segment of the city's
population not now connected to water and sewer networks (Draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.01).
33.       By intercepting the discharge of wastewaters, the proposed project
would first help the Government achieve its priority objective of abating
water pollution and its associated health hazards in the areas next to El
Harrach River. This in turn would permit redevelopment of the affected areas
and usage of land presently vacant because of pollution. As a result, the
proposed project would allow further expansion of the Algiers metropolitan
area and relieve population congestion in the inner city. The immediate
beneficiaries are the poorer urban population which resides in shanty towns
developed along the eastern bank of the river as well as the population of



- 12 -
the city as a whole. Second, the proposed project calls for the reuse of
the treated sewage, which would result in a substantial increase of the water
resources in Greater Algiers. This would reduce investments in water supply.
Third, by treating the wastewater generated in the Algiers conurbation,
the proposed project would help the El Harrach River and the Algiers Bay
recover their natural ecological environment and, through this prevent the
discharge of anoxic matters in the Mediterranean Sea. This is in line with
the objectives of all Mediterranean countries. Recently, in a congress
sponsored by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), these countries
agreed to take special measures to prevent further pollution of the Sea.
34.       The proposed Bank association with the establishment of SEDAL and
technical assistance to the company towards providing efficient services in
Greater Algiers is also a major objective of the proposed project. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that SEDAL (a) employ suitably qualified
consultants to carry out the management assistance program according to terms
of reference agreed with the Bank, and (b) adopt in consultation with the
Bank an adequate final organization and administrative structure (Draft Proj-
ect Agreement, Section 2.02(b)(i)). Training of SEDAL's staff is an important
element in the company's successful implementation of its objectives. Consul-
tants would provide special training courses. Assurances were also obtained
during negotiations that a detailed description and schedule of the training
program would be submitted for Bank review not later than September 30, 1978.
Instructors and consultants acceptable to the Bank would be hired subsequently
(Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(c)).
Feasibility studies for the cities of Oran and Constantine
35.       Water supply and sewerage studies for the cities of Oran and
Constantine are included in the proposed project. Though the studies are
essentially directed towards the use of water resources for domestic, commer-
cial and industrial consumption, consideration would also be given to other
uses such as irrigation, power generation and recreation. The studies would
indicate how the problems of water supply and sewerage in these metropolitan
areas can be resolved in a rational and economic manner. For Oran, a feasi-
bility study of water supply has already been prepared. The study financed
under the proposed loan would review the above mentioned feasibility study.
If found satisfactory, final engineering design would then be undertaken imme-
diately. A feasibility study of sewerage for Oran would also be carried out.
For Constantine, where the present water supply is severely rationed and ser-
vices are provided only a few hours a day in most areas of the city, ways to
increase water production and improve water distribution and sewer networks
would be analyzed. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment would employ engineering consultants, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank, to carry out these studies (Draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(b)).
Project Cost and Financing
36.       The total project cost is estimated at $154.21 million including an
investment component of $84.77 million, technical assistance components, con-
struction supervision and feasibility studies totalling $12.02 million (the



- 13 -
cost per man/month of consultant is estimated on the average at $6,300 in-
cluding all contingencies), local taxes and custom duties of $2.39 million
and physical and price contingencies of $55.03 million. The proposed Bank
loan of $82 million, or some 53 percent of the total cost, would finance the
full foreign exchange cost of the work program in Algiers and the feasibility
studies for the cities of Oran and Constantine. The Bank loan would be made
to the Government and would mature in 17 years including 4 years of grace,
with an interest rate of 7.45 percent per annum. SEDAL would reimburse
to Government the foreign exchange cost ($78 million) of the work program in
Algiers financed under the Bank loan at the same interest rate and maturity
but after 6 years of grace period. SEDAL would thus start reimbursing Gov-
ernment one year after project completion which is expected by end December
1982. Interest and other charges paid by the Government to the Bank prior to
December 31, 1983 will be added to the principal sum to be reimbursed by SEDAL
(Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)(iii)). The local cost of the proposed
project would be financed by the Government. These funds would be passed to
SEDAL as equity and would be reflected in SEDAL's statutory capital (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.05 and Draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02(a)).
Before the proposed loan is declared effective, a Reimbursement Agreement
would be concluded between the Government and SEDAL, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(d) and 6.01).
Project Implementation
37.       The Borrower through the regional office of the Ministry of Hydrau-
lics, Land Improvement and Environment in the Wilaya of Algiers (Direction
de la Wilaya d'Alger Chargee de l'Hydraulique - DWH) would be responsible
for the construction of the proposed facilities for Algiers in collaboration
with SEDAL. The latter would be directly responsible for carrying out the
remainder of the proposed project (management, economic and financial studies,
supply of its operational equipment, training of its staff and construction
of its headquarters). The Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and
Environment would be in charge of the feasibility studies for Oran and
Constantine (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). As DWH's engineering
staff has limited experience in construction of the works envisaged under
the proposed project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would strengthen DWH's staff (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
To further assist DWH in project implementation, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that qualified engineering consultants would continue to
be employed, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(a)). Promptly after completion of construction of the
proposed facilities, the Government would charge SEDAL with their management
and operation (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)(i)). During negotiations
the project implementation schedule was discussed and adopted. The construc-
tion of the proposed project elements is expected to be completed by end of
1982.
Procurement and Disbursements
38.       All contracts for the project would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement.



- 14 -
For bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of preference or the actual customs
duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment manufactured in
Algeria. Eight contracts are scheduled to be placed for the project. Foreign
manufacturers are expected to win the supply of equipment for the treatment
plant and pumping stations, and operational equipment for SEDAL. Furthermore,
as part of the contract of the sewage treatment plant, the builder would be
required to operate the plant during 3 years after its completion and to use
this period to train the Algerian staff to be thereafter responsible for the
plant's operations (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, 3(ii)). Foreign con-
tractors, possibly associated with local partners, are also expected to win
the civil works contracts. Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be
made against (i) the full CIF cost of all direct imports for the project; (ii)
foreign expenditures for consulting services; and (iii) 50 percent of total
costs for civil works construction.
Economic Justification
39.       If the additional water that would become available after the proj-
ect is completed is valued at the current price of DA 1.00/m3 as the minimum
measure of project benefits, the rate of return is estimated at 8 percent;
this is considered to be the relevant opportunity cost of capital in Algeria.
However, were it possible to quantify other important benefits that would
result from the project such as improvement of the public health, provision
for storm drainage and flood protection, increased use of the land near
the river, employment generation, improved environmental esthetics, and the
use of the river and the bay for fishing and recreational activities, the
benefit/cost ratio of the proposed project would be much greater.
Financial Analysis
40.       Because of disparities in the accounting systems between the merging
entities of SEDAL it has been possible to compute past results on a consistent
basis only for 1976. A review of the consolidated balance sheet for the com-
ponent entities of SEDAL as of December 31, 1976 discloses a satisfactory
financial condition.
41.       The water tariff of DA 0.60/m3 for all customers was considered low
and inadequate for SEDAL, which, in addition to water supply, is now respon-
sible for sewerage services. As a means to secure increased income for SEDAL,
the Government has approved an increase in the water rate to DA 1.00/m3. The
new rate (an increase of 67 percent) appears sufficient to provide SEDAL, until
the end of 1979, with the income necessary to cover operating and maintenance
costs (including depreciation). After 1979, SEDAL's level of revenue is dif-
ficult to predict for the following considerations: (a) until now, water
rates have been charged at a uniform price to all customers; the Government
recognizes that the present tariff structure is no longer appropriate to a
growing city with diverse consumer groups and in which financial incentives
to encourage economy of water use are becoming increasingly desirable; (b) at
present no systematic data exist by which the revenue effects of a differen-
tial tariff for different consumer groups or levels of consumption may be



- 15 -
assessed; (c) sewerage dues were previously collected through the property tax
and did not apply to all beneficiaries; (d) no information is presently avail-
able on the consumers' ability-to-pay; and (e) an assessment will need to be
made of the new sources of revenue which may be available to SEDAL, as a
result of the project such as the potential for sales of sludge manure and the
possibility of compensating SEDAL for flood control services.
42.       For all the above reasons, a comprehensive tariff study for SEDAL
would be carried out as part of a package of financial studies proposed under
the project. Consultants would be recruited for these studies which are
expected to be completed by the end of 1979. During negotiations, detailed
terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon (Draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)). Assurances were also obtained that SEDAL would review the
results of these studies with the Government and the Bank and implement, not
later than January 1, 1980, agreed decisions on criteria for financial and
management structures as well as on the level of charges to be levied for the
provision of its services and the self-financing capability it should achieve
(Draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.02, b(ii)). During negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that until December 31, 1979, the Government would take
all necessary measures to enable SEDAL, as a minimum standard of financial
performance, to apply and maintain the level of charges as required to produce
revenues sufficient to cover not less than its operating and maintenance costs
including depreciation and, from January 1, 1980, to cover in addition interest
and, to the extent not covered by depreciation, amortization of loan debt for
each future financial year (Drafts Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 and Project
Agreement, Section 4.03).  During project execution special indicators would
be monitored to measure the achievement of the financial goals set for SEDAL.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SEDAL would report to the
Bank, on a quarterly basis during project execution and on an annual basis
for five years after project completion, on the evolution of these indicators
(Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.07(a)).
Benefits and Risks
43.       The immediate beneficiaries would be the lowest income population
groups living in shanty towns along the banks of El Harrach River. The
population of Algiers as a whole would benefit from improved sanitary con-
ditions and land redevelopment which would result from abating the current
high level of pollution. Land redevelopment would help reducing congestion
in the inner city. Through the establishment of SEDAL, the sector would
benefit from improved management and efficiency. Finally, some 29,000 man-
years of employment would be generated by the project, 90 percent of which
would go to unskilled labor.
44.       The risks associated with the proposed project mainly relate to the
three following considerations: (a) similar work has not yet been executed in
Algeria and the operation of the sewerage facilities requires expertise which
at present is lacking in the country; SEDAL is new and represents a signif-
icant innovation in sector management; (b) many important decisions on finan-
cial policies would be taken only after completion of studies to be undertaken



- 16 -
as part of the project; and (c) as a result, implementation of these policies
might be delayed. However, these risks can be minimized through measures,
such as (i) the assistance of consultants for management and construction
supervision; (ii) the proposed training of SEDAL's staff; (iii) the operation
of the treatment plant and training of the plant's operational staff by the
builder for a 3-year period following completion of construction; (iv) the
Bank's association from the outset in the formulation and implementation of
SEDAL's financial policies; and (v) the monitoring by the Bank of key perform-
ance indicators for SEDAL.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and
SEDAL, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
46.       The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for sewerage
projects. Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are
referred to in paragraphs 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 41 and 42 of this report.
Special conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III.
47.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
48.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 22, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
ALGERIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------------
_______________                                  ALGERIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2381.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     454.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           TURKEY         YUGOSLAVIA    RUMANIA **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    470-0*       0.0 *  990.0/a*             500.0*      830.0*         . '/a
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           10.1       13.4     16.2/a               35.6        20.4        20.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0        6.0       7.0 /a             46.0        80.0        85.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        23.0       30.0     36.0 Ia              65.0       139.0       136.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         50.9       50.0      48.7                40.6        21.0        19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          22.6       18.4      15.4-               14.4         9.1         8.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        86.0 Ia      .           .              153.0/a     55.5        49.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       45.6       50.7      53.6                54.4       67.7        67.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.5       3.5                 2.6/b.c    1.3          1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.1        2.9       3.2                 2.5         1.0         1.0
URBAN                                 7.2 lb    4.4         5.6                4.9 /d      4.6         3.4
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          jo.7       35.6       39.9               38.7        38.7        40.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.0      47.2 Ia   48.0                41.7        28.3        25.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.0      48.4 7a   48.8                54.0        64.3        65.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0        4.4 7a    3.2                 4.3         7.4         8.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        1.1 /a    1.0                 0.9         0.6         0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8 /C    2.6 7a    2.4 /b               1.1/e                   0.7 /b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ,,                8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2700.0    2600.0 /ab 3590.0/a           14500.0/f        *-     9900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Y)         67.0       5o.07t b   42                 67.0          ..        49.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..      15.07a      10:01              4.0*-
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..  .      ,                32.8 /h     15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..               60.671    41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         *                 2.9g       6.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ..                9.4        18.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____________-_______________--
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..               53.0        15.1 /a
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         .,                0.9        84.9T.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7930.0 /d 7860.0   7400.0                2250.0       870.0 IC   680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..    2730.0         ..             1770.0/i    280.0 7    200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           280.0/e  340.0           . .             500.0       170.0       140.0/C
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         73.0       78.0      88.0               110.0       124.0       118.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              47.0       45.0      46.0                7820        92.0       92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.0 /e    9. 0/C       .                22.0 Li    29.0        28.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..       12.0/a       *-               14.7 /k      2.6         2.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       46.0       75.0      86.0               109.0        94.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      8.0       11.0       16.0               28.0        45.0        46.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             15.0       15.0      15.0                11.0        12.0      12-13
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     29.0/f    20.0       19.0                14.0 .      72.0       58.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..      26.0      3D.U/c              5s.0/1      85.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..       2.8 /a,d                      1.9          ..         1.3 Id
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        .-       77.0 Ia                       64.0          ..        88.0 /d,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..       34.0 /a      ..               41.0          ..        49.0 /d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..       12.0 /a                       18.0          ..        27.0 /d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         54.0       52.0       46.0               89.0       165.0       152.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          17.0       11.0       12.0                4.0        35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          123.0      138.0     211.0/a             247.0      1288.0      1615.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.6         ..        0.5                 0.7        4.3         2.6
--------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AONEX 
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTEs
Ujelse otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sand 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1970, and for Moot ge..ent fatiaate between
1973 sod 1975.
CGOP Per capita data ace based so the World 3Ban Ats. methsdslooj (1974-76 basie).
asR-eia has be.. seleoted a! an objective country for Algeria hec...e both  -ootrise have centrally plenred ecnoiaed development strategies
giving high priority to iadoatcialieaotioe, particuarlsy heevy industry, while Rtenaie has had a 1arger eapeclence of development then Algeria.
AICERIA          1960    /   1965, Aigeriam populetion only;    /b  1954-ho;    /   Ratio of Popolation ondec 15 and 65 and over to total labor forc;
/d  1963;    I 192            iExcludin  privtate vocatioa  schools
1 9-70   /   1966;    /b  Eacluding military personnel in barracks and 274,663 nationals abroad of what 229,020 are scononirslly active,
__  _also secluding 1,200,000 femiles mainly occupied it agricoltare;    Ic  1964-66;    Id  Total. urban and rura.1
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:       Is  1976;    /b  Ratio of popolation under 15 end 65 sod over to total labor forc;                 /c  1977;
TUKY    1970    /a  1967;    /b  Ean1odee 17 eaetecn, provinces ;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /e  Retio of popolstion under 15 and 65 and
over to labor force 15 yrears and over;    /f  15 yeasa  and over, exclodes unemployed;    /gRegistered only;
/b  Disposable in-m;    /I  Ioolodiatg oasis tent  uore.ansd nidwivee;              Q   1964-66    7_k  1967-60;    /I  .reran  olc
years sod over who tell the c...esa tsers that they can read And writs.._
YUOSoLAVIA       1970    /   Agriculture laad held by sociol sec tor - "lCotbimate";   lb  Agricultore land bald by private aoa11-ho1d-r  '17 h-cr..e.
n..L.on";    /c  Inciading dentists'    /d  Including  idwivse, sneitatnt midwives and aeslotant  -ose..
ROMANOIA         1970    I   Th. calculation of ths.e figures La under dianossion;    /b  aRlof of population under 15 sod 65 and cver to total Iahor
force;    /c  Full-time adoration only;    /d  1966;    Is  Inside otly.
R9, Nev-nhe 22, 1977
DgPIFIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (that h1)                                                                          Population per otreing terser - Population divided by  atb-r of prtcc  ,,0 
Total -Total suface ares c-prieing land area and Inland ..atara.                               male and Onoal gradua tenoan,"cat-ed", or "cterified" norsee. . ad
WIdo. -Most recen t eatimate of agriroltorl area used taspocarily or peena-                    atailiary personne  with traloing  -roeino 
aen tly for cropa, paaturee, sachet 6 bitohso gardens or to Ie. fellow.                    PoPe1tlatlatpr hospital bed - Population divded by musher of hospital beds'
aalbein public and private genra  an.d specialized hoeplia1 sod
GNP ear -arita (USl) - lOOP Per capita estimaers  at to.rrent market prices,                   rehabil ita tion- cetea; o           -luenring homa  sod eatablielmeota ion
raolcdby sam  con-ersion method as World Blank Atlse (1973-75 basis);                   -toatdia1 sod prevetiva care.
1960; 1970 sand 1975 dste.                                                                 Per caPita sotolo of calorins i% of retuir-menea  - Conpoted fran e-roy
aqaivaleac of net fond supplies avilable in -...try per capita per day;
Pnopul.too andxvital  tatis_tif                                                                available supplies cnapriac donatic production, imports lass emprte, and
PPselacion (mdyamilli-m)   As of Inly firer:  if nor aviltable, averge                         rhangen In atark; net sapplles  -1rlde animal feed, seds, quantitlet uad
of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                         in fond process.ing snd loosen in disothiutian; requirametc were netinated
by PAl baned on phYsioloolcol mnods for  -oa  acIvt  and bar   oe
Popuatioon density -per noose  he - Mid-yea  popalation per sqoar  kilometetr                  acnhnion,iltneaun,bd.egt,  g   n   e                               lhtnb -idn-o
(100 heras)o,       ttles.PoPulaio, and all1wing 10  Oar asset. at household level.
Paplate   ensty    ta  atar  In, of earic. land - Computed as shon  for               Prtiasupyoerota LA ( le smaee  dayS - Protein connant at per -apica
agrira1taral land only.                                                                      net sapply of food per day; ne t supply of food La defined as above; requir-
ments for all rountries entabliahed by USDA Enonatic Ree...nch Sorvicee
Vital  taitic                                                                               provida for a nini,m  alaet   f 60 grean  of tota1 lprotin Per day, and
Crude bith rac  artbou,and. aversa  - Annual live births per thousan.d of                      20 grason of anima  and pulse protein, of whirh 10 grams should be animal
mId-year population; tea-year aneetintm'  aeragm  aending in 1960 sad 1970,                  protein; thea- at-Adaode irs lonr chat those of 75 grna of total proteit
and fivo-ya:r average endingi I%1975 for mos  - tet estinata.                                 sod 23 grams of animal Protein an en avrage for the world, proposed by tooI
Crude dth rte per th  aussd. Xaerg  - AmnualI dea ths per thoausand of eid-year              Lv the Third Wor1d Pond Sorvey.
population; tea-year arithmetic averges ending in 1960 and 1970 sod five-                  Pet caPita  . ortein  soely iron snimal and sums - Proteio -opply of food
year average ending in 1973 for mesa intan...t estimate,                                     derived Iron animalsand plaa in grams per day,
Inaterai ty rats f/thou) - datmoa deatsih  of Wanfata undsr on  year of age           Det  eeIto)ss    4 -  rnsual deathe per thoucand in age group 1-4
par tbhoand live birth'.                                                                     years, Ito  bildren in this ago group; suggested as an iodicator of
Lif   atranya  birch (yes) - Average Ataber of years of life reesaing at                       nalot ri tior.
birth; as ly fieyeravrgas ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for develop-
lag rountri"s                                                                              Education
Cross reer-duoiom rae-ieeg   oae f live deaghters a  oa   ill hear                            Adjusted enrollment ratio -  rmrEcol- c               1o-leo  of all eia.a. oc
in her nomalt reprodurti- period if she eaperie-n-ces present ag-ptii                         ontoge of priotry nohtol-ags -popultion; i-clodet cbildr-n aged 6-lI yearn
fertiLity r oma; unually fuo-year   -geaga ending in 1960, 1970 ed 1975                      but adjusted for diffe-ret lengtbn of p ianary adaca.tion; f-   -utries with
ford dvlping  -ontrina.                                                                      umiversal adora.tion, enolmn   ay carte d 100/ sinc  a-o  Pssilo ate bel1n
Poplatio   rot  rate (T  -6 total- Campoord annals  gowtb raeste  of mid-year                  Or shov  the official arhoal age.
papalation for1950-60, 19070  and 1970-75.                                                 adjustderell et ratio     sodayaho  - Conp t.d aabove; seCondary
Poeuls1tion aroth rate  (7%) - urban    eutdlk  growth rats of iotal                           aotinrareatlstftfaeof apoe   rmr    otrrio
ppato; diffe rent dafimition   of urban areas may affect comparability of               provides general, vctional or teacher training  Inatro-tlos for pupile
data among omtls                                                                              of 12 to 17 years of age; avrrsepondeare  -roares an  g-aral1y eacIded.
Urban opPoIatto  ft oftotal) - Riatit of urban to teta1 population; different                 Yearsh of obslin!prvidd Ili-.c ed  Ianod lessla) - Total yearn of
definition   of arbam area  may affectt .-otnarbility of data eamng counatries.              scoln;a   eonaylvl   oatoa   ntu o   mA y be partially or
completely  -a1lded.
eas sdtrcture (percenr  - Chiliden (0-lA  years), working-age (15-64 yearn) ,                'crtional onrol1neot it of ancond-rr  - Vocationa  ft-nt-ora nae indoorl
an   eie 6  years and ove) as pe-rcntges af mid-year popualation.                    technical, industrial Or other prngran  which oPsrace independently or a
Agef degode.noyratia - Ratio af population wader iS and 65 and ovr to those                     dspartmnta of senandary imatitotiono.
ofae   5troogh 64.Adlt' litasy race 1%I)t- litecrate adulta hble yo read ad -ito) as Pe--
Ennoni deedncy ratia  - Ratio of population udar 15 and 65 and amr to                         tg  o oa  adult population agad 15 yesX  and over.
telb rcfrn  LA ag  group, of 1-64 years.
F-IsY el-anio  -tcecreinsaive  thaw) - Culstiiv   o.ber of ....eptra                          Hous g
af birth-contr1 devices under auspicona  nOastional tinilyr plannsing p-resca               Persoose pa  roem (arban) - Average mushr of persons Per coo  is oncopied
since inepio.                                                                                  onetiona  dllimga LA, urban area; dwellingn exclde ao-pesmanet
Fally eli=am - aers Ci of earned we          .) - Peetag" af maried we  of                      structures and anaccpied'parts.
child-bearing age, (15-44 years)  h.a -s  birth-cotrol de-iom  to all macrind               Occupied dalIm   wi thout ridwtne Il   - ..nrpied n sonveoona  dwellings
w Anis    aegroup.                                                                         in arben and rural area  wIthea  inside orrts ide piped water facilities
Raplavant                                                                                     Actssg   lnrnt   t Oaldeln     C_onvetional dwellings with
Total labar foris (thousand) - feanmeleAlly active persoa, including amied                      electricity In living q-sters as percent of totalI dwellings in  rbhen sod
forces and unas.ployed hue aolading boiawivs, students, eta.; definitiona                      ea  eoa
in macamenosincrima are net  nepw..able.                                                   Rua.delIg       .cneted to el1ntricity ('I  - Compated as above for rural
Labor fare  in agricu1turs i'  - Agricultera1 labor farce (in farming, ferestry,                deeIlinga only.
hunting and finhing) as Percentage af total lEabr feree.
onseplayed (1 af labor force) -samplayd are usually defined me prersona who                   Cona,meeron
are able and MIling to take sJab, out of a jab on a given day, raaeated out                 Radiel.   svr  (por thou PaP) - All ty-pe  of receivers for radio broedcasta
af.aJob, end smking work for e specfid minimea perisd mar senedig one                         to general public per thousand of population; eacludes anlicneosd receivers
week; may mat be aeparable btimea  noontrie  due to different definttiona                     in countries and in years when registration sof radio setews  in. eAffect;
of amiplsyed and eacca af data, e.g. , aeplyee  off ins snatintica, .-PI.                     data fa  r rer.nt years may anot horeaparable sine        i coutries abolished
sarey    _ ospusay saniploy_t insurance.                                                 liaesnaIn..
Passenger oars ipar thou po)-  aseg r.tr  naprise motor oareseeating
nca didstrllsatio   - Percentage af pri-teincoame  (bath in cash and kind)                       I.ee then siLght person; encludee mebolante, bsaree.aend military
reeie  brichest 3%, rinbest 20X, poorest 201%, and poorest 40% af hass-                     vehicle.
h.1da.                                                                                      Electricity ikm/yr ear casp) - Annosl canataption of Industrial, n,aearciel,
public and private electrici ty in kilowatt hours per capita, gene.rally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by usalthlnet IOX                    based on prodorton data, Withaut allowance for losass In grids hut allo--
and poorest 10X of land amen,r                                                                keg tar teporta and   srts  of a1eoririty.
Ssserint tks/vr er cap) - Per capita annua  c-onaption in kilgraea
e-lts and Nutrition                                                                             eMtimatd fran dometic production Plus net imp-te af newprint.
Peewletion pe eysi.i.n - Population divided by amber of practicing
phsoln  qaified Ore a medical sbeal at uinivrity leve.



ECONOMIC DEvELOPMNET DATA                                       ANNEX I
(amount is millions of US dollars)                                   Page 3 of 4 pages
Actual                           Est.         Projcted !           1970-   1974-   1979-   1982-
1969       1973        1975         1976          9977       1981       1986         1973    1977    1981    1986          1969    1976    1981
NATIONAL ACCOVUTS                      A-mtnr in 1975 orita and d chg            e/                                           Annual  -..eraa  -roth -ta           Ao  -eoccur of G1Y
Irons Do-stic Product               9,965    :2,611    13,601    15,016              16,556    23,143    31,674           6.1      7.1     8.8      6.5        132.8    98.3    97.0
Ginet fern Ter-s nt Tr-de(+)       -2,462    -1 577         -          259              272        728      2.353          .        .                .         -32.8      1.7      3.0
Grons . oeD stac Income             7,503    11,034    13,601    15,275              16,828    23,871    34,027          10.1    11.1      9.1      7.3        100.0   100.0   100.0
Imports (tel. nfs)                  2,971      4,896      6,828      6,245            7,512      9,353    10,780         13.3    11.3      5.7      2.9         39.6    40.9    39.2
xpoorts (Iel. import  ap-acity)   2,420        3161       4,869      5,489            5,850      8,783    11.243          6.9    16.7    10.7       5.1         32.3    35.9    36.8
Resource Gap                           551     1,735      1,959        757            1,662        570       -462          .        .        .       .           7.3      5.0      2.4
C- pi-pcl       Expendi--tures V/   5,558      6,533      7,757      8,237            9,056    12,329    18,953           4.1      8.5     8.1      8.9         74.0    54.0    51.7
Io-ntr-t (inol. etooks)            2,441      5,127      7,803      7.795            9,434    12,112    14,612          20.5    16.5      6.5      3.8         32.5    51.0    50.7
(Fined I-oest-nt)               (2,235)   (4,787)   (6,917)   (7,795)             (8,779)  (11,385)  (13,662)       (21.0)  (16.4)   (6.7)   (3.7)          (29.8)  (48.8)  (47.7)
Do-estic Saoings                    1,907      3,589      5,914      7,038            7,772    11,543    15,074          17.1    21.0    10.4       5.5         25.4    46.0    48.4
National Sovings                    1,890      3,392      5,844      6,931            7,692    11,016    14,533          15.7    22.9      9.4      5.7         25.2    45.4    46.1
MERChANDISE TRADE                        Anoual Data ot Currest Prices                                                                                              As perrert of total
Imports
Copital Goods                      307        800      2,404      2,352            3,188      5,234      7,236        27.0    41.0    13.3       6.7         30.4    43.8    46.3
Intormediato Goodo                 355        769      1,771      1,535            1,962      3,531     6,936        21.3    26.0    15.8    14.5            35.1    28.6    30.6
c-samor Goods                      216        366        379        408              762        771      1,377        14.1     6.5    12.9    12.6           21.4      7.6     6.6
Food                               132        306      1.391      1,079            1,275      2,019     3,616        23.5    43.0    12.2    12.4            13.1    20.0    17.5
Tol Imports (cif)                1,010      2,241      5,945      5,374            6,887    11,546    19,165          22.0    32.0    13.8    10.6          100.0   100.0   100.0
Exp-rts
Hydrocorboss                       666      1,594      4,172      4,944            5,755    11,040    20,632          24.5    37.9    19.7    14.9           71.3    93.8    94.5
Agrirl-tur-l Pr-ud-r                189       230        159        175              220        211        286         5.0    -1.1    -1.0       7.9         20.2      3.3      1.3
Oth-r Goods                          79        92        152        154              180        342        920         3.9    18.3    17.4    28.0            8.5      2.9     4.2
Total eIports (fob)                934      1,916      4,483      5,273            6,133    12,393    21,838          19.7    33.9    19.1    15.2          100.0   100.0   100.0
Herchandisr Trade Indices (in US$)
Imports (itol. NFS) Price lnder   21.4    43.3         100.0      108.5            119.0      165.2      268,8
Imports (ila. NFS) Price (eden   43.2    64.9          100.0      103.4            113.5      151.5     212.5
Torms of Trode lndeu                49.5    66.7       100.1      105.0            104.9      109.0      126.5
EIports Volume (eden               100.2    97.3       100.0      107.4            112.3      165.5      175.6
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                    A-mal Dota at 1975 Prices mod Emohonge Rate                                         A-nal AveraoRe Grpth Rlge             As perct of total
Agricultuoe                          1,037       884        936      1,054            1,054      1,227      1,457        -3.9      4.5     3.9      3.3         10.5      7.2      5.5
Hydrocerboes                        3,671      4,441      3,972      4,332            4,615      6,680      7,140         4.8      1.0     9.7      1.3         37.6    29.7    29.7
Nun-hydrocarbon Indusrry             1,113     1,584      1,786      2,024            2,267      3,259      5,107         9.2      9.4     9.5      9.4         11.4    13.9    14.5
C-ostr-ct-os                           565     1,252      1,746      2,009            2,318      3,206      4,622        22.0    16.7      8.3      7.6         -5.8    13.8    14.3
Oth-r Sec-ore-                       3.33      4.166      4 706      5 157            5.772    8.112    12.540            5.3      8,5     8.9      9.1         34.7    3534    36.0
Total (at factor roar)              9,764    12,327    13,146    14,576              16,026    22,404    30,866           6.0      6.8     8.8      b.5        100.0   100.0   100.0
Totol (excloding hydrocueb-s)    6,093         7,886      9,174    10,244            11,411    15,804    23,726           6.7      9.7     8.5      8.5         62.4    70.3    70.3
PUBLIC FINANCE                           As Percet t  of GDP at Currec Prio
(C-erral G-ere-ment)
Current Re-eipta                      28.8     34.3       47.0       40.7             42.3
Curr_nt Expenditrres                  18.5     20.0       23.9       21,6             19.0                               DETAIL OTN PUBLIC 0117AM              As rercent of cocal
Budgetary Savigs.                     10.3     14.3       23.1       19.1             23.3                                                    - P901-8                          ast.
Government  snvt.met                  9.1      11.6       10.5       11.6             13.3                                                                    1974-75       1978-77
Loa-s and Advamces (net)              6.0       4.7       24.3       16.6             23.4                              Agritultur-  (itcl. irrigation aed    8.6               7.1
overall Tonas.ry Balance              -4.8    -10.6      -10.2       -6.6            -12,7                                 meter aorak)
Educ.ation                              5.1            I.0
CURRE1 T EXPENDITURE                     An Percert  f Total Curret Exepndit-re                                               Hydrocarbo                            20.1            19.2
Non-hydraoarbon Industry               31.2           2S.1
Educatlo-                             24.4     28.5       19..       23.7             22.9                                 (inol. riieg,  energy)
Other Social S-rvi.rm 2/              22.1     18.0       35.8       30.8             20.6                               Ec-oia c Ifr-str-rturn                13.9           18.0
Economic Ser-ices                     11.5     11.1        6.4        8.1              7.3                               Souial Infrantruccure                  10.2           19.1
Adminitration and Defemne             31.5     24.4       19.1       25.6             20.3                               Oth-r Secturs                          10.8            2.5
U-classified                          11.5     18.0       19.3       11.8             28.0                               Total expenditure                     100.0          100.0
Total                                100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0            100.0
FINANCING
SELECTED INDICATORS                       1975-    1974-       1978-     1982-                                               Creast Budgot Surplus                  61.1            45.3
OELtCTII INOI1ATORS            19~~73    1877      1981       1986                                                Other D-etic Sasoe                     15.5            33.0
Average ICOR                           5.6      6.9         6.0       7.1                                                Foretig BI rruviig (met)              100.            21.7
A-erage ICO0  (son hydrocarbo-          ..      5.8         6.5       6.3                                                Total Pia t,                          111.0          100.0
aromomy)
Impart Elasticity                      2.31     1.59       0.65       0.45
Marginal Natiosal Savings RIta        51.8     70.8       47,2       34.6
OUTPUT, LABOR PORCE dOl
PEODUCTIVITY IN 1976                                    VPlue Added                                             Emeloyment                                     Value Added P-r Worker
(US $ lin. )              %                       Thousand                        7.                       US $                         7
Agriculctre                                    1,152                  7.5                       1,535 3/                     42.8                          750                     17.5
I.dustry                                       8,875                 57.7                         564                        15.7                       15,736                    367.3
-hydrocarbo=s                               4,680                 30.4                          38                         1.1                     123,157                  2,874.8
-Other-                                     4,195                 27.0                         526                        14.6                       7,975                    186.1
Servicec                                       5,355                 34.8                       1,276                        35.5                        4,196                     97.9
U-employ.d                                        .                    .                          215                          6.0
Total                                         15,382                100.0                       3,590                       100.0                        4,284                    100.0
Not applicable
Nort avoilbla
- Nil or negligible
e/ Scoff estimate
1/ EOcludes statictioal odjotst of $55 milliga im 1969, $1,109 millina it  1973.
2/  Iaclude co.s.u. er prEie eubsidies.
3/  Lab-r farce                                                                                                                                                                  EM4ENA CPIIB
Pebr=ary, 1978



ANNEX 1
BALANCE OF PAY)MENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                   Page 4 of 4 pages
(amounts in millions-of US dollars at current prices)
Actual                             Est.              Projected
1972        1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978        1981       1986
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)             1,440      2,016      4,935      4,869      5,569    6,635       7,491       13,307    23,899
Imports (incl. NFS)            -1,836    .,712    -4,477    -6,598    -6,432    8,520    -9,686             -i4,171   -22,915
Resource Balance                 -396       -696        458    -1,729        -863   -1,885    -2,195           -864        984
Net factor services                149        112         87         38      -107       -92       -161         -724       -997
Interest (net)                  -29        -63        -70       -163       -298      -272       -347         -929    -1,279
Workers' remittances            224        226        202        265        254       274        295          363        509
Other factor services (net)   -46          -51        -45        -64        -63       -94       -109         -158       -227
Current Transfers (net)             22         89        43          31        41        50         50            50         50
Balance on Current Account       -225       -495        588    -1,659        -929   -1,927    -2,306         -1,537          37
Private Direct Investment           18         51        360        97        179       200        200          200        200
Official Capital Grants             16       -39       -427         -          -         -            6            8          8
Public M&LT Loan Disbursements  413        1,597       -631      1,705      2,157    2,493       2,551        3,667      3,515
- Repayments                     -137       -234       -467       -433       -517      -712       -860       -1,938    -3,402
Net Disbursements                 276      1,363        164      1,272      1,640    1,781       1,691        1,729        113
Capital transactions n.e.i.         88      -367       -525          72      -262       -54        -
Change in reserves
(increase   -)                 -173       -603       -160        218       -628        -         409         -400       -358
Net reserves (end year)            482     1,096      1,315      1,066      1,608    1,608       1,200        2,100      3,826
(in months of import
equivalent)                      3.2         4.8       3.5        1.9        3.0       2.3        1.5          1.8        2.0
GRANT AND LOAN CONMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like    16             3         -         -          -         -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                              -          25        158         48        151       120
Other multilateral                  3        -          -          -          -
Governments                      155        375        168        244        214        80
Suppliers                        119        340        666      2,116        911       700
Financial institutions           303      1,494        399      1,640      1,279       800
Bonds and other ML&T              25         71         61         77
Total Public M&LT Loans             605     2,305      1,452      4,125      2,555    1,700
Actual                     Est.
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                           1973       1974       1975       1976      1977
Public Debt Outstanding Disbursed           2,931      3,305      4,474      5,853    7,634
Interest on Public Debt                      83        218        234        381       423
Repayments on Public Debt                   234        467        433        517       712
Total Public Debt Service                   317        685        667        898    1,135
Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Debt Service Ratio                         15.7       13.9       13.7       16.1      17.1
Average Terms of Public Debt
Interest as % of Prior Year DOD             5.6        7.4         7.1       8.5       7.2
Repayments as % of Prior Year DOD          15.7       15.9       13.1       11.6      12.2
IBRD Debt Out and Disbursed                    7.5        6.4       36.3      85.3    184.0
IBRD as % of Public DOD                        0.3        0.2        0.8        1.5      2.4
IBRD as % Public Debt Service                  1.1        0.5        0.9        0.7       0.8
EXTERNAL DEBT                         Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1976
Disbursed only              %
IBRD                                         85                     1.5
Other multilateral                             4
Governments                               1,074                   18.3
Suppliers                                 1,664                   28.4
Financial Institutions                    2,892                   49.5
Bonds                                       134                     2.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                       5,853                  100.0
e/  Staff Estimate                                                                                          EMENA CPIIB
February 1978
Not applicable
- Nil or negligible



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.        STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                            US $ million
Credit                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year   Borrower                   Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                   80.5
912 AL       1973   The Democratic and        Highways        18.5                5.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL       1973   The Democratic and         Education       6.0                5.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL       1974   The Democratic and        Ports           70.0               31.6
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL       1974   Railways-SNTF              Railways       49,0                8.0
997 AL       1974   Power-SONELGAZ            Power           38,5               13.2
1158 AL       1975   Banque AlgErienne          Industrial     40,0               37.2
de Developpement          Credit
1159 AL       1975   The Democratic and         Tech. Asst.     8.0                7,9
Popular Republic of       Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL       1976   Socigte Nationale des    SNMC             46.0               37.5
Materiaux de              Expansion
Construction
1209 AL       1976   The Democratic and         Education      47.0               46.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL       1976   Power-SONELGAZ            Power           57.5               51.0
1378 AL       1977   The Democratic and         Education      48.5               48.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL       1977   The Democratic and         Highways       41.5               41,5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 A1-      1977   The Democratic and         Ports          80.0               80.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                            631.0              413.0
1      of which has been repaid                 80.5
Total now outstanding                            550.5
Amount sold                      34.8
of which has been repaid 34.8
Total now held by Bank                           550.5
Total undisbursed                                413.0              413.0
1/   Effective as of January 24, 1978
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 912-AL First Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) June 30, 1978.
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. The project
originally included feasibility studies of the Oran-Arzew and Algiers South-
west expressways, additional economic studies of the Trans-Sahara road,
detailed engineering of the Algiers Southwest expressway and feasibility
studies of an additional 400 km of principal roads.  Upon Government's request
and with Bank approval, these elements have been replaced by a reconnaissance
study and inventory of about 7,000 km of principal roads, a general, technical
and economic study in the highway sector and feasibility studies and detailed
engineering for improvement of about 600 km of priority road sections. To
allow completion of these additional studies, the Closing Date had to be post-
poned to June 30, 1978.
Loan 913-AL First Education Project; US$6.0 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) December 31, 1978.
Implementation of this project is over two years behind schedule due
mainly to managerial shortcomings as well as a change of responsibility for
the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (IMMA) in 1975, from the Ministry of
Industry to the Ministry of Higher Education. Progress on the IMMA and API
(Algerian Petroleum Institute) components continues to be slower than desired.
Implementation of the workshops and 100 field units for the Institute of Agri-
cultural Technology has shown little progress because of lack of contractors'
response on local bidding for their construction. To allow resolution of
these difficulties, the Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1978.
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Work is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are somewhat
behind schedule but are expected to catch up soon. The project cost, based
on contracts already received, may be slightly below the appraisal estimates
of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is being carried out satisfactorily and procurement
is proceeding ahead of schedule. Some consultancy studies have been delayed,
and four may not be completed before the Loan Closing Date. Freight traffic



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
growth should approach 10 percent in 1977 and passenger traffic increased at
8.4 percent per year over 1974-77. In March 1976 the old entity (SNCFA) was
dissolved and a successor, SNTF, was established. A legal opinion, confirming
that all obligations of SNCFA have been transferred to SNTF, has been received.
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Physical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encountered in the provision of
financial information due to SONELGAZ's lack of experienced staff and inter-
departmental changes of personnel. There have been some delays in construc-
tion but the project's completion date is not expected to be affected.
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Progress in committing funds under this project has been slower than
anticipated. As of December 31, 1977, $18 million had been committed, compared
to the appraisal estimate of the full loan amount. This delay is for the most
part due to a disappointing lack of progress in institutional arrangements for
appraisal and decision-making, the improvement of which was an important proj-
ect objective. The Bank and the Government are now engaged in a discussion
on how to best solve these problems.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) ProJect; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31. 1979.
The credit sub-project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The con-
tract with the consulting firm (IRAM) for the extension subproject has been
signed and all nine expatriate technicians are in the field. Negotiations for
the mountain subproject have been concluded, resulting in contract signature
with Agrar und Hydrotechnik; the team leader assumed his duties in Algeria
on February 10, 1978 and the technical team will follow by April 1978. After
rejecting all consulting firm submissions for the steppe subproject, Govern-
ment solicited a single-source bid from a consortium headed by the South
Australian Government. A proposal has been submitted and is presently being
reviewed by the Algerian Government. It is expected that contractual arrange-
ments will be completed by April 1978. The contract for the expatriate
advisor to the project was signed in August 1977 and the advisor has been in
Algiers since October 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but now proceeding satisfactorily. Training of Algerian personnel
is also somewhat delayed due to lack of qualified candidates but arrangements
for necessary technical assistance are underway. Appropriate measures are
being taken by SNMC and the Government to ensure respect of the agreed finan-
cial performance targets. The contract for the technical assistance program
for the "Societe Nationale de Comptabilite" (SNC) has been signed after some
delay due to managerial problems in SNC. SNC is now recruiting the necessary
Algerian personnel, and the program should be operational soon.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of March 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily. Ini-
tial delays in preparing construction documents for Phase I due to administra-
tive problems are now being made up; similar delays in preparing ICB bid docu-
ments for equipment procurement are expected to be offset at later stages.
Implementation of the technical assistance program for the Institute of Elec-
tricity and Electronics is progressing satisfactorily; the remaining technical
assistance program is well underway, though somewhat behind schedule.
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project; US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall progress is satisfactory. Procurement for
substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the Bank, but
some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet submitted to
the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants agreed upon
will be achieved. This plan and appropriate decisions are now expected by
spring.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project got off to a good start and preparation of equipment
procurement for the fifteen Bank-financed technicums is close to schedule.
More recent programming, however, includes a one-year delay on opening of
these institutions because of the very heavy building programs being under-
taken throughout the country and lack of capacity of the construction indus-
try. Due to administrative shortcomings, delays have also been experienced
in preparation of a pedagogical training program for the Technical Teacher



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Training College, adapted to the needs of technicums. Implementation of civil
works and equipment procurement for the two vocational training centers is
about one year behind schedule. Implementation of the technical assistance
program is underway.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project; US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria
section of the Algiers-Constantine road, consultant services for construction
supervision and technical assistance. Prequalification of bidders for con-
struction has been completed; invitation to bid was expected in December 1977
with contract award end September 1978. The Government has been asked to send
the Bank a schedule for consulting studies and training activities.



ANNEX III
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FIRST SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project:  about
three years starting February 1973.
(b)  Agencies which have prepared the project:  COMEDOR (Comite
Permanent d'Etudes, de Developpement, d'Organisation et
d'Amenagement de l'Agglomeration d'Alger) with the assis-
tance of German consultants (Kittelberger INCO) under an
Agreement for Technical and Scientific Cooperation between
the Federal Republic of Germany and Algeria.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of first
Bank mission to consider the project: The project was
first presented to the Bank in February 1976 and the
identification mission took place in July of the same
year.
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 1977.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: January 20, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 31, 1978.
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Because the proposed project would be the first Bank lending in the
water supply and sewerage sector in Algeria, and SEDAL (Societe des Eaux de
l'Agglomeration d'Alger) is newly formed, the Bank obtained assurances that
SEDAL would:
(a)  employ consultants to carry out the management assistance,
financial and tariff studies necessary to pave the way
towards its financial viability (paragraph 42);
(b)  employ training advisors to prepare a training program
for its staff and subsequently employ instructors and
consultants for the implementation of this program
(paragraph 34);
(c) regularly report to the Bank on the evolution of the
indicators set out for monitoring progress in project
execution (paragraph 42).



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) As from January 1, 1978 and until December 31, 1979,
SEDAL would apply and maintain its level of charges
for services provided by it as required to produce
revenues sufficient to cover its operating and
maintenance costs (paragraph 42);
(b) As from January 1, 1980 SEDAL would, further to (a)
above, apply and maintain its level of charges for
services provided by it as required to produce revenues
sufficient to cover interest and other charges on loans
and repayment of loans in excess of provision for
depreciation (paragraph 42);
(c) Following completion of the financial and tariff studies
(end of 1979) referred to in Section II (a) above, SEDAL
would promptly review with the Government and the Bank
the findings included in these studies and implement
the decisions arrived at with all parties concerned,
regarding appropriate criteria for financial and manage-
ment structures, the level of charges to be levied for
the provision of its services and the self-financing
capability it should achieve as from January 1, 1980
(paragraph 42);
(d) As from 1980, SEDAL would take all necessary action to
provide public water supply and sewerage services to
the part of the Algiers population which at the time
is not connected to the networks (paragraph 32);
(e) DWH - the Direction de la Wilaya Chargee de l'Hydraulique
(the agency responsible for the construction of the
proposed facilities for Algiers) would employ engineering
consultants to assist it in construction supervision
(paragraph 37);
(f) The Government would strengthen DWH's engineering staff
which has limited experience in construction of the
works envisaged under the proposed project (paragraph 37);
(g) The sewage treatment plant's builder would be requested
to operate the plant during a minimum of three years
and use this period to train the Algerian staff (para-
graph 38).






(BRD 13057
ALGERIA                                                                                                  AUGD5T197
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
Meedt err  c n7 e at nUrbon Exponsion in Greater Algiers
0    1              4         a   7    8N9    0                                                                                                           f , /
: \          X Es,      AiN BENIAN         ,            .    _    !-                             
OI O       C H E       G A                   E LBt                                   ALGIERS                                                                                 R O  U   B A  - R E G H AiA
S I 2  4   '"a
aLES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=  K 'r  /   jf;E 35   i;Wt  /                  D ;g=,lExishng ub-  ree, 1977
/   .  /   r      ilfr".                       /                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deve oping urban .,ea
    !   7    3    4   6   7    5   7    la  /'/    '  2)       =                r  ,   t                           /                              lndustriel areus, 1977             Ihy,MZ^, ,, D=lhd,tml wen, 197
KILOMETERS'.  
t 2 ~3                  r                                                          5, 6                                                                                  /                                        Rwe r ,p Mh. ,. rod
MlLE S/ bg$                                                                                                                                                                                                     t






IBRD 13058
ALGER IAAUUT97
44e &i/e                                                           5                                      ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
,6  o;;  ;                               ;s n;o; iet '  General Layout                                 n  t ds
Bub El 9i,d~ . ;l Kern                                                                 a ,                     T .   .T;YD
An    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ouoe B.b Eli(~'
:{:~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   Bo:  Hase 0                      \X I;                                                                                                        I  :2:           i  4  :       ~N  i o            --+|.  -~~_  
:-iA E SL; E @N V0 ,X< I\<WS t)Sz >z\?A~~EB,,&?LGIERS   /EEAASGEOU
| ' '-'   (              \                '\ <o Je'   "   ~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~~ f                  "          A         ' ~  ~YS [                          /                       EX iSTING  IMMlEDIATE   FUT URqE
     \   \                     (      <4;/   Al '    f  ,\                          s  2         /> :I                                                           Main collectors
( rs X \ BlrToutag/ a , ,5; 1 4 h o .s?~ Sewage treatment plants
iolerJ   rA   L                              /      /            ''    W      X          T 's;<                                                                                          W        :-~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pumping stations
01>_,                                                          + *\/                               2          )1                                                                                    ^                         Inc neraTor plant
Of                                   /           ss         }   J           (          g                                                                                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Compact plants
<  / / < . J                - y Drainage area baundaries
}  )      /                                    .                                      \                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---   Rivers
o   1 523   4    s   67t  8                  o           /,                              hly>en    ab                                                                                                             Limitsofatlgiers' urban agglomeration, 2G00
IIlvOMETE R5                                  /                                                                                                                                                   2  et9Pefh~8o     Urban areas
a, ! ? MILES  /                 /                 W                 OP.nJ.h'[D'L   O0'ONr ...,                                                                                         -I ---- R         -Iway
/    roB ido                         orz,o accN/n0tofr N ounios                                          V jTO Ei'Arbo



