Report No. 1810a-AL
Algeria
Appraisal of the
Algiers Sewerage Project
March 16, 1978
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
a
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1, 1977)
Currency Unit  = Algerian Dinar (DA) = 100 Centimes
DA 1           = US$0.25
US$1           = DA 4.05
DA 1 million   = US$246,914
ABBREVIATIONS
g            gallon                            m           =  meter
gcd       =  grams/capita/day                  m3          =  cubic meter
ha        =  hectare                           mm          =  millimeter
hp        =  horsepower                        Mm3 or hm3 =  million of cubic meters
lpcd         liters per capita per day         min         =  minute
Km2       =  square kilometer                  ppm         =  part per million
Kw           Kilowatt                          sec            second
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                               US System
Meter (m)                               =   3.28 ft
Hectare (ha)                            =   2.47 acres
Cubic meter (m3)                            264 US gallons
Cubic meters per second (m3/sec)        =   22.8 x 106 gallons/day (mgd)
Milligram per liter (mgIl)              =   8.34 pounds per mg (lb/mg)
Liters per second (1/sec)               =   22,800 US gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APC       =  Assemblée Populaire Communale
APW       =  Assemblée Populaire de Wilaya
BNEH      =  Bureau National d'Etudes Hydrotechniques
BOD       =  Biochemical Oxygen Demand
COD       =  Chemical Oxygen Demand
COMEDOR   =  Comité Permanent d'Etudes, de Developpement, d'Organisation
et d'Aménagement de l'Agglomération d'Alger
DWH       =  Direction de la Wilaya d'Alger Chargée de l'Hydraulique
ECOEVA    =  Entreprise Communale des Eaux de la Ville d'Alger
MHLIE     =  Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environment
SACE      =  Société Algérienne des Compteurs d'Eau
SEDAL     =  Société des Eaux de l'Agglomération d'Alger
SONADE    =  Société Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle
SONADE-WA =  Société Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle,
Direction Régionale Wilaya d'Alger
SONAGTHER =  Société Nationale des Grands Travaux et Equipement Rural
SNC       =  Société Nationale de Comptabilité
SN'MC     =  Société Nationale des Matériaux de Construction
SNREAH    =  Société Nationale d'Eau et Aménagement Hydraulique
SEDAL's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



ALGERIA                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................                                           -ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  . ......................................                                             1
II.      THE WATER  SUPPLY  AND  SEWERAGE  SECTOR  ...............                                          1
Water  Resources  ......... . . . . .   ................................... .                -    1
Population  and  Service  Levels  ......................                                          2
Sector  Organization   .....o ...                ..... se .....        ... o*...                  3
Constraints  to  Sector  Development  ........ ....                  ........                     3
III.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  ..............se**..              ... .oe................                      4
General  Features  ...................................                                            4
Existing  Water  Supply  .....                      .......... ....... *..                        5
Existing  Sewerage  ... . ............................                        .                   5
Sanitary  Conditions  .... .... .. . . . .   ..................... ........ .                     6
IV.    THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  . ............................. .                                            7
Objectives  of  the  Project  ..........................                                           7
Scope  of  the  Sewerage  Program  .....................                                          7
Studies  in Other  Cities  ............................                                           8
Project  Components  . ............................... .                                          8
Cost  Estimates  .....................................                                            9
Project  Financing  . ........................   ..........                                      il
Procurement  ........................................
Dîsbursements  ................... ................................                              12
Project  Implementation  .... .........................                                          12
V.     THE  BENEFICIARY  ....................................                                            13
Background  ........ ............. . ................ . s .                                      13
Organization  and  Management  ........................                                          13
Management  Assistance  ........ . . .   .............................  .                        14
Staffing  ........              ...................................                              14
Training  Program  . .......... ..... .. .. . .   ................... .                          15
Billing  and  Collection    ..... o.......................                                       16
Accounting  System  ................................................ o.                          16
Audit  ................................ .......................                                  17
Insurance  ......................................................                                17
This report was prepared and written by Mr. Fritz Rodriguez and
Mr. Keith Thomas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed,without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued')                                                 Page No.
VI.   FINANCE          .............................................          17
Past and Present Financial Position ..............      ..             17
Revenues               .................                               19
Reimbursement of Government ......... ...............                  19
Future Financial Performance .....        ..................           20
Monitoring System ........        ............................         21
VII. JUSTIFICATION ........ .                                                  22
Objectives of the Proposed Investments ............       .            22
Least-Cost Solution ...... .                                           22
Institution Building .....        ..........................           23
Economic Justification ............................                    23
Risks         ..............................................           23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........       ..             24
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1.  The Water Supply and Sewerage Sector ....................                    25
2.  Water Consumption and Service Lines in Algiers, Past
and Forecast ............................................                   32
3.  Proposed Terms of Reference for Feasibility Studies
of Water Supply and Sewerage for the Cities of Oran
and Constantine ...........   .      ..............................         33
4.  Description of the Proposed Works .......................                    37
5.  Forecast of Pollution Load in El Harrach River Basin   ....                  45
6.  Detailed Cost Estimates .................................                    46
7.  Annual Project Investments ..............................                    47
8.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .....................                    48
9.  PERT Network for Project Implementation ....           .............        49
10.  Summary of SEDAL's Statute . ............ .o. .  ............... .           50
Il.  SEDAL's Interim Organizational Structure - 1977 .........                   51
12.  Terms of Reference for Organization, Management,
Tariff and Financial Studies .....          .......................         52
13.  SEDAL - Income Statements - 1976-1979 .................       ..            58
14.  SEDAL - Cash Flow Statements - 1977-1979 .          ...............         59
15.  SEDAL - Balance Sheets - 1976-1979 ......................                   60
16.  Principles of Financing for Algerian Socialist Enter-
prises   ....  61
17.  Financial Performance of SEDAL after 1979 ......... ......                  63
18.  Monitoring Indicators ..........................                            68
19.  Economic Analysis ..    .................................. .                69
Map s
13056     Project Location
13057     Urban Expansion in Greater Algiers
13058     General Layout of the Project



ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Algiers, the nation's administrative center and biggest city, has up
to now disposed of its wastewaters by discharging them untreated into the El
Harrach River and the bay. However, now that the city has reached a popula-
tion of 1.7 million and continues to grow at over 5% a year, these discharges
have become increasingly harmful to the public health and the natural eco-
logical environment. The river and the bay are highly polluted and their use
for fishing and recreational activities has ceased long ago. The densely
populated low-income residential areas along the river are malodorous and face
serious health hazards. Meanwhile, development of badly needed vacant land
around the river mouth, which could help relieve population congestion in the
inner city, is not under the present conditions considered feasible.
ii.       At the same time, the supply of potable water to the city's growing
population has also become more difficult and expensive. The exploitation of
groundwater resources which are presently used for domestic consumption and
irrigation has reached their potential capacity and major increases in supply
would call for the transfer of resources located outside the Algiers basin and
for costly river regulation schemes. Thus, the conservation of water within
the area is also now an issue of high priority.
iii.      To help alleviate both these problems, a project involving the col-
lection and treatment of wastewaters in Greater Algiers, with a view to their
eventual reuse for irrigation in the Mitidja Plain surrounding the city or to
recharge the groundwater aquifer, is proposed. The project covers the first
stage of a Sewerage Master Program prepared by COMEDOR, the planning agency
for Algiers, with the assistance of German engineering consultants. The
proposed investments would include the construction of sewer interceptors
along El Harrach River and the bay, the expansion of the sewer system, the
first stage of a sewage treatment plant and two pumping stations.
iv.       There are many technical deficiencies in the water supply and sewer
systems of the Algerian cities, which have not expanded or improved substan-
tially since the country's independence in 1962, in spite of the rapid growth
of the urban population. The administration and operation of these systems
is also deficient. Government is aware of this situation and is making a con-
siderable effort to improve the social infrastructure of the cities and the
management efficiency of their public authorities. In this regard, it has
indicated its desire to receive the Bank's technical and financial support.
v.        The proposed project will be the Bank's first involvement in the
water supply and sewerage sector, and because of the present institutional
weaknesses of the sector, will cover important software elements. A new
company, "Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger (SEDAL), is to be set



up to manage water supply and sewerage in the city of Algiers, which tradi-
tionally have been the concern of departments of the municipal administration
as in other Algerian cities. SEDAL represents a significant innovation in the
sector management, and Government attaches great importance to its success.
Therefore, the project includes components of management assistance in the
establishment of this company and the development of policies and procedures
for its efficient operation. A training program for staff at all levels is to
be provided.
vi.       The project also iincludes engineering studies of improvements needed
in water supply and sewerage in the cities of Oran and Constantine, which face
problems similar to those of Algiers. From these studies, it is hoped to
derive a pipeline of future projects through which the Bank's involvement in
the sector may be continued.
vii.      The total cost of the Bank-assisted project is assessed at DA 624.5
million (US$154.2 million) with a foreign exchange content of DA 332.1 million
(US$82.0 million); it is proposed that the Bank loan cover 100% of the foreign
exchange cost. The loan would be made to Government, which through its bureau
of hydraulics in the Wilaya of Algiers (DWH) would be responsible for execu-
tion of the works in Greater Algiers. Upon completion of these works, Govern-
ment will hand over the facilities to SEDAL for operation. SEDAL will incor-
porate these facilities in its assets and will reimburse Government for the
equivalent of the loan funds disbursed for the project components in Algiers.
SEDAL would be responsible for execution of the management study and training
program; the engineering studies of water supply and sewerage for the other
cities would be carried out under the control of the Ministry of Hydraulics,
Land Improvement and Environment.
viii.     Goods and works to be financed under the Bank loan would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a pre-
ference of 15% or the actual customs duty, whichever is the lower. The loan
would be disbursed against (a) the full CIF cost of all direct imports for
the project; (b) foreign expenditures for consulting services; and (c) 50%
of the total expenditures for civil works. Project construction is expected
to start in 1978 and be completed by the end of 1982.
ix.       In the past, a part of the property tax levied on privately owned
land has been channelled to municipal authorities which provide sewerage ser-
vices. In Algiers the yield of this tax has covered only a small portion of
the costs of this service, and new means of charging the sewerage customers
will have to be found.  Further, the revenue from water sales has also been
barely sufficient to meet current expenses. To enable SEDAL to cover the
operating, maintenance and depreciation expenses of water supply and sewerage
in the immediate future, the water price has been raised by 67%. During
1978-1979 a comprehensive tariff study will be carried out as part of the
management assistance, on the basis of which a new tariff structure and
levels will be implemented by 1980 and in which targets of financial perform-
ance for SEDAL will be balanced against an acceptable rate of increase in
its charges to customers.



- iii -
x.        The proposed project is technically sound and represents the least-
cost alternative both for abating water pollution in the river and the bay,
and for increasing the water resources in Greater Algiers. If the additional
quantities of potable water forthcoming as a result of the project were valued
at the current water price of DA 1.00/m3 to represent a minimum measure of
benefit, the benefit/cost ratio of the project would be equal to or greater
than unity at discount rates up to 8%. This ratio, however, would be substan-
tially higher if it were possible to quantify other extra market benefits that
would stem from the project, such as the improvement of environment quality
and public health, the provision of storm drainage and flood protection, the
use of the river and the bay for fishing and recreational activities. The
immediate beneficiaries of the project will be the city's lowest income
population which lives along the river and which, as a result of the project,
will have access to better water supply and sewerage; eventually, the whole
population of Greater Algiers will share the health and environmental benefits.
xi.       Agreement having been reached at negotiations on the issues outlined
in Chapters IV through VII of this report, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$82 million to Government for a term of 17 years including 4 years
of grace.
January 27, 1978






ALGERIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Algeria has requested the Bank to help finance a
sewerage project for Greater Algiers and engineering studies of water supply
and sewerage for the cities of Oran and Constantine. The proposed project
involves: (i) the first construction stage of a Sewerage Program for the
collection and treatment of wastewaters generated in Algiers, and (ii) the
establisment of a new authority, "Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger"
(SEDAL), which will execute part of the Program and operate Greater Algiers'
water supply and sewerage facilities. The works and studies, which with
related project implementation, training of the authority's staff and manage-
ment consultants' services are estimated to cost US$154.2 million, are pro-
grammed to be executed in the years 1978 through 1982. A Bank loan of US$82
million to cover the foreign exchange cost of the project is proposed.
1.02      This would be the first Bank lending in the water supply and sewer-
age sector and the project itself would be the first major sanitation work
undertaken by Government since the country's independence in 1962. There are
presently many deficiencies in the sector and actions to improve the actual
conditions would entail the planning, design and implementation of many diver-
sified programs that Government might not be able to carry out successfully
without outside technical assistance. Government has clearly expressed its
desire to receive such assistance from the Bank, whose involvement in the
sector would be fully justified, as adequate water supply and sewerage have
become prerequisite to urban renewal and continued industrial growth of
Algeria.
1.03      The project was prepared by a governmental agency, "Comite Permanent
d'Etudes, de Developpement, d'Organisation et d'Amenagement de l'Agglomeration
d'Alger" (COMEDOR), with the assistance of a German engineering consortium,
Kittelberger-INCO, and was first discussed during a reconnaissance mission to
Algiers in February 1976. Subsequently some technical changes were suggested
and agreement was reached on the scope of the project and a first stage pro-
gram of works. A mission composed of Messrs. Fritz Rodriguez and Keith Thomas
appraised the project in June 1977.
Il. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Water Resources
2.01      Water resources in Algeria are to some extent limited and difficult
to exploit. Most of the surface water sources have low yields, are of poor
quality and thus cannot readily be used for domestic and industrial supply.



In general, regulation of the rivers through costly reservoirs is required in
order to obtain economically exploitable yields. On the other hand, the rate
of infiltration from storm runoff and surface sources is high and as a result,
groundwater is available al-1 over the country and represents more than two-
thirds of the available water resources. However, the salinity of a large
portion of the groundwater is so high that it cannot be used as such for
domestic consumption and irrigation. A majority of the cities are supplied
with groundwater.
2.02      Overall, the average yield of the existing fresh water sources with
full development of storage is estimated at 7,000 hm3/year, which should be
sufficient to cover the water needs for urban, industrial and agricultural use
until the early part of the next century. Beyond that time, it would become
necessary to resort to desalination of sea water and reclamation of waste-
waters to meet the demand. This situation already exists in some densely pop-
ulated river basins where the present demand actually exceeds the available
resources in these basins, and for which waters need to be transferred from
adjacent basins. This is the case in Oran (actually the country's most indus-
trialized region) where the water needs exceed the resources by more than 100
hm3/year. This scarcity of water within those basins and the need for high
capital investments in water production and transmission facilities constitute
serious constraints to rapid industrial expansion in these regions.
2.03      In the Algiers area, groundwater is now used for both urban supply
and irrigation. The present water demand in this area exceeds the potential
capacity of the groundwater aquifer and is actually met by overpumping the
aquifer. Consequently the groundwater level is lowering rapidly with the
possible danger of sea water intrusion into the aquifer and the subsequent
degradation of the water quality. To satisfy the growing demand, other
sources would have to be accessed at higher costs, unless the recharge of
the aquifer can be increased to allow further groundwater extraction.
Population and Service Levels
2.04      Preliminary results of the latest census (February 1977) put the
country's total population at 16.5 million growing at an annual rate of 2.8%.
More than 50% of this population live in urban areas settled along the Mediter-
ranean Sea. About 40% of the urban population is concentrated in the three
largest metropolitan areas, Algiers, Oran and Constantine (the regions involved
in the project), whose annual population growth rate is estimated to be more
than 5%. In Algiers the population has more than tripled since 1962 to its
present level of 1.7 million. The latest census also showed a steady decline
of the rural population, which has migrated to urban areas since the previous
census in 1966.
2.05      The expansion and improvement of infrastructure such as housing,
water supply, sewerage and public transportation, has not kept pace with the
demographic explosion in the urban areas. The existing water supply and sewer
systems in most of the cities are obsolete and over-loaded. Though more than
80% of the urban population is provided with direct water service lines, only



a third of this population can be considered well served; water supply in
the cities is very often intermittent. About 70% of the urban population
is connected to public sewer systems which in most cases need urgent repairs
and improvement. Less than 40% of the rural population is connected to
public water supply networks; only 25% to sewerage. All wastewaters are
now discharged without treatment into the Mediterranean Sea and the river
system.
Sector Organization
2.06      The Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environment-MHLIE
(established in 1977 and incorporating the former Secretariat of Hydraulies
created in 1970) is responsible for the development and conservation of the
country's water resources. An agency of this Ministry, the "Societe Nationale
de Distribution d'Eau Potable et Industrielle" (SONADE) is in charge of the
planning, construction and operation of water supply production facilities.
Water distribution and sewage collection in the cities are managed by muni-
cipal entities which are controlled by the local administrations. Except in
Algiers, where two municipal water companies have been in charge of both water
production and distribution, these entities purchase bulk water for retail
distribution from SONADE.  More details of the sector organization and service
levels are given in Annex 1.
2.07      In general all over the country, low tariffs have remained unchanged
in the last decade and in spite of the urban pressure already mentioned, the
municipalities have always been reluctant to implement effective tariffs which
would have encouraged the consumers to economize on their water supply. This
situation has lasted until now because past investments in water supply and
sewerage had always been financed with Government grants to the municipalities,
and the municipal companies in most cases have delayed payment for their water
purchases from SONADE. As water demand has been increasing rapidly, SONADE
in turn has been forced to make more investments in production facilities,
in spite of the municipalities' large overdue payments to it.
Constraints to Sector Development
2.08      The lack of qualified engineers and administrative staff is certainly
one of the major constraints to an accelerated development of the sector. It
is reported that there are only two Algerian sanitary engineers in the coun-
try. A technical school, "Institut d'Hydrotechnique et de Bonification (IHB)"
was recently set up under MHLIE; the first class will graduate in 1978. The
shortage of qualified engineers and managers becomes more pronounced in the
Algerian fragmented type of sector organization: water supply and sewerage
are managed by separate municipal entities; each commune independently admin-
isters its water supply and sewerage services. Regional authorities, such as
the one proposed for Algiers (paragraph 5.01), which would be responsible for
both water supply and sewerage in adjacent counties or provinces, would appear
more appropriate for Algeria.



- 4 -
2.09      The present institutional arrangement is also a constraint to the
harmonious development of the sector. MHLIE is in theory solely responsible
for the sector management. However, various other ministries have in the past
intervened in the sector on an ad hoc basis. In addition, MHLIE does not
control the operation of the municipal companies, which are under the juris-
diction of the Walis and hence ultimately of the Ministry of Interior. The
operation and maintenance of the systems are also impaired by the unavail-
ability of replacement parts due to lengthy complicated administrative proce-
dures and the monopoly given to governmental entities to supply specific lines
of products. A lack of qualified local contractors and building materials and
equipment may further restrain the sector development, though this constraint
is being relieved with less restrictions on participation of foreign bidders
in procurement of civil works and equipment.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
3.01      Located on the southern coast of the Mediterranean Sea, Algiers
City occupies an area of 186 km2 divided into 5 dairates (boroughs) and 13
communes (wards) (see Map 13056). It is the capital city and the center of
political, economic and cultural life of Algeria. Greater Algiers (including
a further 10 communes) extends along the Mediterranean coast from the Sahel
Hills to the Mitidja Plain, and covers three main river basins known as El
Harrach, Beni Messous and Reghaia. More than two thirds of the urban agglo-
meration is presently located in El Harrach River basin which encompasses
about 40% of Greater Algiers' area. About 45% of wastewaters generated in
this area are discharged without treatement into El Harrach River. The other
two basins are much smaller with lower population densities.
3.02      The 1966 census calculated the city's population to be 900,000.
Preliminary results of the 1977 census indicate a population of 1.7 million,
thus growing at an annual rate of 5.8%. This high population growth has
mostly resulted from a continuing influx of people from other cities and rural
areas. More than 10% of the country's population live in Algiers, whose pre-
sent water and sewerage facilities were originally built to serve only 500,000
inhabitants. A lack of housing, adequate public transportation, water and
sewerage facilities, associated with rapid industrial expansion and air pollu-
tion problems, have worsened living conditions in Algiers, already impaired
by population congestion.
3.03      A relatively mild climate prevails in Greater Algiers, though high
temperatures are occasionally recorded in summer. The mean annual rainfall
varies from 580 mm to 760 mm, but is unevenly distributed through the year.
Most of the rainfall occurs during the months of October through March, while
it is practically dry from June through August. Rainstorms of high intensity
(more than 100 mm per hour) and duration (more than one hour) often occur
during the rainy season.



Existing Water Supply
3.04      Potable water for the city of Algiers is supplied by some 90 wells
located in the Mitidja and Sahel Plains. About 75% of the city's population
is directly connected to the distribution network; the remainder is served by
standpipes and private wells. In 1976 water production averaged 228,000
m3/day, while total daily consumption reached 175,000 m3, resulting in a per
capita daily consumption of 140 liters. About 23% of the production in that
year was unaccounted for. All the service lines are metered. Available stor-
age amounts to 130,000 m3 or 74% of the average daily volume consumed, which
is considered largely adequate. The groundwater aquifer is overpumped and as
a result the water level in the wells is lowering at a rate of 0.40 m/year.
Water rationing is current in summertime when hourly consumption reaches its
peak level.
3.05      Water supply for Algiers City has been managed by two municipal com-
panies: SONADE-WA (the former SONADE organization in Algiers) and "Entreprise
Communale des Eaux de la Ville d'Alger" (ECOEVA). The present operation of
the city's water supply system is deficient. Standby capacity in the pumping
stations is inadequate and breakdowns of the transmission pipelines frequently
occur, leaving the city without water for up to three days. Under a technical
assistance program of the Federal Republic of Germany, engineering consultants
have been appointed to improve the system operations and to recommend a long-
term program of water supply for Greater Algiers. Meanwhile, SEDAL is now
constructing additional water wells and transmission facilities that could
temporarily ease the water rationing in the city during peak demand in summer.
Existing Sewerage
3.06      The 13 communes of Algiers City are served by a combined sewer
system in which both wastewaters from households and industries, and storm-
water runoff are collected and evacuated in the same conduits. Other dis-
tricts of Greater Algiers, specially the industrial area, are equipped with
separate sewer systems where wastewaters and runoff are collected and drained
in different conduits. Most of the water customers are connected to the sewer-
age and about 80% of water supplied to domestic consumers returns to the
sewers. The existing sewer systems are in good condition. There are 8 main
sewage collectors of which all but three are canalized through their entire
length in close channels. The majority of industries in El Harrach River
basin use dry type processes requiring little water. However, some industries
of cellulose, barm and soap use large individual volumes of water and dis-
charge strong wastewaters.
3.07      The organic pollution (BOD ) of the domestic wastewaters is rela-
tively low; in 1973 it was calculated to average between 35 gcd and 40 gcd.
The BOD5 of the industrial wastewaters in that year averaged 5.5 tons/day,
equivalent to the pollution load of a population of about 150,000. In 1973
the total solids content of the wastewaters was measured to be around 145 gcd.



-6-
3.08      Algiers' sewerage has been operated by a division of the "Service de
la Voirie et de l'Assainissement de la Ville d'Alger", a municipal authority.
The current operation and maintenance of the sewer system is satisfactory.
.n general, blocking of the sewers is quickly removed and normal flowing is
assured in all areas of the city. Clearing of the main collectors is carried
out annually during the dry season.
3.09      Presently wastewater generated in Algiers City is discharged without
treatment into the Algiers Bay and El Harrach River whose allowable pollutional
loading is very limited. It is estimated that the amount of waste matters
actually poured into the river is 20 times greater than its permissible load-
ing. As a result of this overloading, waters along the coast and in El Harrach
River are highly polluted and malodorous. The emission of hydrogen sulphide
characteristic of anaerobic decomposition in the river can be detected a half
mile away. Black sludge deposits and bubbles of decomposition gases can be
observed along El Harrach River banks, which are densely populated with low-
income people who now face increasingly unpleasant living conditions as well
as the serious health risks described below. In addition, potentially valuable
vacant land at the river mouth is presently unusable because of the pollution
problems. Recreational and fishing activities have many years ago ceased
along the coast and in the river.
Sanitary Conditions
3.10      Data from the "Institut National de la Sante Publique" suggest that
infectious waterborne diseases such as cholera, typhoid, paratyphoid, dysentery
and infectious hepatitis, which are directly associated with flowing sewage,
are endemic in Greater Algiers. The number of registered typhoid cases climbed
from 108 in 1970 to more than 500 in 1974; dysentery cases increased from 12
in 1970 to more than 40 in 1974. Nine cases of infectious hepatitis and 115
of cholera were registered in 1974. The present morbidity rates of typhoid
and paratyphoid (21.4/100,000) and poliomyelitis (15.9/100,000) are considered
extremely high.
3.11      There is evidence that the city's water supply sources are being
contaminated by sewage. An analysis of water in 39 wells supplying the city
showed faecal contamination in 26 of them (66.7% of the samples). Some pol-
lution by the Salmonella genus (paratyphoid) was also observed in Algiers Bay.
Such contamination clearly stems from the sanitary defect of sewage disposal
in Greater Algiers and if not stopped could result in serious outbreaks of
infectious diseases in the city.
3.12      In the beginning of 1976, COMEDOR with the assistance of German
engineering consultants completed a Master Plan for the collection and dis-
posal of liquid and solid wastes in Greater Algiers to the year 2000. This
plan was prepared and financed under an Accord for Technical and Scientific
Cooperation signed on February 15, 1973 between the Federal Republic of Germany
and Algeria. The COMEDOR sanitation scheme was approved by Presidential Decree
No. 76-53 of March 25, 1976.



-7-
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
Objectives of the Project
4.01      The proposed project will help Government meet a number of its
priority objectives. First, it will relieve the immediate water pollution
and its associated health hazards in Algiers City (paras 3.10 and 3.11). This
in turn will permit redevelopment of the affected areas, and enable use to be
made of land presently vacant because of pollution (see Map 13057). Second,
the proposed recycling of wastewaters will provide a significant increase of
the water resources available to Greater Algiers and thus defer the time when
recourse must be had to more distant and costly sources (para 2.03). Third,
as a start in the rationalization and strengthening of the sector administra-
tion, a competent organization which could efficiently manage the water supply
and sewerage services of Greater Algiers, will be set up. To this end the
project includes specialist assistance to the management of SEDAL and inten-
sive training of its staff.
4.02      As mentioned earlier the deficiencies in the operation of water
supply and sewerage are not limited to Algiers, but are nationwide. The
systems in the country's most industrialized cities need to be rehabilitated
urgently. Therefore, the project includes the preparation of final engineering
design of water supply and sewerage studies for Oran, and feasibility studies
of water supply and sewerage for Constantine. These studies would also pro-
vide an opportunity for the Bank to assist Government in the formulation of
investment planning and decision making procedures for the sector.
Scope of the Sewerage Program
4.03      The proposed project covers the first construction stage of the
COMEDOR Sewerage Program and would consist of intercepting the discharge of
wastewaters into El Harrach River and treating them by the activated-sludge
process for their reuse in irrigation or the recharge of the Mitidja Plain's
groundwater aquifer. Forecast future water consumption in Greater Algiers is
outlined in Annex 1, para. 16. The projected volumes of wastewater and pol-
lution load in the project area are discussed in Annex 4, para. 7. The sewage
treatment facilities envisaged under the'Program would be built in four stages.
The first stage would meet the treatment requirements up to 1985. But sewage
collectors and interceptors would be built at once to serve the projected
saturation population of the area. The facilities required for the reuse of
the wastewaters would be built during the second stage of construction.
4.04      Various alternatives for proper disposal of sewage in Greater
Algiers were considered during project preparation. The possibility of using
oxidation lagoons was ruled out because of the unavailability of convenient
land close to the city and the high cost of pumping the wastewaters to the
lagoons. Another alternative considered was the construction of an ocean out-
fall. From June 1972 through April 1973, COMEDOR's engineering consultants
carried out various experiments in the Algiers Bay to determine the type and
intensity of water exchange and currents. The results of these experiments



-8-
indicate that there is no adequate mixing and dilution in the bay that could
prevent the adverse effects of discharging sewage in the bay. This alterna-
tive became still more unattractive in view of the need to recycle the waste-
waters (para. 2.03). Further, a congress of representatives of countries
bordering the Mediterranean Sea, sponsored by the United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP), met in Venice, Italy, from October 17 through October 21,
1977 and tentatively agreed to take special measures to prevent the discharge
of anoxic matters in the Mediterranean Sea.
Studies in Other Cities
4.05      A feasibility study of water supply for the metropolitan area of
Oran was prepared by WHO under a UNDP assistance program. This study recom-
mended the construction of additional water supply facilities for an estimated
total cost of US$850 million. A review of the study will first be undertaken
followed by final engineering design of the facilities. A feasibility study
of sewerage for Oran will also be carried out.
4.06      The water supply situation in Constantine is critical.  Less than
40 lpcd is now available, which is considered absolutely inadequate. Some
works are under way to double the present production, but this production
increase would still not be sufficient to satisfy the water supply needs of
the city's population. Futhermore, due to the water shortage the city's sewer
is almost inoperative. In view of this situation, Government has decided to
give priority to Constantine and to undertake immediately a study of ways to
increase water production and improve the water distribution and sewer net-
works of this city. Terms of reference for the studies in Oran and Constantine
are given in Annex 3; they have already been approved for Constantine.
Project Components
4.07      The major project components are as follows:
(i) construction of combined sewer interceptors along El Harrach
River banks and part of Algiers Bay;
(ii) construction of two sewage pumping stations each with a capac-
ity of 1,400 hp;
(iii) construction of the first stage of a sewage treatment plant
for an equivalent population of 750,000;
(iv) building of protective embankments for the proposed sewage
treatment plant and an existing water plant;
(v)  construction of headquarters for SEDAL;
(vi) supply of operational equipment (sewer cleaning machines,
leak detectors, etc.) for SEDAL;



(vii) setting up of SEDAL's structures and financial policies, and
technical assistance to its management;
(viii) training of SEDAL's staff;
(ix) water supply and sewerage studies for Oran and Constantine;
and
(x) consulting services for construction supervision of the pro-
posed works.
4.08      In parallel with the works described above, the installation of
sewers and collectors in the city's eastern area is underway and is being
fully financed by Government.  The financing and execution of house connec-
tions to the sewers are also included in the Government housing program.
4.09      The management assistance to SEDAL and training of its staff (4.07
(vii) and (viii)) are respectively described in paras. 5.04 and 5.07 to 5.11.
A detailed description of the proposed works is given in Annex 4. A general
layout of these works is illustrated in Map 13058.
Cost Estimates
4.10      The estimated total cost of the project is DA 624.6 million (US$154.2
million) with a foreign exchange component of DA 332.1 million (US$82.0 mil-
lion) or 53.2% of the total costs. The estimates are detailed in Annex 6.
Scheduled annual project investments are shown in Annex 7. A summary of the
cost estimates is as follows:



- 10 -
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Item                   ------DA million       --    ------US$ million------    %
Project Facilities
Sewer Interceptors  102.23    102.50  204.73    25.24         25.31   50.55
Pumping Stations       3.98       5.86    9.84      0.98       1.45    2.43
Treatment Plant       45.70      69.34  115.04    11.29       17.12   28.41
Protective Embank-
ments                 9.81       4.20   14.01      2.42       1.04    3.46
SEDAL's Head-
quarters              2.81       2.81    5.62      0.69       0.69    1.38
Operational Equip-
ment                  0.28       3.47    3.75      0.07       0.86    0.93
Subtotal             164.81    188.18  352.99    40.69        46.47   87.16  56.5
Management Assis-
tance                  0.90       1.94    2.84      0.22       0.48    0.70   0.5
Training Program        0.65       1.49    2.14       0.16      0.37    0.53   0.3
Engineering Studies   14.26       16.02   30.28       3.52       3.96    7.48   4.9
Subtotal             180.62    207.63  388.25    44.59        51.28   95.87  62.2
Construction Super-
vision                 5.12       8.31   13.43       1.26      2.05    3.31   2.1
Physical Contingen-
cies                  17.09      20.77   37.86      4.23       5.12    9.35   6.1
Price Escalation       89.63      95.38  185.01    22.13       23.55   45.68  29.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST  292.46    332.09  624.55    72.21         82.00  154.21 100.0
4.11      The cost estimates are based on construction price levels prevailing
in July 1977 and quantities of materials and equipment taken from detailed
construction plans which have been completed for all the proposed facilities
but the Algiers North Interceptor. Customs duties on imported equipment and
materials are included in the base costs. Since detailed engineering design
of the project is available, the base costs are only increased by 11% for
physical contingencies. Construction supervision of the project is estimated
at 4% of the base costs. To provide for price escalation during the project
execution, expenditures for equipment are assumed to increase annually by 7.5%
between 1977 and 1979, and 7% thereafter; these rates are in accordance with
current Bank guidelines. Expenditures for civil works construction are assumed
to increase annually by 15.5% in 1977, 12% in 1978, 10% in 1979 and 9% there-
after; those rates follow the trend of construction price increases in Algeria.
The current exchange rate of the Algerian Dinar to the US Dollar ($1 = DA 4.05)
is assumed to remain unchanged during the project execution.
4.12      The project provides for an estimated 1850 man-months of consulting
services for the management assistance, training program, the water supply and
sewerage studies in Oran and Constantine, and construction supervision of the
works in Algiers. The estimated inclusive cost of these services is US$11.65
million or on the average US$6,300 per man-month.



- Il -
Project Financing
4.13      A Bank loan of U$82 million to finance the foreign exchange cost
of the project is proposed. The loan would be made to Government and would
mature in 17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of
7.45%. SEDAL will reimburse Government for the foreign exchange cost (US$78
million) of the work program in Algiers (para. 6.06). In addition, Governnent
will make a contribution of US$72.2 million to cover the local costs of the
project. On this basis and according to the responsibilities for executing the
various parts of the project (para. 4.16), the financing plan for the project
is as follows:
Requirements                                     1978-1982
DA          US$
Project Expenditures by:                      --- Millions---       %
Government                                 601.5        148.5    96.3
SEDAL                                       23.1          5.7     3.7
Total Requirements                           624.6        154.2   100.0
Sources
Government Funds                           292.5         72.2    46.8
Proposed Bank Loan                         332.1         82.0    53.2
Total Sources                                624.6        154.2   100.0
It is estimated that of the Government funds US$3.6 million would be needed in
1978, US$8.4 million in 1979, US$19.6 million in 1980, US$19.1 million in
1981, and US$21.5 million in 1982. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Government will promptly make these amounts available for
project execution, and if necessary will provide any additional funds needed
for the project.
Procurement
4.14      All contracts for equipment supply and civil works for the project
will be placed by means of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement. For bid evaluation, a 15%
margin of preference or the actual customs duties, whichever is lower, would
be allowed for equipment manufactured in Algeria. Eight contracts are sched-
uled to be placed for the project (see Annex 4, para. 20). Foreign manufac-
turers are expected to win the supply of equipment for the treatment plant and
pumping stations, and operational equipment for SEDAL.   Foreign contractors
possibly associated with local partners are also expected to win the civil
works contracts.



- 12 -
Disbursements
4.15      The loan would be disbursed against:  (i) the full CIF cost of equip-
ment for the project and operational equipment for SEDAL; (ii) 100% of foreign
expenditures for consulting services; and (iii) 50% of total expenditures for
civil works construction. Allocation of the loan proceeds to the foregoing
types of disbursement is shown in Annex 4, Table 7-4. The estimated quarterly
disbursements of the loan and Government funds are given in Annex 8. The
closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1983. Should the project be
completed at a cost less than estimated, any loan surplus would then be
cancelled.
Project Implementation
4.16      The project would be executed in the years 1978 through 1982.  Gov-
ernment through the regional office of MHLIE in the Wilaya of Algiers (Direc-
tion de la Wilaya d'Alger Chargee de l'Hydraulique - DWH) would be responsible
for organizing the construction of the proposed sewerage facilities for Algiers
(para. 4.07, items (i) through (iv)); SEDAL would be responsible for executing
the rest of the program in Algiers (para. 4.07, items (v) through (viii));
MHLIE would be in charge of the studies in Oran and Constantine (para. 4.07,
item (ix)). Except for the Algiers North Interceptor whose design is being
prepared by a German consortium, Kittleberger - INCO, bidding documents for
the other works have already been completed by the same consortium. Also, the
land needed for the project has already been retained by Government. All
plans, bidding documents and shop drawings for the works under DWH's control
would be reviewed and approved by SEDAL.
4.17      A PERT program for project execution is illustrated-in Annex 9.
Bidding of the project elements is scheduled to begin in March 1978, and
construction to start by July 1978. During negotiations, the construction
schedule was discussed and adopted for the project. DWH and SEDAL also
agreed to review and update regularly the schedule as part of their quarterly
reports to the Bank.
4.18      DWH's engineering staff has limited experience in construction of
the works envisaged under the project, and consequently, would need the
assistance of engineering experts. The same can be said for MHLIE which
will execute the studies in Oran and Constantine. The existing COMEDOR
contract with Kittelberger-INCO provides for construction supervision of the
works until October 31, 1978; beyond that date, additional assistance would
be required for DWH. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained
from Government that: (i) experienced technical experts will continue to be
employed, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, to assist DWH in
project implementation; and (ii) qualified engineering consultants will be
employed, not later than September 30, 1978, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, to carry out the studies in Oran and Constantine.
4.19      At negotiations Government also agreed to strengthen DWH's staff
by assigning to DWH, not later than October 31, 1978, four Algerian civil



- 13 -
engineers who would be respectively involved in the procurement of equipment
and civil works for the project, design and construction of reinforced con-
crete structures, surveying and laying out of structures, channels and sewer
pipes, and finally wastewater treatment. The consultants will, in particular,
help DWH's staff in the evaluation of bids and the planning and quality con-
trol of the works. In addition, as part of the contract for construction of
the sewage treatment plant, the builder will be asked to operate the plant
during 3 years after its completion and to use this period to train the
Algerian staff that would be put in charge of the plant operations.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government at negotiations.
V. THE BENEFICIARY
Background
5.01      The project facilities would be operated by SEDAL, a new Wilaya
company which was formed by decree of the Wali of Algiers on October 18, 1977,
to be responsible within the area of Greater Algiers for the provision of
drinking and industrial water and the collection and treatment of wastewater.
A summary of SEDAL's statute is given in Annex 10. Prescription for its crea-
tion is contained in Presidential Order No. 77-13 of April 19, 1977 authoriz-
ing the merger of the two existing water supply companies (para. 3.05), a
meter-reading service company and the "Service de l'Assainissement de la Ville
d'Alger" (Sewerage Service). SONADE-WA was a division of the national water
company which was responsible for production of water, and for distribution
in the western part of the city. ECOEVA was formed in 1975 under the juris-
diction of the "Assemblee Populaire Communale" (APC) of Algiers to assume
responsibility for water distribution in the rest of the city. The third
company, "Societe Algerienne des Compteurs d'Eau" (SACE) had been in existence
for a number of years; its function was to install and maintain water meters
in the individual units in apartment buildings, to settle the amounts due
to SONADE-WA or ECOEVA according to the building's main meter, and to collect
amounts due from tenants according to the individual meters. Its income
derived from a service fee for each individual meter. The Sewerage Service,
as a former party of the municipal administration, is the only one of the
four components of SEDAL, which has never had separate corporate status.
Organization and Management
5.02      SEDAL is under the authority of the Wali of Algiers who appoints
the Director General, reviews and approves major decisions covering annual
capital and operating budgets, tariff levels, borrowings, code of employment,
salary levels and major contract awards. MHLIE through its representative at
the Wilaya (DWH) provides technical support to the Wali. The Director General
is responsible for the day-to-day operations; presently his deputy is also
technical director.



- 14 -
5.03      At the time of appraisal SEDAL was in the process of formation and
managers of each of the four component entities were familiarizing themselves
with the organization and operations of the others. Before the formation of
SEDAL, the relationship between SONADE-WA, ECOEVA and SACE had been simply
those of supplier/customer, and between these companies and the Sewerage
Service virtually none. The present organization (shown graphically in Annex
11) is provisional and a number of major policy decisions remain to be taken,
including in particular the extent to which water supply and sewerage activi-
ties and personnel should be integrated at the working level. An important
component of the project is, therefore, the provision of technical assistance
to SEDAL in establishing its structure. This assistance comprises organiza-
tion/management and financial studies. The former are briefly described
below, the latter in Chapter VI. Terms of reference for this assistance are
in Annex 12; they were discussed and approved during negotiations.
Management Assistance
5.04      The program of management assistance to SEDAL has four main com-
ponents:
(i) definition of the broad lines of the company's organization
structure, and its consultative or other relationships with
other agencies of the Wilaya and Government;
(ii) preparation of job descriptions and statements of objec-
tives for all functional heads;
(iii) development of detailed organization structures for all
divisions and departments, and a comparison of staff
resources with needs; and
(iv) selection of the most efficient method of integrating
certain common services, particularly billing and col-
lection, stores and transport.
The management studies would also identify any more detailed systems work that
SEDAL might need to carry out to derive the maximum advantage from its new
structure. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that SEDAL will,
not later than September 30, 1978, employ suitably qualified consultants to
carry out the management assistance according to terms of reference agreed
with the Bank, and that at the conclusion of the studies it will promptly
review the recommendations with Government and the Bank and adopt the agreed
structures and administrative procedures.
Staffing
5.05      The present staff of SEDAL number about 1,300, representing an aver-
age of 1 employee per 1,000 people served, which is considered reasonable.
Still, opportunities for economies exist by regrouping of the former employees
of SONADE-WA and ECOEVA who were performing similar tasks, and the above ratio



- 15 - 
should decrease in future, as additional staff would not be needed immediately
to meet the requirements of further expansion of SEDAL's operations. About
1,060 staff come from SONADE-WA, ECOEVA and SACE, the rest from the Sewerage
Service. Salaries and conditions of service of the employees of the former
three companies are competitive with those of other sectors; those of the
staff of the Sewerage Service are low and are to be adjusted after their
transfer to SEDAL.
5.06      The competence of SEDAL's higher management staff is good, but there
is a shortage of skilled and experienced engineers. Technical managers are
also needed for the new divisions of design, construction and sewerage oper-
ations. SEDAL intends to continue applying the same work convention that has
been in effect in SONADE-WA, ECOEVA and SACE, and thus should be able to
attract and retain competent technicians. However, since the necessary skills
that SEDAL is looking for do not exist in Algeria, SEDAL should execute a
training program (paras. 5.07-5.11) to provide its staff with the required
expertise.
Training Program
5.07      A preliminary study of the training requirements, carried out during
the appraisal, shows that about 620 administrative, technical and operational
staff need to receive special training. To help meet this need, a training
program is proposed for execution over the next four years. The setting up
of a Training Centre to provide continuous training in the company is also
proposed and would be the first step in the development of the program. At
first, SEDAL will hire two training advisors to set up this centre and train
its instructors who will develop the details of the training program and be
responsible for the preparation and execution of future programs.
5.08      The development of the training program will involve the following
steps:
(i) detailed surveys of the short-term and long-term training
needs;
(ii)  design and preparation of the program, establishment of a
timetable for the courses, instruction sheets;
(iii) acquisition of teaching material and equipment;
(iv)  selection of instructors and nomination of trainees;
(v)  holding of seminars and classes, field courses, laboratory
and shop practices; and
(vi)  evaluation of the training results.
5.09      The trainees would be divided into two groups:  management staff/
supervisors and administrative staff/operatives. The training of the first
group would basically include:



- 16 -
() in-service training by consultants and working on-the-job;
(ii) seminars and work discussions on management techniques in
general and operation of water supply and sewerage in
particular;
(iii) participation in the elaboration of training programs for
the other group and evaluation of the functions of this
group; and
(iv) participation in selected specialized courses abroad.
5.10      Training of the second group would be function-oriented, aiming at
improving the skill of the staff to meet manpower requirements of SEDAL. Thus,
special training courses in clerical work, administration, finance, accounting,
water and sewerage treatment plant operations, leak detection and control in
water distribution systems, water metering, maintenance of sewer systems,
would be given by special consultants. Both groups would participate in
sessions of instruction in the new corporate procedures developed in the
management studies (para. 5.04).
5.11      The estimated cost of the training program is US$0.53 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$0.37 million which would be financed under the
proposed loan. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from SEDAL that:
(i) it will hire two training advisors acceptable to the Bank and will submit
a detailed description and schedule of the training program for Bank review
and comments, not later than September 30, 1978; and (ii) it will subsequently
hire instructors and consultants acceptable to the Bank to execute the program.
Billing and Collection
5.12      Until the formation of SEDAL, the three companies engaged in water
supply operated separate billing and collection systems which differed con-
siderably in detail. The Sewerage Service carried out no billing apart from
connection charges, since its revenues were derived from an apportionment of
property taxes, assessed and collected centrally. Billing of SONADE-WA's
customers is up to date; ECOEVA's billing has been considerably in arrears
(about 1 year at appraisal) but the backlog is reducing and should be cleared
by mid-1978. The rationalization of SEDAL's billing and collection procedures
is a major task that will be addressed in the program of management assistance
(para. 5.04).
Accounting System
5.13      The four component entities of SEDAL have hitherto maintained their
accounts on widely different bases. SONADE-WA and SACE used an accruals
system, while ECOEVA's accounts were on a cash basis; the accounts of the
Sewerage Service were integral with the municipal accounts of the City of
Algiers. Nevertheless, considerable progress has already been made towards
harmonizing these systems. In addition, the fixed assets of ECOEVA have been



- 17 -
inventoried and valued at depreciated replacement cost, and a valuation of the
assets of the Sewerage Service is well advanced. Plans are already in hand
for the eventual introduction of computer-based systems for inventory control
and billing. Assistance to SEDAL in implementing these systems will be pro-
vided by the Algerian data processing company and the equipment manufacturer.
Audit
5.14      The accounts of ECOEVA, SONADE-WA and SACE have not been audited
for some years. Under present arrangements, the accounts of SEDAL should be
subject to audit by a "Commissaire aux Comptes", who in the case of SEDAL
(as a company of the Wilaya) would be appointed by the Wali. The Bank's
experience of audits carried out by the "Commissaires aux Comptes" has not,
in the past, been fully satisfactory. In addition, SEDAL's staff could draw
particular advantage during the company's formative years from a regular
exchange of views with an auditor of wider experience and vision than that
required of a "Commissaire aux Comptes" in the discharge of his governmental
duties.
5.15      Under the SNMC Expansion Project (Loan 1185-AL), the Bank is assist-
ing the development of the "Societe Nationale de Comptabilite" (SNC) into a
state audit, accounting and consulting firm. To this end, a training con-
tract was signed in July 1977 between SNC and an international firm of account-
ants and auditors. SNC would thus appear better qualified to carry out the
audit of SEDAL's accounts. At negotiatons, agreement was reached that SNC
will be appointed to audit SEDAL's accounts, and that SEDAL's annual fi-
nancial statements, certified by its external auditors, will be submitted
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
beginning with 1978. As part of the management assistance, an internal audit
section reporting to the Director General will be set up in SEDAL.
Insurance
5.16      Of the four component entities of SEDAL, only SONADE-WA has in the
past carried full insurance coverage (fire and theft, civil liability and
vehicles); ECOEVA and SACE carried vehicle insurance only. At negotiations,
assurances were secured that SEDAL will arrange appropriate insurance coverage
in accordance with good public utility practice.
VI. FINANCE
Past and Present Financial Position
6.01      Because of disparities between the accounting systems (para. 5.13)
and the short corporate history of ECOEVA, it has been possible to compute



- 18 -
past results for the constituent entities of SEDAL on a consistent basis only
for 1976; even so, the accounts contain some approximations. They are de-
tailed at Annex 13 and summarized below:
Net Income
Before Depreciation      Depreciation       Net Income
Water Companies             - ----------------DA Million--------------------
ECOEVA                             12.0                    9.1             2.9
SONADE                             (1.6)                   2.9            (4.5)
SACE                               (0.6)                   0.1            (0.7)
9.8                  12.1             (2.3)
Sewerage Service                   (5.8)                   7.6           (13.4)
Total                               4.0                   19.7           (15.7)
The net cash flow of the water companies was adequate in 1976 mainly by virtue
of the depreciation retentions; however, it would have been insufficient to
meet the unrecovered costs of the sewerage service if the companies had been
merged during 1976.
6.02      A notional consolidated balance sheet for the component entities
of SEDAL as of December 31, 1976 (Annex 15) discloses the following salient
points:
DA Million
Assets
Net Fixed Assets:  Water Supply          264
Sewerage            153                  417
Current Assets                                               126
Total Assets                                                 543
Financed by:
Government Equity                                            492
Loan Debt                                                     18
Current Liabilities                                           33
Total Equity and Liabilities                                 543
The low debt:equity ratio (4:96) reflects the fact that most of the assets
were constructed at Government expense and transferred to the companies debt-
free for operation. The small loan debt (to the APC of Algiers) is due for
repayment in 1979, with an option to renew it for a further 5 years. The high
level of current assets reflects the backlog of billing then existing in
ECOEVA (para. 5.12) and includes DA 29 million in cash.



- 19 -
Revenues
6.03      The water companies derived their revenues from water sales at DA
0.60/m3 for all customers and from other charges such as connection fees,
meter rentals and maintenance, and service fees for the customers of SACE.
Apart from connection charges, the only income of the Sewerage Service was
the yield of the "Taxe de Deversement aux Egouts" (sewer tax). This tax repre-
sents a portion of the national property tax which is handed over to the com-
munes which are responsible for providing sewerage services. Publicly owned
buildings (about 80% of properties in Algiers) do not pay the tax, and so the
yield has been quite inadequate to cover the cost of the services; in 1976, at
DA 1.5 million, it covered only about 10% of the costs.
6.04      It is clear that SEDAL needs a new mechanism for recovering the
costs of providing sewerage services. Government also recognizes that the
simple single-rate water tariff is no longer appropriate to a growing city
with diverse consumer groups and in which financial incentives to encourage
economy of water use are becoming increasingly desirable. A comprehensive
tariff study for SEDAL would therefore be undertaken under the project as part
of a package of management assistance. Meanwhile, Government in December 1977
authorized SEDAL to implement forthwith an increase in the water average rate
to DA 1.00/m3 in order to generate sufficient income to cover its operating
and maintenance costs (including depreciation) in full until December 31,
1979, when the the tariff study is to be completed and the resultant decisions
implemented.
6.05      The uncertainties surrounding the level of revenue in and after 1980
(and, to a lesser extent, the pattern of costs that will emerge after full
integration of SEDAL's component entities) make it difficult to forecast the
company's debt servicing capability, and hence the debt: equity ratio which it
could support.  To clarify these matters, financial studies complementary to
the tariff study will:
(i) prepare detailed projections for a 10-year period of the
costs and revenues of SEDAL; and
(ii)  on this basis, propose financial objectives for SEDAL's
management and a financing plan for future capital
expenditures which would be appropriate to the company's
operations.
Reimbursement of Government
6.06      Current Algerian policy (summarized in Annex 16) requires that
public enterprises finance their investments principally by long-term loans,
and eventually develop a self-financing capability. It is therefore intended
that SEDAL should reimburse Government for part of the investment in the
project.



- 20 -
6.07       Interest and other charges on the Bank loan during project construc-
tion will be paid by Government. Upon completion of the works in Algiers, the
project facilities will be handed over to SEDAL for operation and added to
SEDAL's assets. From January 1, 1984 SEDAL will start to reimburse Government
for the equivalent of the funds obtained from the Bank for the work program in
Algiers; interest and other charges paid by Government prior to that date will
be added to the principal sum to be reimbursed by SEDAL. Details of the
reimbursement modalities together with the conditions of Government financing
of the project will be set forth in a Reimbursement Agreement between Govern-
ment and SEDAL. The execution of this agreement with terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
Future Financial Performance
6.08       The future financial performance of SEDAL may conveniently be con-
sidered in two parts: the period to end-1979, and subsequent years. As noted
in para. 6.04 Government intends that the increased water price of DA 1.00/m3
should (in conjunction with other charges) suffice to provide SEDAL with the
income necessary to cover operating, maintenance and depreciation expenses.
Forecast income statements for these years (Annex 13) show that this is likely
to be the case. A forecast cash flow statement (Annex 14) shows that SEDAL
should be able to finance about DA 50 million of its investment program of
DA 140 million in water supply works, from depreciation retentions and reduc-
tions in working capital, and will consequently need complementary financing
of about DA 90 million from Government.
6.09       After 1979, SEDAL's financial performance depends on the adoption
of mutually consistent tariff and financial policies, which will be developed
through the financial studies provided under the project. The examination of
policy options in Annex 17 concludes that practical constraints to the rate
of tariff growth are likely to prevent the company from adopting marginal cost
pricing policies, or developing more than a nominal rate of return, until
some time after it has assumed operating responsibility for the project
facilities. The company may reasonably be expected to be financially viable,
however, provided it maintains sensible debt:equity ratio. The limit of
SEDAL's debt-servicing capability is likely to be about 25%-30% of its total
capitalization, which represents approximately the amount of the Bank loan
for the project, and which therefore forms the basis of the Reimbursement
Agreement (para. 6.07).
6.10       It must, however, be re-emphasized that conclusions as to SEDAL's
future performance can presently only be arrived at on very incomplete data,
and must therefore be regarded as tentative. They may be modified when the
financial studies are completed. At negotiations, agreement was reached
that SEDAL will, not later than September 30, 1978, employ suitably qualified
consultants to carry out the tariff and financial studies according to terms



- 21 -
of reference acceptable to the Bank, and will review the results of the
studies with Government and the Bank, and implement promptly decisions agreed
with them as to tariffs, financial objectives, and self-financing
capability from 1980 onwards.  Terms of reference for the studies appear at
Annex 12; they were discussed and approved during negotiations.
6.11      At negotiations, assurances were obtained from SEDAL and Government
that as a minimum standard of financial performance SEDAL will, through
charges for its services, secure a revenue sufficient to cover not less
than:
(i) operating and maintenance costs, including depreciation, for
each financial year beginning with 1978;
(ii) operating and maintenance costs, including depreciation,
interest and (to the extent not covered by depreciation)
amortization of loan debt for each financial year begin-
ning with 1980.
Monitoring System
6.12      Annex 18 shows the indicators which would be monitored during project
execution to measure the achievement of the technical and financial goals set
for SEDAL, and improvements of water quality in Greater Algiers. This Annex
also gives the values forecast for these indicators in the years 1978 and
1979, which were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. The predicted
values of the indicators after 1979 will be submitted to the Bank by SEDAL
following completion of the financial studies. Agreement was reached with
SEDAL that the evolution of the indicators will be reported to the Bank on a
quarterly basis during project execution, and on an annual basis for five
years after project completion, and that it will carry out any reasonable
remedial action suggested by the Bank. During supervision missions, SEDAL's
performance will be discussed and evaluated with its staff on the basis of
these indicators.
6.13      At negotiations, assurances were also secured that DWE and SEDAL,
within six months following the closing date of the loan, will prepare and
submit to the Bank a completion report on the execution and initial operation
of the project, its costs and the benefits derived or to be derived from it,
the performance and fulfillment by DWH, SEDAL and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan and Project Agreements and the accomplishment of
the objectives of the Bank loan.



- 22 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
Objectives of the Proposed Investments
7.01      The need for treating the wastewater generated in the Algiers conur-
bation can no longer be escaped if the present health hazards (paras. 3.10 and
3.11) are to be reduced substantially and if further urban expansion is har-
moniously to take place to relieve population congestion in the inner city.
The volume of liquid wastes discharged into El Harrach River largely exceeds
its self-purification recovery capacity and should be stopped completely to
allow the river to regain its natural ecological environment. At present, all
high- and medium-income families live in the western part of Algiers City, far
from El Harrach River and its nuisances, while the poorer urban population
resides in shanty towns developed along El Harrach River banks in the eastern
part.  This population is suffering waterborne diseases stemming from its
contact with the contaminated water.
7.02      The proposed works will help abate water pollution in the river and
the bay, and will improve sanitary conditions in the eastern part of the city.
The project, which calls for the reuse of the treated sewage, would also
result in a substantial increase of the water resources in Greater Algiers.
Drilling of water wells and construction of transmission facilities are
already under way. This increase would be used to provide water to the poor
in the eastern part and to improve vater supply services in general in the
conurbation. At negotiations, agreement was reached that SEDAL will take all
necessary measures to start providing by 1980 public water supply and sewerage
services to the 25% of Greater Algiers' population not now connected to water
and sewer networks.
7.03      Under the proposed project, about 2,000 jobs would be created, of
which 100 would be permanent. The estimated average cost of sustaining a job
in this case is US$47,000 or only 6% greater than the Algerian threshold for a
poverty-oriented project. Some 90% of the jobs would go to unskilled laborers.
Least-Cost Solution
7.04      The proposed project is the least-cost solution for proper disposal
of wastewater in Greater Algiers. Further, the contemplated treatment and
recyling of wastewater, associated with groundwater collection, is also the
least-cost way to increase the water resources for Greater Algiers. The only
other technically feasible alternative would be to collect surface waters
located outside the Algiers basin. The latter is more expensive than the pro-
posed scheme at all discount rates lower than 12% (see Annex 19, para. 5).
The sewer interceptors would be built at once for their ultimate capacity.
This is the most economical and feasible way to build them. The treatment
plant and pumping stations would be constructed in four stages.



- 23 -
Institution Building
7.05      In the last two years, Algeria has taken a new turn initiated by the
President who has called for improved management efficiency. The administra-
tive framework for water supply and sewerage in Algiers, which existed before
the country's independence in 1962, is still in place, and needs to be im-
proved urgently. This project, which to date represents the best planned and
largest water supply and sewerage work undertaken by Government, provides
the opportunity to set up an efficient model authority which could be repro-
duced in other similar areas of the country, and to develop MHLIE's construc-
tion supervision capability which would be valuable for the preparation
and execution of further projects. Government is given its highest priority
to the project and to the establishment of SEDAL and is awaiting the results
of this new approach to managing water supply and sewerage with institutions
like SEDAL, before making further reforms in the sector.
Economic Justification
7.06      If the additional water that would become available after the
project is completed is valued at the current price of DA 1/m3 as a minimum
measure of the project benefits, the benefit/cost ratio of the project
is practically unity at the discount rate of 8%, which is considered the
relevant opportunity cost of capital in Algeria. There are, however, many
other extra market benefits that would result from the project, such as
improvement of the public health, provision for storm drainage and flood
protection, increased land utilization, improved environmental esthetics, the
use of the river and the bay for fishing and recreational activities, and were
it possible to quantify them, the benefit/cost ratio of the project would be
much greater than unity.
7.07      At the discount rate of 8%, the long-run average incremental cost
of sewerage is DA 0.50 per m3 of water consumed, and an extra of DA 0.09/m2/
year of land occupied (see Annex 19, para. 10). At the same rate, the aver-
age incremental cost of water supply is DA 1.00/m3, which is precisely the
current water rate.  The study of the new tariffs, (para. 6.04) which will
be implemented by 1980, will take bearing on the calculated marginal costs
of water supply and sewerage in Greater Algiers. A sensitivity analysis of
the project costs and revenues (Annex 19, para. 12) shows that the expected
return on the proposed investments is not significantly sensitive to moderate
changes in the levels of capital costs and future water sales and that a rate
higher than 8% may be anticipated.
Risks
7.08      There are some serious risks involved in the execution of the pro-
posed project. Similar work has not previously been executed in Algeria and
the operation of the sewerage facilities would require a certain expertise
which at this time does not exist in the country. SEDAL itself has been
recently created and it would be some time before a strong organization is
in place. Some important decisions on financial policies would be taken only
later after completion of studies, and there is the risk that implementtion



- 24 -
of these policies might be delayed by Government. However, this risk is
worth taking in view of the opportunity for the Bank to assist Government
and SEDAL in formulating these policies and the clearly expressed desire
of Government to improve the management of water supply and sewerage in
the country.
7.09      The measures recommended through this report, such as (i) the assis-
tance of consultants for management and construction supervision; (ii) the
proposed training of SEDAL's staff; (iii) the operation of the treatment plant
and training of the plant's operational staff by the plant's builder for a
3-year period following construction completion of the plant; and (iv) the
Bank's monitoring of key performance indicators for SEDAL should minimize the
project risks.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the issues referred to in Chapters
IV through VII of this report and subject to the condition of effectiveness
set forth in para. 6.07, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$82 million to Government for a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.
In view of the expected 5-year construction period of the project, an appro-
priate term for the reimbursement by SEDAL to Government of the loan funds is
17 years after a 6-year grace period.
January 25,1978



- 25 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
General Features
1.        Algeria is the largest country of the Maghreb sub-continent and
occupies an area of about 2.3 million km2 which may be divided into 5 regions:
(i) the narrow coastal land along the Mediterranean Sea; (ii) the interior
plains; (iii) the highlands near the coast; (iv) the high plateaux located
at about 200 km from the coast; and (v) the Sahara. There are 17 major river
basins in the country. Administratively, Algeria is divided into 31 provinces
(Wilayate), 160 counties (dairate) and 691 communes.
2.        Mean annual rainfalls exceed 600 mm only in the central and eastern
coastal parts of the northern region. Surface water resources are limited and
of difficult exploitation. In addition, there are no favorable sites for regu-
lating the rivers. The rate of evaporation is high and runoff is limited,
even in the irrigated areas. Meanwhile, the rate of infiltration is high and
groundwater is available almost everywhere, though it is very often saline
and of difficult exploitation. Groundwater reserves account for more than
two-thirds of the available water resources.
Population
3.        The April 1966 census recorded a total population of 12.1 million.
The last census (February 1977) tentatively put this population at 16.5 mil-
lion, resulting in an average annual population growth rate of 2.8% in the
last eleven years. The urban population was calculated in 1966 to be 3.9 mil-
lion or 32.2% of the total population. It now exceeds 50% of the total popu-
lation. Most of the urban population is concentrated in the coastal areas.
About 40% of this population live in the metropolitan areas of Algiers, Oran
and Constantine. Almost 95% of the total population is concentrated in the
northern region of the country in a strip of 280,000 km2 along the Mediter-
ranean coast, where the average population density reaches 56 inhabitants per
km2. Closer to the coast the density is much higher, reaching about 1,500
inhabitants per km2. The majority of the rural population resides in fixed
agglomerated locations which need to be equipped with water supply and sewer-
age. Only 5% of this population roaming in the high plateaux can be consid-
ered dispersed.
Housing
4.        Housing development has not kept pace with the country's demographic
explosion, with the result of extremely high population densities in the inner
cities, which are now surrounded by slums. It is estimated that more than a
million new residences should be made available in order to ease the housing
situation, which the Government is expected to redress by 1990. The lack of



-26 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
housing facilities can be observed through the number of people served by a
water service line, which has continued to increase since 1966. A study of
169 cases of cholera in Algiers shows that 84% of them were in dwellings
without water service lines and 89% in dwellings without sewer connections.
Service Levels
5.        Table 1-1 shows the percentages of populations in cities with more
than 50,000 inhabitants connected to public water supply and sewer systems.
About 60% of the country's total population is connected to public water sup-
ply networks. More than 80% of the urban population is provided with direct
water services lines, but only a third of this population is considered well
served. In some cities the supply is intermittent, disinfection of the waters
is practiced on an irregular basis, and most of the production and distribu-
tion facilities do not have sufficient capacity. In general the distribution
networks are in bad condition and a high percentage of water produced (around
50% in some cities) is unaccounted for. A majority of the individual water
meters in the intermediate and small cities are broken and 12aks in the net-
works are important.
6.        About 70% of the urban population is connected to public sewer net-
works which in most cases are combined systems evacuating also stormwater
runoff. With a few exceptions, the wastewaters are not treated; some towns
use them in irrigation.
7.        The situation is about the same in the rural sector.  About 80% of
the rural locations have public water supply systems; 60% of them have sewer
systens.  About 40% of the rural population is connected to the water supply
networks; only 25% to the sewerage.
Sector Organization
8.        The Ministry of Hydraulics, Land Improvement and Environment (MHLIE)
is responsible for the management of the country's water resources. An agency
of this Ministry, the "Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau Potable et
Industrielle" (SONADE), builds and operates water supply production facili-
ties. Other agencies of this Ministry are. also involved in the planning
of water supply works: BNEH in hydraulic studies; SONAGTHER, hydraulic
design and equipment; SNREAH, water research and hydraulic works; and ONAMHY,
manufacturing of hydraulic equipment. At present, there are 13,400 staff in
the Ministry of Hydraulies.
9.        Water supply distribution and sewerage collection services in the
cities are administered by municipal authorities (regies) which are controlled
by the APWs (Assemblee Populaire de Wilaya) and APCs (Assemblee Populaire
Communale). Decentralized offices of the Ministry of Hydraulics provide tech-
nical support to the APWs and APCs whose operations are supervised by the Min-
istry of Interior.  Various other Ministries (Plan, Health, Agriculture and
Industries) also intervene in the sector.



Table 1-1: Service Levels in Cities with More than 50.000 Inhabitants
WATER SUPPLY SERVICES                                                          SEWERAGE SERVTCES
Population in Thousands                    Volume of Water, 1,000 mJ/dasy          Aver. per Cap.   Service    Population in Thousands             Type of
No.       City                    Total       Connected      7. of Total      Produced      Sold    Unaccounted for        Cons. 1/day       Lines       Connected      % of Total         Syste
(1)                      (2)           (3)       (4) - (3) x 100       (5)         (6)   (7) = (5)-(6) x 100        (8) = (6)         (9)         (10)      (11) = (10) x 100    (12)
(2)                                       (5)                      (3)                                       (2)
1       Algiers                  1,411         1,044             74            216.0       151.0          30.0                 145          46,300          988              70           Combined
2       Oran                       470           442            94             124.0        93.0          25.0                 210           21,300         470             100           Combined
3       Constantine                400           280            70              26.6        11.9          55.0                  42           16,200         360              90           Combined
4       Annaba                     313           282             90             71.0        50.0          29.6                 177           11,000         219              70           Combined
5       Setif                      131           118             90              5.9         4.1          29.9                  35            7,200         105              80           Combined
6       Blida                      129          -                               -           -              -                    -             -              -                -           Combined
7       Sidi Bel Abes              121           115            95              14.7         9.2          37.5                  80            8,100                           -            -
8       Tlemcen                    116            70             60             16.0         8.3          48.0                 120            4,300          -                -
9       Skikda                     100           100           100              30.5        20.3          33.5                 203            2,300         100             100           Combined
10       Mostaganem                  99            84             85              8.5         6.0          29.4                  71           14,700          98              99           Combined
il       Batna                       93            70             75             24.5        -               -                   -             -              37              40           Separate
12       El Asnam                    92            74            80              13.6         6.9          49.1                  94            6,000          83              90           Combined
13       Bejaia                      87            65            75               8.2         4.8          40.8                  74            4,200          65              75           Combined
14       Ouargla                     87            52            60               5.2        -              -                     -            -              -                -
15       Biska                       77            73             95              8.6         6.1          30.0                   83           6,400          62              80           Combined
16       Medea                       72            25             35             14.6        _               _ -                        -              -               -                   Combined
17       Tizi Ouzou                  72            65            90              10.6         5.0          52.6                  77            4,000          -                -           Combined
18       Tebessa                     65            39             60              2.4         1.7          30.0                   43           3,800          52              80           Combined
19       Touggourt                   65            52             80              5.5         3.9          30.0                   74           5,000            8             12            Separate
20       Ghardaîa                    60            48            80              46.7        -               -                    -           10,800           -               -             -            "
21       Guelma                      59            29            50               7.0         5.0          28.6                  169           3,900           44             75            Combined
22       Tiaret                      58            38             65              5.4         3.2           39.8                  85           2,700           -               -
23       Mascara                     58            41             70              5.9         3.8           35.1                  94           3,700           52             90            Separate
24       Souk Ahra*                  58            23            40               3.5         2.4          30.0                  104           2,400           53             92            Combined
25       Ain M'Lila                  58          -                 -              4.3                        -                    -            1,000          46              80            Separate
26       Bordj B. Arreridj           57            46             80              2.3        -               -                    -            3,800          46              80            Combined
27       Relizane                    57            46             80              8.4         4.0          52.0                   87           3,900           -                -
28       Bechar                      54          -                 -              6.9         4.8           30.0                  -            6,000           -               -            Combined
29       Laghouat                    52            31            60               7.2         3.5          51.4                  112           4,700            3              5            Separate
30       Saida                       51            47             93              5.9         3.4          42.7                  125           1,900           -                -            -
31       Mohaimmadia                 50            40             80              6.4         3.8          40.0                   96           1,500           48             95            Separate
32       Jijel                       50            45             90              4.8         3,2           33.3                  71           3,200           40             80            Separate
1/ Ail data shown refer to conditions prevailing at the beginning of 1974.
Column (2) gives the total population in the cities' metropolitan areas.
Columr (3) and (10) give the populations connected respectively to the public water supply and sewer systems.
Column (7) shows the percentage of water produced but not accounted for.              in t
Column (8) gives the per capita average volume of water (liters/day) consumed in the cities.
Column (9) indicates the number of dwellings connected to the public water distribution network.                                                                                                    >
November 16, 1977



- 28 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
10.       SONADE was established on November 23, 1970 by Presidential Ordi-
nance No. 70-82, to be responsible for both production and distribution of
potable water in the country. On January 16, 1974 another Presidential
Ordinance stripped SONADE of its responsibility for distribution. This
decision was made to avoid a constitutional conflict, since under the actual
political organization the APWs/APCs have this responsibility. SONADE has
regional offices in the eastern, western and central parts of the country;
it carries no activities in the south.
11.       Water rights in Algeria are governed by a combination of old
Napoleonic French laws, Islamic rules and modern socialist principles. A
water code is now under preparation. Essentially, the code would give the
Ministry of Hydraulics the exclusive right to (i) determine the best use of
the water resources; (ii) decide on their allocation to various needs, and
transfers between river basins and wilayate; and (iii) plan regional projects.
The water code would also propose regulations to prevent water wastes and
pollution, and the setting up of a national fund to finance water supply
projects.
Sector Program
12.       The Second Four-Year Investment Plan (1974-1977) included DA 4 bil-
lion or about DA 240 per capita for water supply and sewerage works. About
DA 1 billion of this amount was for completing works initiated during the
previous plan (1967-1973). These investments accounted for about 4% of the
total capital expenditures in the public sector. The selection of communi-
ties where investments have been made was based on the population growth rate,
population density, percentage of population served, possibility of improving
the existing systems and reducing water losses. All projects have been fi-
nanced 100% by Government grants, and SONADE and the regies have practically
no debt. It is estimated that investments in the order of DA 5 billion or
about DA 600 per capita for the population presently not served, would be
necessary to make up the deficiencies of the services. This financing is
being considered in the third Four-Year Investment Plan now in preparation.
Financial Situation
13.       In 1973 SONADE had an operating deficit of DA 45,000; it increased
to DA 10 million in 1974 or about 26% of its total water sales of DA 38 mil-
lion in that year. At the end of 1975 SONADE's receivables amounted to two
years of sales. This situation further deteriorated in 1976. SONADE's
tariffs, which were recently increased, vary from DA 0.20/m3 to DA 0.60/m3,
but are still considered insufficient to cover its operating and maintenance
costs.
14.       The regies' tariff structure is generally simplistic and inefficient;
in most cases it is a flat rate irrespective of the type of use or volume con-
sumed. In general, the regies do not keep accounts separate from those of the
APCs and consequently it is very difficult to assess their financial situation,
though, it appears that, except for the Oran regie, their operations are often
greatly subsidized by the APCs. No sewerage tariffs are levied in Algeria.



ANNEX 1
- 29 -                          Page 5 of 7
A small portion of property taxes paid annually by private owners is allocated
to sewer services. But these revenues are reported to be grossly insufficient
to meet the operation and maintenance expenses of the sewer systems.
Water Supply and Sewerage in Algiers
15.       Table 1-2 gives the volumes of potable water produced and consumed,
the average per capita daily consumption and the number of service lines in
Algiers during the last 10 years. There are presently about 48,700 house
water connections serving 1.3 million people or 75% of the city's population.
Each connection on average serves 27 persons who actually consumed 1,380 m3/
year. Both the average number of persons and consumption at a service line
have been increasing since 1966, reflecting the population congestion and
lack of housing in the city. About 70% of the population is provided with
sewerage services through 44,000 sewer connections. Some 300 new sewage con-
nections are executed annually and most of them are financed by the Government
as part of its housing program. Private owners of dwellings (less than 20%
in Algiers) are responsible for the execution of their sewage connections.
16.       Forecast of future water sales and number of service lines in
Algiers in the next ten years is shown on Table 1-2 and is based on a mathe-
matical model relating water consumption to population connected. This rela-
tionship is expressed in the form:
Y = 4.5 x l0-4 x3.1
where "Y" is water sold in 106m3 per year and "X" the number of service lines
in thousands. This equation is graphically represented in Annex 2. As it can
be observed on this graph, the correlation of the historical data is almost
perfect (r2 = 0.993). It is predicted that future water sales would grow in
the next decade at an average annual rate of 4% and that 80% of the city's
population would be directly connected to the distribution network by 1986.
It is also forecast that, in view of the progressive expansion of the network
into areas occupied by low-income families using less water, the average per
capita daily consumption of people connected to the system would decrease from
the present 140 to 130 liters and the number of persons supplied by a service
line would increase from 25 to 36 by 1986.
Water Supply and Sewerage in Oran and Constantine
17.       The organization of water supply and sewerage services in the cities
of Oran and Constantine is to a great extent similar to that of Algiers. In
Oran potable water distribution is managed by the "Regie Communale des Eaux",
an administrative unit of the Oran APC. About 95% of the city's population
is directly connected to the water network through 22,000 service lines. The
regie currently purchases bulk water from SONADE at DA 0.40/m3. Unaccounted-
for water amounts to 25% of the volumes purchased. The per capita consumption
is adequate, about 210 liters/day. The regie is self-accounting. In 1976 it
earned a small profit, but the whole of this was attributable to activities
other than water supply.



Table 1-2 Population, Water Sales and Service Lines in Algiers, Past and Forecast
1/                                   61/
Population in Thousands                     Volume of Water 106 M3                   Av. Per Cap.       Service Lines           Cons. Per            Av. No. Persons
Year         Total       Connected      % of Total      Produced        Sold       Unaccounted for        Cons. 1/day        Total       New         SL. M3/Year             Per SL.
(1)          (2)           (3)      (4) =(3) x 100        (5)           (6)      (7)   (5)-(6) x 100  (8) = (6) x aoo0    (9)           (10)      (11) =(6)              (12) =f(3)
(2)                                           (5)                  (3) x  365                                 (9)                    (9)
1967         1,009           716           71.0           56.75         -                  -                   -            41,418      6,108             -                     17.3
1968         1,065           760           71.4           60.77        43.78             28.0                 158           42,341        923            1,034                   17.9
1969         1,123           807           71.9           61.80        46.52             24.7                 158           43,185        844           1,077                   18.7
1970         1,185           857           72.3           63.18        48.42             23.4                 155           43,834        649            1,105                   19.6
1971         1,250           910           72.8           64.13        51.15             20.2                 154           44,366        532           1,153                   20.5
1972         1,319           967           73.3           65.51        52.30             20.2                 148           44,880        514           1,165                   21.5
1973         1,391        1,025            73.7           80.08        56.00             30.1                 150           45,627        747           1,227                   22.5
1974         1,468        1,089            74.2           81.71        57.42             29.7                 145           46,314        687            1,240                   23.5
1975        1,548         1,155            74.6           78.08        62.18             20=4                 147           47,195        881            1,318                   24.5
1976        1,634         1,227            75.1           83.20        63.77             23.4                 142           48,075        880            1,326                   25.5
1977        1,723         1,303            75.6           87.36        67.27             23.0                 141           48,697        622            1,381                  26.7
1978         1,793         1,364           76.1           90.58        69.75             23.0                 140           49,283        586            1,415                   27.7
1979         1,867         1,430           76.6           94.04        72.41             23.0                 139           49,896        613            1,451                   28.7
1980         1,943        1,498            77.1           97.57        75.13             23.0                 137           50,506        610           1,488                    29.7
1981         2,022        1,569            77.6           99.91        77.93             22.0                 136           51,122        616            1,524                   30.7
1982        2,104         1,641            78.0          103.53        80.75             22.0                 135           51,725        603           1,561                   31.7
1983        2,190         1,719            78.5          106.05        83.78             21.0                 134           52,357        632           1,600                   32.8
1984        2,280         1,801            79.0          110.04        86.93             21.0                 132           52,999        642            1,640                   34.0
1985        2,373         1,887            79.5          112.76        90.21             20.0                 131           53,650        651            1,681                   35.2
1986        2,470         1,976            80.0          116.95        93.56             20.0                 130           54,300        650            1,723                   36.4
Column (2) gives the total population in Greater Algiers.
Column (3) shows Greater Algiers' population directly connected to the water distribution
network. Projection of future population connected is based on the probable
number of service lines that can be executed each year.
Column (7) gives the percentage of water produced but not accounted for.
Column (8) shows the per capita average volume of water (liters/day) consumed in the
successive years considered.
Column (9) indicates the service lines or the number of dwellings connected to the water
distribution network in the years shown.
Column(10) gives the number of additional service lines executed in a year.                                                                                                             0 O
Column(ll) gives the average volume of water consumed at a service line.                                                                                                                  X
Column(12) shows the average number of people served by a service line.                                                                                                                 0
1/ Refer to mid-year populations and service lines.
July 7, 1977



- 31 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
18.       A division of the Constantine Municipality operates this city's water
supply system; another division provides sewerage services. Water supply in
Constantine is severely rationed and services are provided only a few hours a
day in most areas of the city. About 70% of the population is directly con-
nected to the water network, but the average per capita consumption is low,
about 40 liters/day. The distribution pipes are in bad condition and half of
the service meters are broken. As in Algiers, the water division is in charge
of both production and distribution. Separate accounts for water supply are
not kept in the APC's books.
19.       Both Oran and Constantine are equipped with combined sewer systems.
The entire population of Oran receives sewerage services; 90% of the population
in Constantine is connected to the sewer network. All wastewaters generated in
Oran and Constantine are discharged without treatment into the Mediterranean
Sea or receiving waters. These cities' sewer systems are in bad condition
and need urgent repairs. No sewerage tariff is presently levied in Oran and
Constantine.
November 4, 1977



- 32 -
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                                         ANNEX 2
Water Consumption and Service Lines in Algiers,
Past and Forecast
Service Lines 103, X
5          6         7        8       9     103                                           2                         3                 4              5           6         7
102 -
8                                 Water Sales Y vs Population Connected X_______
Ys = 54.68 u
r2 =0.992
7                                                                                                                                                         _ _    _7
Service Lines Y vs Population Connected X    /        °
Y = 45.4 Xv
vD°S   4 ~ /                                                                                                                                                                           g~--  ~-~ r2  = 0.994  v
Water Sales Y vs Service Lines X  _/
Correlation Coefficient r    0.993
20                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
>~~ Ave. Per Capita |>
Consumption Y vs                                             Ave. Consumption Per Service
Population Con_ected X                                       Line Y vs Population Connected X
59            6                                1323                                                                                
On lat                                                                                                                                                                                v
I                                                                                                                   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
5          6         7        8      9      10'                                          2                          3                 4              5          6         7
Legend                                                              Population Connected j03, X
O Historical Data
World Bonk - 17702



- 33 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FEASIBILITY STUDIES OF
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE FOR ORAN AND CONSTANTINE
Introduction
1.        Engineering studies of feasible ways to improve and expand water
supply and sewerage in the metropolitan areas of Oran and Constantine are
required. Though the studies are essentially directed towards the use of
water resources for domestic, commercial and industrial consumption, consid-
eration should also be given to other uses such as irrigation, power genera-
tion, recreation, etc. The studies should indicate how the problems of water
supply and sewerage in these metropolitan areas can be resolved in a rational
and economic manner in the next 25 years.
2.        A feasibility study of water supply for Oran has already been pre-
pared.  This study will be first reviewed and if found satisfactory, engineer-
ing design of the proposed water supply facilities will then be undertaken
immediately.
Objectives of the Studies
3.        The basic objectives of these studies are:
(i) evaluation of the water resources in the areas considered and
coordination and optimization of the use of these resources;
(ii) coordination and consultation with all relevant agencies with
interest in the uses of the areas' water resources; and
(iii)  formulation of technically, financially and economically fea-
sible staged programs for the improvement and expansion of
water supply and sewerage in these metropolitan areas.
Scope of the Studies
4.        The principal activities of the studies can be summarized as to:
(a) review and evaluate all prior studies and reports relating
to water supply and sewerage in the areas;
(b)  conduct field studies and collect all necessary data like
existing populations, population growth and distribution,
population density and saturation, average water consump-
tion, existing water storage, extent of unaccounted for
water, volume of water returned to sewers, industrial
wastewater flow, wastewater strength, etc.;



34-                          ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
(c) select and evaluate possible water sources; determine their
probable yields with or without full development of storage
and the economic and other effects of interbasin transfer
of water;
(d) develop technical, economic and financial criteria for the
optimum staged development of the water resources for urban
supply;
(e) formulate staged programs of the water sources' development
for urban supply in the areas and of construction of major
works over a period of 25 years; and
(f) evaluate feasible sewer systems and sewage treatment methods
for the areas under study.
Hydrology and Water Sources
5.        Hydrological characteristics of the catchment basins, their sizes,
topography, geology, rainfall and runoff should be studied, and available
yields estimated, taking into account the effects of possible storage. Mathe-
matical models such as for the generation of short and long-trace stochastic
stream flow and rainfall, and computerized techniques should be used where
appropriate. Groundwater resources should also be evaluated and supported
by any necessary field tests. The feasibility and cost of developing the
various available water sources and the effects of such development on
downstream low flows, on the ecology and environment should be assessed.
Population and Land Occupancy
6.        The studies should consider the most probable patternas of popula-
tion densities and land use in the areas and throughout the planning period.
They should include the review and evaluation of previous demographic and
land use studies, zoning and practices, discussions with relevant planning
agencies, and study of patterns of industrial and urban development. Detailed
outlines of water consumption and demands in the sectors of the metropolitan
areas should be established.
Water and Sewerage Facilities
7.        The conditions of the existing water supply and sewer systems in the
areas should be appraised, together with the supply sources, their capacities
and available surplus capacities and yields. Water demand for domestic, com-
mercial, industrial and other purposes should be projected for the planning
period. The studies should provide for each of the alternatives considered
the most economical means to transport treated water to central distribution
centers, including the cost of necessary collection works, treatment facilities,
pumping stations, transmission pipelines and reservoirs, the collection and
disposal of sewage, and wastewater treatment requirements.



- 35 -                          ANNEX 3
Page ' of 4
Other Water Uses
8.        Consideration should also be given to the costs and benefits of the
use of water for irrigation, power generation, recreation, navigation, waste-
water dilution or other uses which may be complementary to or competitive with
its use for urban supply, and the environmental effects of such water uses.
Work Items
9.        The following is a suggested list of work items which should be
developed in detail in the reports.
(i)  existing and proposed water supply and sewerage facilities
(plans and reports on water supply and sewerage in Oran and
Constantine);
(ii)  demography;
(iii)  land use and urban planning;
(iv)  economic and financial conditions;
(v)  urban and industrial development;
(vi)  urban water use (domestic, commercial, industrial and others;
water consumption, sewage flows;
(vii)  existing water resources in the areas;
(viii)  complementary and/or competitive water uses with urban supply;
(ix)  climate and hydrology;
(x)  geology and soil borings;
(xi)  hydrogeology and groundwater;
(xii)  water quality and wastewater composition.
Data Evaluation and Recommended Works
10.       Based on the collected data and reports and field studies, planning
criteria will be developed for such matters as:
(a) population growth and distribution;
(b) water demand forecasts;
(c)  future wastewater flows and sewage treatment requirements;



- 36 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
(d) economic evaluation of other water uses;
(e) alternatives to be considered for meeting the expected
future water demand and disposing of the projected waste-
water volumes, and the bases for comparing these alterna-
tives.
Selection of Proposed Projects
11.       The economic evaluation of technically feasible alternatives should
be based on the least costs for the expected benefits. Discount rates between
4% and 14% and a life expectancy of 40 years for major assets will be used to
make the economic comparison of alternatives.  The financial feasibility of
the proposed works should also be evaluated. Alternative methods of revenue
generation and of financing the recommended works should be investigated, as
well as available sources of local and international capital. Complete finan-
cial projections should be submitted for the projects. A program of construc-
tion of major water supply and sewerage facilities in each of the areas, to
cover the planning period, will be submitted. The economic and financial
feasibility of the recommended programs will be demonstrated.
November 10, 1977



- 37 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED WORKS
Project Concept
1.        The proposed project is based on an urban development plan (includ-
ing zoning and land occupancy through the year 2000) prepared by COMEDOR for
Greater Algiers. The objective of the COMEDOR Plan is to relieve population
congestion in the old part of the city (west of El Harrach River) by develop-
ing the eastern part (see Map 13057) and limiting the population growth in
Greater Algiers. COMEDOR is proposing to reduce the population annual
growth from the present 5.8% to about 3%. This would result in a population
of 3.5 million in the year 2000.
2.        There is presently a housing shortage in Algiers, and consequently
some 15 persons on average live in each dwelling unit. The Government objec-
tive is to build about 120,000 dwellings between now and 1980 and to increase
the present number of 250,000 housing units to more than 700,000 by the year
2000. Based on the projected population of 3.5 million in that year, this
would result in an acceptable average of 5 persons per dwelling unit.
3.        As mentioned earlier, water supply is to some extent now rationed
in Greater Algiers. In addition, water demand for all purposes has already
exceeded the available resources in the basin. To satisfy the water demand
of growing population and expanded agriculture in the Mitidja Plain, water
would need to be transferred at high costs from adjacent basins, unless El
Harrach River waters or other new sources such as treated sewage can be used
for urban supply and irrigation. For this reason the proposed project fea-
tures the construction of a sewage plant to treat most of the wastewaters for
their reuse in irrigation or groundwater recharge.
4.        There are two possible sites that could be selected for the proposed
treatment plant. It can be located in the lower reach of El Harrach River near
the coast, and in that case the wastewaters would flow by gravity to the plant.
However, the plant effluent would have to be pumped to the Mitidja Plain where
it would be used. The other alternative would be to locate the plant in the
upper reach of El Harrach River in the Mitidja Plain, thus eliminating the
requirement of pumping the plant effluent. But conversely, the wastewaters
would have to be pumped to the plant. Also, the sewage interceptors would
need to be installed somewhat deeper below the ground level.
5.        An economic comparison of the two sites shows that for discount
rates lower than 14%, both alternatives would have about the same costs. In
comparing the two sites, it is assumed that the value of the land in the first



-38 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
alternative (urban area) is 10 times higher than that of the second alterna-
tive (agricultural area). This assumption stems from the possible land rent
of the two sites, which for the urban location would produce a much higher
return. Locating the treatment plant in the Mitidja Plain would have less
impact on the environment (specially in case of malfunction of, the plant), and
of fers the possibility of using the plant effluent to supply water to indus-
tries situated downstream of the plant or to upgrade the quality of El Harrach
River waters. For these reasons the upstream site has been retained for the
treatment plant.
6.        Forecasts of populations and equivalent populations, sewage flows,
and pollution loads in El Harrach River basin are shown in Table 4-1. The
evolution of these parameters is illustrated in Annex 5. Assuming a tolerable
DO deficit of 5 mg/l in the river, a BOD loading of about 15 mg/l or 1.3 tons/
day can be allowed in the river. With the first stage BOD of the wastewaters
estimated to average 40 gcd, it would be possible to discharge into El Harrach
River waste matters generated by about 32,500 persons or an equivalent popula-
tion without creating objectionable conditions. Any additional load should be
treated prior to their discharge into El Harrach River.
7.        COMEDOR has projected that in 1985 the population in El Harrach
River basin would reach 1.9 million. In that year the average dry-weather
wastewater flow including domestic sewage, industrial liquid wastes and seep-
age water would average 6.3 m3/s with a total pollution load (BOD5) of about
102 tons/day. About 41% of this load would be removed in the sewage treatment
plant during the first stage of the Program. Only wastewaters flowing into the
bay areas adjacent to El Harrach River would be treated during the first stage.
The interception of sewage discharge around the Algiers Port will start with
the second stage. The treatment plant's sludge will be conditioned and dried
for its use in agriculture.
The Proposed Interceptors
8.        The proposed sewage interception system for Greater Algiers would
basically include an interceptor of about 32 km along the west coast of Algiers
Bay and the left bank of El Harrach River.  This interceptor would be made up
of three sections: the first one between Pointe Pescade and Pointe El Kettani
designated as Pointe Pescade Collector; the second one between Pointe Pescade
and the outlet of Oued Ouchaia, designated as Algiers Collector; and finally
the third one along the left bank of Oued El Harrach, designated as the Left
Bank Interceptor.  The latter would convey wastewaters from most of the pres-
ently urbanized parts of the city; its receiving basin has an area of about
10,000 ha, and an equivalent population of 1,750,000 is projected there in
the year 2000. Another interceptor along the right bank of El Harrach River
will collect wastewaters in this side of the river and convey them to the
Left Bank Interceptor.  Part of the Right Bank Interceptor has already been
built and presently serves an area of about 330 ha with 80,000 inhabitants.
It will be extended by about 700 meters and connected to the Left Bank Inter-
ceptor.



39 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
Table 4-1: Wastewater Flow and Pollution Load in Project Area
Year
Line    Element                                     1973    1980    1985    1990    2000
1     River Basin Area, ha.                      15,670  15,670  15,670  15,670  15,670
2     Residential Areas in Basin, ha.             7,895   9,868  11,560  11,654  11,748
3     Industrial Areas in Basin, ha.                920   1,340   1,750   2,290   3,922
4     Population in G. Algiers, 1000              1,391   1,943   2,373   2,701   3,500
5     Population in Basin, 1000                   1,320   1,647   1,930   1,942   1,966
6     Population Density in Basin                    84     105      123     124      125
7     Specific Sewage Flow, 1/s/ha.               0.194   0.232   0.290   0.347   0.387
8     Domestic Sewage Flow, I/s                   1,528   2,288   3,351   4,046   4,550
9     Seepage Rate, 1/s/ha.                       0.071   0.071   0.071   0.071   0.071
10     Seepage Flow, l/s                             742      928   1,087   1,096   1,105
1      Industrial Wastewater, l/s                    300      432     565      740   1,264
12     Total Ave. Wastewater Flow, 1/s         3   2,570   3,648   5,003   5,882   6,919
13     Peak Wastewater Flow (Dry Weather), m /s  3.17    4.55    6.30    7.46    8.84
14     Peak Wastewater and Storm Water Runoff
at Plant, m3/s                            6.34    9.10   12.60   14.92   17.68
15     Equivalent Population, 1000                   156      245     337      477   1,021
16     Total Equivalent Population, 1000           1,476   1,892   2,267   2,419   2,987
17     Specific Pollution Load, BOD5 g/c/day          35       42      45       50      55
18     Specific Pollution Load, BOD5 ppm             350      350     300      278     275
19     Total Pollution Load, BOD5 Tons/day          51.7    79.5   102.0   121.0   164,3
20     Portion of Load Removed, BOD5 Tons/day         -        -     41.2    82.5   164.3
21     Discharged Without Treatment, BOD5 Tons/d 51.7    79.5    60.8    38.5           -
Notes
- Line 4 shows expected total populations in Greater Algiers, while line 5
gives the projected populations in El Harrach River Basin.
- Line 6 is obtained by dividing line 5 between line 1, and gives the average
number of people per Hectare in El Harrach River Basin.
- Line 8 is the product of line 7 into line 2.
- Line 12 is the sum of lines 8, 10 and 11.
- Line 15 gives the equivalent population that would contribute similar
industrial pollution.
- Line 16 is the sum of lines 5 and 15.
- Line 19 is the product of line 16 into line 17.
- Line 20 gives the pollution load removed at the treatment plant.



- 40 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
9.        The interceptors are calculated to drain the combined volumes of
the average wastewater flow, seepage and the expected 2-year storm rainfall.
Any flows in excess of these volumes would be carried away through overfalls.
Seepage waters are estimated to be 0.10 i/s/ha in low and flat areas, and
0.05 i/s/ha in high and hilly ground. The interceptors would have an aver-
age slope of 1:1,000 and would be equipped with inspection manholes every
120 meters or so, and at changes in horizontal and vertical directions.
Pumping Stations
10.       The Left Bank Interceptor will be provided with two pumping stations
to lift the wastewater flows to the treatment plant.  These stations will be
equipped with screw pumps. The first station would have a maximum capacity
of 8.5 m3/sec which would be delivered by four units of 2.125 m3/sec. In
addition, two other units of 1.08 m3/sec would be used to pump excess flows
into a storm retention basin. The second station would be located at the
outlet of Oued Smar Collector and would have a maximum capacity of 12.56 m3/
sec. Four units of 3.14 m3/sec would be installed to pump normal flows, and
two more units of 1.40 m3/sec to pump excess storm volumes to another reten-
tion basin. The installed power would be 1,012 KW in the first station and
988 KW in the second one.
Storm Retention Basins
11.       These basins would be used to retain runoff volumes exceeding the
capacity of the interceptors. The first basin would receive excess flows
coming from Oued Ouchaia and the Left Bank Interceptor.  The retention time
in this basin would average 20 minutes for a volume of about 9,665 m3. A
second one would also be used for the Left Bank Interceptor and would have
a volume of 3,360 m3 for a similar retention time.
Protective Embankments
12.       Two embankments will be built along the right bank of El Harrach
River to protect the existing water treatment plant and the proposed sewage
treatment plant against the expected 50-year storm runoff of 1,780 m3/s in
the river. For such flow the water level in the river would reach the ele-
vation of 13.45 meters. The embankments would be about 700 meters long and
would follow the existing profile of the right bank.
The Sewage Treatment Plant
13.       The proposed activated-sludge plant would have a final capacity
adequate to treat liquid wastes of an equivalent population of 3 million in
the year 2000.  It would be built in four identical stages, each with a spe-
cific capacity for 750,000 inhabitants equivalent. The plant's maximum
influent would be 17.7 m3/s in wet seasons; an average flow of 8.8 m3/s is
forecast during dry weather. The first stage would have an average capacity
of 2.2 m3/s.



- 41 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
14.       The essential units of the plant's first stage would be:  (i) a
low-lift pumping station with a static head of 12.5 meters; (ii) mechanical
screens made up of two successive steps of 60 mm and 20 mm; (iii) one cir-
cular primary sedimentation basin to retain settling solids of more than 0.15
mm in diameter; (iv) two cyclone degritters to separate inorganic matters with
a diameter larger than 0.5 mm; (v) two aeration tanks each with a volume of
20,000 m3; (vi) two flocculation basins; (vii) two final settling tanks; (viii)
sludge return system; and (ix) two chlorination basins with a retention time
of about 20 minutes.
15.       Primary sludge and excess of secondary sludge would be pumped to
four thickeners in which a solution (20%) of ferric chloride and lime would be
added to coalesce suspended particles. The sludge would then be dewatered in
2 filter presses to about 50% moisture and finally dried in flash-drying type
machines. The sludge conditioning equipment would be installed in a building
which would also house the instrumentation system. Other alternative sludge
treatment processes such as anaerobic digestion would also be accepted and
evaluated during bidding of the plant. The following parameters would be
continuously and automatically metered: flows, temperatures of the waste-
waters, settling matters, pH, conductivity, BOD, COD, air volume to each
aeration tank, volume and quality of the sludge, concentration of dry
materials and turbidity in the final settling tanks. The total installed
power in the plant in the year 2000 would be 14,000 KW.
Cost Estimates
16.       The estimated cost of the project is DA 624.4 million with a foreign
exchange component of DA 332.1 million equivalent or 53.2% of the total expend-
itures. Detailed cost estimates and annual project investments are shown in
Annexes 6 and 7. 0f the total cost, DA 185.0 million or about 30% of the proj-
ect costs is to cover price increases during the project execution. Table 7-2
gives the annual inflation rates and the escalation factors that are used to
estimate these increases. The projected inflation rates for equipment supply
are in accordance with current Bank guidelines; those for civil works construc-
tion follow the trend of price escalation in Algeria, which has steadily
decreased in the past 5 years.
Table 7-2: Price Escalation Factors
Equipment               Civil Works               Combined-l
Year              %         Factor         %         Factor         %        Factor
1977             7.5          -         15.5            -         11.6         -
1978             7.5         1.096      12.0          1.174        9.8       1.136
1979             7.5         1.157      10.0          1.267        8.8        1.212
1980             7.0        1.241        9.0          1.387        8.0       1.314
1981             7.0         1.328       9.0          1.512        8.0       1.420
1982             7.0        1.421        9.0          1.648        8.0       1.535
/1   Assuming that overall local expenditures would amount to 46.8% of the
total costs and foreign expenditures to 53.2%.



- 42 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
17.       Table 7-3 gives the planned annual investments for the types of ex-
penditures projected for the project. These investments are in current prices
and already include all contingencies. Most of the proposed investments would
be in civil works construction which would account for about 77% of the total
expenditures. Foreign expenditures which would amount to only 9% of the total
costs, would basically cover the purchase of equipment for the treatment plant
and pumping stations. About 30% of the expenditures for civil works construc-
tion would be for local purchasing of imported materials such as cement, steel,
lumber, etc.; an additional 20% would be for imported construction equipment
and net profit of foreign contractors who are expected to win most of the
contracts.
Table 7-3: Summary of Annual Project Investments
(DA Thousands)
Year
Type of Expenditures    1978       1979      1980      1981     1982    Total   %
Foreign Purchases          965    1,962    30,610   10,493   14,294  58,324   9.4
Local Purchases            632      891      8,355    4,257    5,135  19,270   3.1
Civil Works            18,092   48,714   129,706  157,048  128,612 482,172  77.2
Foreign Consulting
Services              5,078   10,371    12,582    2,628    2,031  32,690   5.2
Local Consuilting
Expenses              4,894   10,282    11,877    2,222    2,823  32,098   5.1
Total Expenditures    29,661   72,220   193,130  176,648  152,895 624,554 100.0
Total in %                4.7      11.6       30.9      28.3     24.5   100.0
Accumulated %              4.7     16.3       47.2      75.5    100.0
18.       Proposed allocation of the Bank loan is shown in Table 7-4.  Foreign
expenditures for equipment supply and consulting services would be financed
100% by the loan proceeds. In addition, 50% of the civil works construction
costs would be financed under the proposed Bank loan.  Overall, 53.2% of the
project cost would be financed by the Bank.



43-                          ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 8
Table 7-4: Allocation of the Loan Proceeds
(DA Thousands)
Year                                 /1
Type of Expenditures    1978       1979      1980     1981      1982    Total   %
Foreign Purchases         965    1,962    30,610   10,493   14,294  58,324 100.0
Civil Works             9,046   24,357    64,853   78,524   64,306 241,086  50.0
Foreign Consulting
Services              5,078   10,371    12,582    2,628    2,031  32,690 100.0
Total Proceeds         15,089   36,690        05 980631 332,i100  53.2
Total in US$            3,726    9,059    26,678   22,628   19,909  82,000  53.2
/1   Represent the percentages of the total expenditures financed by the Bank
loan.
Project Execution
19.       Except for the Algiers North Interceptor, detailed engineering design
and preparation of tender documents for all the other works are completed.
Bidding would start in early 1978 and construction should be under way by
July 1978. A feasibility study of the Algiers North Interceptor has been
completed and the final design should be ready by the end of March 1979. Con-
struction of this interceptor would start in the beginning of 1980. Govern-
ment has already reserved all the land needed for the project. Construc-
tion of all the project elements should be completed by the end of 1982.
Start-up of the treatment plant and pumping stations would take place in
early 1983, and industrial operation should begin by July 1983.
20.       Engineering consultants would assist DWH's staff in supervising
the project execution, which would be carried out through 8 contracts as
follows:
Contract No. 1:  for constructing the El Harrach River Left Bank
Interceptor;
Contract No. 2:  construction of the Right Bank Interceptor,
collectors and Oued Smar Syphon;
Contract No. 3:  construction of Algiers North Interceptor;
Contract No. 4:  supply of operational equipment, and supply
and installation of pumps, motor drives and
motor control centers, and electric systems;



- 44 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 8
Contract No. 5:  civil works construction of the pumping
stations;
Contract No. 6:  turnkey construction and 3-year operation of
the sewage treatment plant;
Contract No. 7:  construction of protective embankments for
the existing water plant and the proposed
sewage treatment plant; and
Contract No. 8:  construction of SEDAL's headquarters.
21.       Bidding of the sewage treatment plant would be carried out in two
phases. In the first one, bidders would be asked to quote the equipment
supply for the proposed plant layout or for alternative designs that would
have been accepted by DWH, together with precise quantities of civil works.
In the second phase, after the equipment supplier is selected, bidding of the
plant civil works confstruction would be carried out. Procurement is expected
to be completed by the end of 1979.
Tanuary 25, 1978



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
Forecast of Pollution Load in El Harrach River Basin
4x10 6                                                                                                                       4x1 06
c                                                                                                                                      c0
Population in Greater Algiers.
- 3x106                                                                                                                         3x¶06  °
/   |          I        ~~~~~Popul tion in El Harrach Basin
w                                                                                                                                6
2x06                                                                                                                         2x1o6
Average Wa stewater Flow       / 
in El Harrach Basin  
200                              y             t                                                                          5
l      |    /        |              | ~~~~~~~~Pollution L< Id  ~
150                                                                                                                        4 2
O                                                                                 Pollution Load Removed at Plant
50                                                                                                                        2
Treatment |                                                       |
Plant's First Stage -                     I                       |
1970          1975           1980          1985           1990           1995          2000           2005          2010
July 1977                                              Years
World Bank -17701



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
(DA Thousands)
Type of Procurement                     Type of Expenditures
Line      Item                                                   Equipment      Civil Works    Total         Local       Foreign    Total
1       El Harrach Left Bank Interceptor
(a) Lower Section                                    -               74,763       74,763       37,381       37,382    74,763
(b) Central Section                                   -              34,615       34,615       17,307       17,308    34,615
(c) Upper Section                                     -              13,823       13,823        6,911        6,912    13,823
2       El Harrach Right Bank Interceptor
(a) Extension of Collector                            -               7,932        7,932        3,966         3,966     7,932
(b) Littoral Syphon                                    146            2,016        2,162        1,008        1,154      2,162
3       Algiers North Interceptor                                 -              57,773       57,773       28,886       28,887    57,773
4       Sewer Collectors                                          -              11,501       11,501        5,750         5,751    11,501
5       Oued Smar Syphon                                           122            2,042        2,164        1,021         1,143      2,164
6       Sewage Pumping Stations                                  2,624            6,478        9,102        3,239         5,863      9,102
7       Embankment for Water Plant                                -               4,891        4,891        3,424         1,467     4,891
8       Embankment for Sewage Plant                               -               9,122        9,122        6,385         2,737      9,122
9       Sewage Treatment Plant                                  32,298           74,088      106,386       37,044       69,342   106,386
10       SEDAL's Readquarters Office                               -               5,620        5,620         2,810        2,810      5,620
il       Supply of Operational Equipment                          3,475            -            3,475        -             3,475      3,475
12       Training Program                                         2,136            -            2,136           646        1,490      2,136
13       Management Assistance Program                            2,839            -            2,839           895        1,944      2,839
14       Feasibility and Engineering Studies                     30,283            -           30,283       14,263        16,020    30,283
15          SUB-TOTAL                                            73,923          304,664      378,587      170,936      207,651   378,587
16       Physical Contingencies                                   7,392           30,467       37,859       17,094        20,765    37,859
17       Customs Duties                                           9,666            -            9,666         9,666        -          9,666
18       Design and Construction Supervision                      5,914            7,520       13,434         5,128        8,306    13,434
19          TOTAL COST AT MID 1977 PRICES                        96,895          342,651      439,546      202,824      236,722   439,546
20       Price Escalation -/                                     17,205          167,803      185,008       89,630        95,378   185,008
21          TOTAL COST IN CURRENT PRICES                                         510,454      624,554      292,454       332,100   624, 554
22          TOTAL COST IN US$                                    28,173          126,038      154,211       72,211        82,000   154,211
23          TOTAL COST IN %                                        18.3             81.7        100.0          46.8         53.2      100.0
1/ Includes increase in customs duties on imported equipment
2/ Based on a constant rate of exahange of US$l - DA 4.05
July 1, 1977



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
ANNUAL PROJECT INVESTMENTS
(DA Thousands)
1978                  1979                 1980                    1981                    1982                    Total
Line      Item                                     Local    Foreign      Local   Foreign      Local       Foreign      Local     Foreign      Local        Foreign     Local      Forein
1       El Harrach Left Bank Interceptor        7,392       7,392      15,400    15,400     15,399      15,401       12,320     12,320     11,088         11,089     61,599      61,602
2       El Harrach Right Bank Interceptor         -          -          -         -          2,238        2,304       2,736      2,816      -              -          4,974        5,120
3       Algiers North Interceptor                 -          -          -         -          7,222        8,666      11,554     10,977      10,110         9,244     28,886       28,887
4       Sewer Collectors                          -          -          -         -          -            -           2,300      2,588      3,450          3,163      5,750        5,751
5       Oued Smar Syphon                          -          -          -         -          -            -             459        571        562            572      1,021        1,143
6       Sewage Pumping Stations                  -           -          -         -            648        2,345       1,296      1,759      1,295          1,759      3,239       5,863
7       Embankment for Water Plant                -          -          1,541       660      1,883          807       -          -           -             -          3,424        1,467
8       Embankment for Sewage Plant               -          -          -         -          2,873        1,232       3,512      1,505       -             -          6,385        2,737
9       Sewage Treatment Plant                    -          -          -         -         11,854       29,817      14,818     20,803     10,372         18,722     37,044       69,342
10       SEDAL's deadquarters Office               -          -          1,264     1,405      1,546        1,405       -          -           -             -          2,810        2,810
il       Supply of Operational Equipment          -             559      -         1,216      -            1,700       -          -          _              _          -            3,475
12      Training Pmgram                             129         298        161       447        162         447          194        298      -              -            646        1,490
13      Management Assistance Program               600       1,302        295       642      -            -           -          -           -             -            895        1,944
14      Feasibility and Engineering Studies       2.139       2.403      5,705     6.408      6,419       7,209        -          -           -            _          14,263       16.020
15          SUB-TOTAL                             10,260     11,954     24,366    26,178     50,244       71,333      49,189     53,637      36,877        44,549    170,936      207,651
16       Physical Contingencies                   1,027       1,195      2,434     2,618      5,025        7,133       4,920      5,364       3,688         4,455     17,094       20,765
17       Design and Construction Supervision        308         478        731     1.047      1.507        2.853       1,476      2,146       1.106         1.782      5.128        8.306
18      TOTAL COST AT MID 1977 PRICES            11,595      13,627     27,531    29,843     56,776       81,319      55,585     61,147     41,671         50,786    193,158      236,722
19       Price Escalation                         2,017       1,965      7,351     6,876     21,972       26,641      28,460     29,270      27,003        30,626     86,803       95,378
20       Customs Duties                              153      -            352     -                       -                      -22,226     3 135         -         12.493        -
21       TOTAL COST IN CURRENT PRICES            13,765      15.592     35. 234    36.719    85.375           0       86.271                 71,809 8.41             292.454      332.100
22       TOTAL COST IN US$                         3 ,399     385O       8.700     9,066     21.080       26.65       21.30      22          17,73120.0l2             72.1         82, 00ç0
1/ Excluding customs duties which are calculated on the basis of a fixed percentage
of the current cost of imported equipment in the years considered.
2/ Based on a constant exchange rate of US$1 = DA 4.05.
July 1, 1977



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Bank Loan -                               Government Funds 2/
Disbursement    Cumulative  3 %  of  4         Disbursement       Cumulative   3   % of
Bank FY and Quarter             in Quarter       Disbursement-   Total -       in Quarter         Disbursement -/  Total -
1979
lst Quarter                     340               340           0.4          2,372               2,372            3.3
2nd Quarter                  2,422              2,762           3.4          1,226               3,598            5.0
3rd Quarter                     964             3,726           4.5          2,219               5,817            8.1
4th Quarter                   2,247             5,973           7.3          2,256               8,073           11.2
1980
lst Quarter                  2,346              8,319          10.1          1,835               9,908           13.7
2nd Quarter                  1,846            10.165           12.4          1,944              11,852           16.4
3rd Quarter                  1,925            12,090           14.7          3,658              15,510           21.5
4th Quarter                  5,448             17,538          21.4          5,481              20,991           29.1
1981
lst Quarter                  7,272             24,810          30.3          4,569              25,560           35.4
2nd Quarter                  6,360             31,170          38.0          6,063              31,623           43.8      1
3rd Quarter                  6,362            37,532          45.8           4,667              36,290           50.3    r
4th Quarter                  5,172             42,704          52.1          5,408              41,698            57.7
1982
lst Quarter                  5,913            48,617           59.3          4,668              46,366            64.2
2nd Quarter                  5,172             53,789          65.6          4,309              50,675            70.2
3rd Quarter                  4,432             58,221          71.0          3,870              54,545            75.5
4th Quarter                  4,131             62,352          76.0          4,858              59,403            82.3
1983
lst Quarter                  4,378             66,730          81.4          3,994              63,397            87.8
2nd Quarter                  4,871             71,601          87.3          3,534              66,931            92.7
3rd Quarter                  5,119             76,720          93.6          5,280              72,211          100.0
4th Quarter                  5,280             82,000         100.0            -
1/ Would finance 53.2% of the total project costs.
2/ Would finance 46.8% of the total project costs.                                                                          j>
3/ The figures shown reDresent estimated accumulated disbursements at the end
of the consecutive quarters.
41 Represent the estimated percentages of the Bank loan or Government funds                                                  C
disbursed at the end of the quarters.
July 1, 1977



ALGERIA
ALG I ERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
PERT NETWORK FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Calend.r           1978                            1979                            1980                            1981                            1982                    1983
Months J F M|A |M| J JS   O 0|N   O D J | F |M| A|M | J | J |A | S                                                                      F M A M  J J AS NFA S   FN D J  F M |   A   AI S.  N D J F MA  J
CONSTRUCTION OF LFFT BANK INTERCEPTOR
g ,j,l E1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 M .  
U I /(l £4; e ,  | PLAtr I N 1. XcJ . WOR           X               'IFT'JCTIN OX !TER          tO.tPArro ÇPTICI'S  1 S|S 
t;z sRLN   QIMN               I         D       NC                R1TETETPAT EVALTUATION IOF                                                               IJ1L           TATU    
i\l,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
O~~~~~
0~ ~~ EET( IY                     VN          IERQIE  NMNH EXCTJON CARR OTRACININGPORMYGA
I-                                                                        Mth~~~~~~0Mh
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q CRTIADPT
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PLACK
PLANT FINAL     CIVILWORKS
u  EQUIPMÊNT BIDDING  DÉSIGN  BIODIN                       TREATMÊNT PLANT         R                                               A T-UP~~~~~~~~~~~~
IN  1OMth~  8 Mth  6 Mth~                                                      h~                        o          z
OF EM.'l'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Z                                                                                                       EVALUATION 0F                               -ACNSRUTIN FSEALS EAOURTR
~~. 20                                   -. -. -. -.                                              23                                                  zoF   4 11
z    AAI  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~z,
0F BM                                                                                                                                           1-RT BAN
o   th~~~~'Q            S MtAAA  - -    FLAp~~th  t                                                                                                                       O
ALGIERS INTERCÉPTO               CONSTRUCTION OFALGIERS NORTH INECPO
S=3          3                        36Mh-                                                 --
L-EGEND:                                                                                                                                                           W-rîd BerAk-18226
EVENT     ACTIVTy     EVN       = TIME REOUIR.O N. MONTHS TO CARRY- OUT ACTI VTI
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___     CRITICAL   FATH
S. SLACK
Nov-ber 1977



- 50 -                         ANNEX 10
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SEDAL'S STATUTE
1.        SEDAL's statute was issued by decree of the Wali of Algiers on
October 18, 1977 pursuant to Presidential Order No. 77-13 of April 19, 1977.
The main provisions are summarized below.
Objective
2.        SEDAL is charged with responsibility within Greater Algiers for:
(i) the provision of industrial and potable water;
(ii) the collection, treatment and reuse of wastewater.
In discharging this responsibility its duties include the design, construc-
tion and operation within its territory of all facilities for water production
(except dams), transmission, treatment and distribution, and for wastewater
collection and treatment. The transfer of water supply and sewerage facili-
ties situated within Greater Algiers but outside the Wilaya of Algiers would
require separate agreements with the communes concerned.
Constitution
3.        SEDAL is a socialist enterprise with its headquarters in Algiers.
It has legal personality and is financially autonomous; it may contract loans
from national or international organizations and is eligible to receive state
subsidies. Its parent authority is the Wali of Algiers.
Management
4.        In conformity with the rules of organization and management of
socialist enterprises, the organs of management are the workers' assembly,
the council of management, the Director General, and the permanent commis-
sions. Its accounts are to be kept in commercial form and according to the
National Chart of Accounts, and are to be submitted annually to the Wali.
November 11, 1977



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SOCIETE DES EAUX DE L'AGGLOMERATION D'ALGER - SEDAL
INTERIM ORGANIZATION CHART -1977
|WALI OF ALGIERS 
PROGRAMMING &                                           TRAINING UNIT
BU DGETING
LEGAL COUNCIL                                           ADVISORY UNITl
|  PROJECTS                                               FIN*NC[ ADIITAIN                                                                                                OPERTIONS
COMRIAL                                          TERSONTEL
CONSTRUCTION  FINANCU              COMMERCIAL                 ~~~~~~PERSONNEL               GENERAL                   PRDCION &                 PETER DISTRIBUTION
DESIDN                  CONSTRUCTION                   FINANCE                   COMMERCIAL                  DIVISION VSERVICES                                        A NT                    EWAE COLLECTION
q   STUDIES  l      l   PROCUREMENT                   ACCOUNTING                  CILLING/                   SECRETARIAT                 INVNTRTE WELLS                                             NT
COLLECTION                                               AEOUETRPLLNRT
H GATER WDRKS                TREASURY                                                                                    METERIN           SEWAGE PLANTS                 CENTRAL
SURVEY                                                                                     DIVISION ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EERN.LBRARY
DRAPTINGIEW  AEW.AA RCESIGTARIIFES;                                                                                                                            SEUTR
I STRAPTITIC|S|  SEWERADE WORKS                     DATA 1ROC NO STATISTICS                                                                                          MAINTENANCE                     SOUT1
|  WEST          1 0



- 52 -                        ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 6
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT,
TARIFF AND FINANCIAL STUDIES
Introduction
1.        The Government of Algeria has recently established a socialist
enterprise of Wilaya to be responsible for the provision of drinking water
and the collection and treatment of wastewater within the territory of Greater
Algiers: the "Societe des Eaux de l'Agglomeration d'Alger" (SEDAL). SEDAL
was formed by a merger of three existing companies (two concerned with water
supply - ECOEVA and SONADE - and one operating a meter-reading service - SACE)
with the sewerage service of the City of Algiers.
2..       SEDAL is about to embark on a substantial capital program (about
US$220 million over the next 5 years) involving new wells and water distribu-
tion systems, sewer interceptors and a sewage treatment plant. In order that
the company should be fully equipped to tackle this program in the most effec-
tive way, consultants are to be retained to advise on certain aspects of
SEDAL's organization and management, financial structure and tariff policies.
The required services are described below.
Organization and Management Studies
3.        SEDAL is, by its statute, a Socialist Enterprise of Wilaya, and as
such is subject to the principles of socialist management applicable to all
Algerian Enterprises. The objectives of the organization and management
studies are to establish within this framework the most effective organization
structure to enable SEDAL to discharge its responsibilities, and to determine
the best means of integrating the operations and staff of the four constituent
entities into the new structure. To this end, it is envisaged that the con-
sultant's studies will cover (but will not necessarily be limited to) the
following aspects of corpotate organization:
(a) definition of the main functions within SEDAL and the
principal line and staff relationships;
(b) establishment of appropriate procedures for planning and
decision-making;
(c) definition of appropriate machinery for liaison and con-
sultation with concerned agencies of the city, the Wilaya
and central government;
(d) preparation of statements of objectives and responsibility
for each senior management position;



-53 -                          ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 6
(e) preparation of detailed organization charts for each
division/department within the proposed structure.
4.        After completion and agreement of the organizational proposals, the
consultant is required to proceed to a number of detailed studies as follows:
(a)  the development of proposals for the rationalization of ser-
vices common to some or all of the previous four entities;
in particular, purchasing, storekeeping and transport;
(b) examination of the metering, billing and collection procedures
operated by the four entities (including the use of data pro-
cessing equipment) and development of proposals for the
harmonization of these procedures;
(c) examination of the activities of the meter-reading service
company SACE (which is currently unprofitable) and a similar
service provided by a unit of one of the water companies
(SONADE-WA) and the development of proposals as to:
(i) the desirability of continuing to provide the
service; and, if appropriate
(ii) the best way of organizing and operating the
service; and
(iii) the means of charging for it.
(d)  the design of an organization plan, staffing requirement,
terms of reference and work schedule for an internal audit
function covering all aspects of the company's activities.
Tariff Studies
5.        The consultant is required to develop a tariff structure which SEDAL
might use for charging both water supply and sewerage services, together with
a schedule of proposed rates for the years 1980-1985. In the course of this
part of the study, the consultant is expected first to develop forecasts of:
(a) consumer use of the services, in terms of numbers of
connections, volume of water sales, and any other
measures he considers relevant;
(b) the operating costs of the services, taking into
account the organization structure proposed in the
organization and management study, and including
depreciation of fixed assets value at estimated
replacement cost, and any taxes or duties likely
to be imposed on SEDAL.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 6
6.        In developing his proposals for the tariff structure and rates, the
consultant should thoroughly examine and evaluate the following:
(a)  the economic efficiency of the proposed tariffs, in terms of
their reflection of the estimated long-run marginal costs
of the services;
(b)  the extent to which SEDAL's activities convey benefits to a
wider public than its own connected customers - for example,
by safeguarding health and protecting against stormwater
damage - and the possibility of recovering (by taxes or
otherwise) such benefits in the form of income for SEDAL;
(c)  the effect (if any) of the proposed tariffs on the forecast
of water sales, and the adequacy of the resultant total
revenues to cover costs as defined at 5(b) above;
(d) the extent to which identifiable groups or classes of consumers
impose special costs on the system, which should be reflected
in special charges to those consumers;
(e)  the possibility and justification of charging to industries
rates which would take into account the quality of the liquid
wastes discharged by these industries;
(f) whether the proposed levels of charges are within the reasonable
ability-to-pay of all consumer groups, and whether a case exists
on these or any ot:her grounds for concessionary rates to be
applied to particular consumer groups or levels of consumption;
(g) the effectiveness of the proposed water rates in discouraging
waste and inessential use of water, since this is SEDAL's policy;
(h)  the means of recovering the cost of supplies delivered free
through public taps;
(i) consistency of the tariffs with the methods of assessment and
billing proposed under terms of reference 4(b) and 4(c) above.
7.        On the basis of his forecasts of operating costs, future investments
and replacement of obsolete assets, and revenues available from the proposed
tariffs, the consultant should prepare projections of the resultant cash flows
from operations. The consultant is then required to propose:
(i) the proportions in which it would be appropriate to apply
this cash flow to
(a) debt service on borrowed funds;



- 55 -                        ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 6
(b) contributions to SEDAL's current or future
capital expenditures;
(ii)  the proportions in which funds provided to SEDAL by the
Government should accordingly be divided between capital
contributions and loans;
(iii) the appropriate terms (interest, maturity and grace periods)
for any loan funds so provided; and
(iv) the life expectancy of assets acquired or built with the
funds so provided.
8.        In carrying out this part of the studies, it is expected that the
consultant will wish to examine a number of alternatives. In evaluating these
alternatives he should pay particular regard to the declared objectives of
Government with respect to the financing of investments by enterprises, as set
out in the Finance Law of 1977.
9.        At the conclusion of this part of the studies, the consultant should
prepare complete financial projections (income statements, balance sheets and
cash flow statements) for the recommended alternative. In the event he wishes
to submit alternative schemes for consideration, financial projections should
be completed for each alternative.
Financial Objectives and Performance Indicators
10.       The final part of the studies comprises the formulation of financial
objectives for SEDAL's management, and performance indicators by which its pro-
gress towards these objectives may be monitored. The objectives should be
consistent with the policies proposed for tariffs and capitalization.  They,
and the performance indicators, should be capable of precise and unambiguous
expression and within the capacity of SEDAL's information systems to calculate
and report promptly and accurately. They may include (but are not necessarily
limited to) rates of return, cash generation ratios, balance sheet ratios,
measures of unit costs and service levels. If appropriate, separate indicators
may be developed for different parts of the company's operation, including in
particular the water supply and sewerage operations.
Timetable and Reports
11.       It is envisaged that the organization/management study and the
tariff/financial study will be carried out in parallel, and an elapsed time
of not more than 12 months (from mobilization of the consultant's team in
Algiers) is allowed for completion of the assignment.
12.       The following reports are to be submitted:



-56 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 6
(i)  not later than the end of the sixth month, a first report
on organization and management, containing recommendations
on the matters set: out in terms of reference 3(a) to 3(e);
two monchs will be allowed for consideration of this report
by the Authorities, discussion with the consultant, and
determination of any revision which may be necessary;
(ii) at the end of the assignment:
(a) a final report on organization and management, incor-
porating any revisions made to the first report and
including in addition the results of the consultant's
studies under terms of reference 4(a) to 4(d); and
(b)  the report on tariffs and finance, covering the matters
described in terms of reference 5-10 and setting out
the financial projections referred to in terms of
reference 9.
13.       The interim reports are to be submitted in 20 copies, and the final
reports in 50 copies, in the French language, and delivered initially to the
Director General of SEDAL.
Proposals
14.       Proposals in 5 copies in the French language should be submitted by
to:
15.       Proposals should contain, inter alia:
(a)  a description of the consulting firm (or firms) and its
areas of specialism;
(b)  a description of other relevant assignments previously
carried out by the firm;
(c)  an explanation of the way in which the consultant proposes
to approach the assignment, including any comment he may
wish to make on the terms of reference or any modifications
he may wish to propose in the interests of better achieving
the objectives of the assignment;
(d)  a brief description of any special methodology to be employed
(for example, use of computers);



-57 -                         ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 6
(e)  a staffing chart for the assignment, showing each specialist
to be employed and indicating the nature and duration of his
involvement (distinguishing time in Algeria from time at the
home office);
(f) an explanation of how supervision of the assignment is to be
maintained by the firm's principals;
(g) curricula vitae of key personnel nominated for the assignment;
(h) a statement of any special facilities the consultant may
require in carrying out the assignment.
16.       Proposals will be judged on technical merit and fees need not be
quoted. After ranking of all proposals received by the due date, the consul-
tant ranked first on technical grounds will be invited to negotiate terms for
carrying out the assignment. In the event that agreement cannot be reached,
the consultant ranked second on technical grounds will be invited to nego-
tiate, and so on. Any assistance the Algerian authorities may be able to
provide in regard to accommodation, local transportation and other adminis-
trative matters will be discussed at negotiations.
January 25, 1978



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEDAL: INCOME STATEMENTS OF COMPONENT ENTITIES FOR 1976, AND CONSOLIDATED 1976-79
(DA million)
------------ Estimated Actual, 1976 -----------              ------- Forecast (SEDAL)-----
Sewerage
ECOEVA   SONADE   SACE        Service  Consolidatedl/         1977          1978          1979
REVENUES
Water Sales                           29.5      13.0                               38.7              40            70            72
Connection fees, meter rents
and maintenance                               3.6      1.1          0.1         4.8                5            5             5
Sewerage tax                                                           1.5          1.5               -             -            -
Contract work                          9.2       0.7                                9.9               5             5             5
Total Revenue                      38.7      17.3      1.1          1.6        54.9              50            80            82
OPERATING EXPENSES
Water Supply:
Materials, power and
maintenance                       12.9       6.9      0.1                     16.1              17            18            20
Payroll                            11.6       9.8      1.4                     22.8              24            25            26
Depreciation                        9.1       2.9      0.1                     12.1              14            16            17
33.6      19.6      1.6                     51.0              55            59            63
Sewerage:
Materials and maintenance                                           2.8         2.8                3             3            4
Payroll                                                             4.6         4.6                5             6            7
Depreciation                                                        7.6         7.6                9             9            9
15.0        15.0              17            18            20
Taxes and Duties                       2.1       1.4       0.2          -           3.7               4             5             5
Total Operating Expenses           35.7      21.0      1.8         15.0        69.7              76            82            88
NET OPERATING INCOME                   3.0       (3.7)    (0.7)      (13.4)       (14.8)            (26)           (2)           (6)
Non-operating Income (Expense)        (0.1)      (0.8)      -           -          (0.9)              -             -             -
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST             2.9      (4.5)    (0.7)       (13.4)       (15.7)            (26)           (2)           (6)
Interest                                     -         -       -
NET INCOME                             2.9      (4.5)    (0.7)       (13.4)       (15.7)            (26)           (2)
l/After consolidation adjustments.



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEDAL: SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS, 1977-79
- - - - - - DA million -
Sources                                         1977              1978                1979
Net Income before interest                      (26)                (2)                 (6)
Depreciation                                     23                 25                 26
Operational Requirements                         (3)                23                 20
Increase (decrease) in working capital          (14)               (10)               (17)
(excluding cash)
Loan retirement                                   -                  -                 18
Interest                                          -
Net Internal Cash Flow                           il                 33                 19
Capital Expenditures:
Project                                                -  
Other                                        43                90                  50
43                90                 50
Balance to be Financed                           32                 57                 31
by Governnent Equity Contribution            32                57                 31
Government Loan
32



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEDAL: BALANCE SHEETS OF COMPONENT ENTITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1976 AND CONSOLIDATED 1976-79
(DA million)
---------- Estimated Actual, 1976 ---------------lt         ----- Forecast (SEDAL) --------
ECOEVA   SONADE   SACE    Sewerage   Consolidated-          1977          1978           1979
Service
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                451.0     67.7    0.4        380.3         899.4            942         1,033          1,083
Less Depreciation           234.4     20.5    0.2        227.5         482.6            506           531            557
Net Fixed Assets          216.6     47.2    0.2        152.8         416.8            436           502            526
Work in Progress              0.7      0.1      -           -            0.8             -            -              -
Total Fixed Assets            217.3      47.3    0.2       152.8         417.6            436           502            526
Preliminary Expenses2/          0.2        -      -           -            0.2             -             -               -
Inventories                     8.1     13.7      -           -           21.8             24            26              28      1
Accounts Receivable3/          40.9      34.9    5.6          -           74.7              55            50             50      Y
Cash and Equivalent            28.1       1.0     -          _            29.1             29            29              29     °
Total Current Assets           77.1      49.6    5.6          -          125.6            108           105             107
Total Assets                  294.6      96.9    5.8       152.8         543.4            544           607             633
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity                        262.2      79.2   (1.7)      152.8         492.5            498           554             579
Long-Term Debt                 16.5       1.5                             18.0             18            18             -
Short-Term Loans                0.7        -      -           -            0.7             -             -               -
Accounts Payable               15.2      16.2    7.5          -           32.2             28             35             54
Total Current Liabilities    15.9        16.2    7.5       152.8          32.9             28             35             54
Total Equity and
Liabilities                 294.6     96.9    5.8        152.8         543.4            544           607             633
H
i/After consolidation adjustments.
2'Less amounts written off.
2/Less provisions for doubtful debts.



-tbi-                        ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
PRINCIPLES OF FINANCING FOR ALGERIAN SOCIALIST ENTERPRISES
1.        Since independence, Algerian Socialist Enterprises have been regarded
by Government as playing a key role in national development since they are
the instruments through which a large proportion of development projects are
planned and implemented. The methods by which these enterprises obtain funds
for such projects have, however, undergone considerable evolution and change
during the last 10 years.
2.        Prior to 1976, the State was regarded as the sole source of finance
for enterprises undertaking major capital projects, and to complement this
role it also acted as the sole repository for enterprises' surplus funds.
During this period, enterprises were seen as having:
(i)  a right to withdraw from the State funds needed for the
execution of their projects, once planning had been properly
completed and the projects were cleared through appropriate
channels in the Ministry of Plan and Ministry of Finance;
(ii) an obligation to return surplus funds to the State for
re-cycling to other projects.
3.        It should be noted that the extent and timing of the obligation to
return funds were unrelated to the amount of any funds the enterprise might
previously have withdrawn from the State; the concept was that of the mobiliza-
tion of savings for re-investment rather than of the servicing of a loan. In
1969, two principal mechanisms were set up to implement this policy:
(a) "special contributions" - a levy on the enterprise at a
rate varying from year to year; and
(b) the compulsory investment of enterprises' depreciation pro-
visions in Government investment bonds (bons d'equipement).
4.        In the ensuing years considerable difficulties were experienced with
this system. On the one hand, the yield of the special contributions persis-
tently failed to meet the amounts budgeted; on the other hand, enterprises
which had accumulated substantial short term debt to cover operating deficits
and provide working capital turned for assistance to Government, which then
granted longer loans (prets d'assainissement) to enable them to meet their
obligations.
5.        As a result of this experience, changes were introduced into the
financial policies, beginning in 1976 and codified in the Finance Laws of
1976 and 1977. The main thrust of these changes is to transfer the prime



- 62 -                         ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
responsibility for the provision of investment funds to specialized financial
institutions and the banking system, through the instrument of medium and long
term loans, and to encourage enterprises to develop a self-financing capability.
The special contributions have been discontinued, and investment in "bons
d'equipement" is now optional instead of compulsory. In addition, the Treasury
may now grant long-term loans for working capital to public enterprises.
"Prets d'assainissement" are still available from public funds, but emphasis
is now placed on encouraging enterprises themselves to institute the measures
necessary to achieve solvency.
6.        Whilst the full effects of the new policy have yet to be seen in
practice, it seems clear that managers will in future be expected to exercise
minchl greater autonomy in the conduct of their enterprises' financial affairs,
and borrowed funds will be managed increasingly according to conventional bank-
ing principles.
November 10, 1977



- 63 -                        ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 5
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF SEDAL AFTER 1979
Costs and Revenues
1.        Although the effects of rationalization on costs remains to be seen,
the level of costs in general is less uncertain than the other financial ele-
ments. Operating costs after transfer of the project facilities to SEDAL
(1982) are composed of approximately two-thirds direct expenses and one-third
depreciation and, since the latter is based on assets at approximate replace-
ment cost, both are sensitive to the rate of inflation. On the assumption
that cost increases attributable to general monetary inflation can be passed
on more readily than real cost increases, changes in inflation need not
invalidate the analysis; although inflation persistently higher than that
forecast (6%) would, other things being equal, enable a higher loan debt to
be serviced.
2.        The level of revenue is more difficult to predict.  Up to now, water
sales have been charged at a uniform price to all consumers, and a more sophis-
ticated tariff needs to be introduced to meet the objectives set out in Annex
12, para 6. At present, no systematic data exist by which the revenue effects
of a differential tariff for different consumer groups or levels of consump-
tion may be assessed, since the operations of SONADE/ECOEVA have not hitherto
needed it. Sewerage was previously charged by a tax, but this was not cost-
related and did not apply to all beneficiaries; a new method of charging for
sewerage will have to be designed and introduced. No information is presently
available on which consumers' ability-to-pay can be assessed, and so no judge-
ment can yet be made as to the need for lifeline water rates or cross-sub-
sidization for the urban poor. Finally, an assessment will need to be made
of the new sources of revenue which may be available to SEDAL as a result of
the project, for example:
(i) the potential for sales of sludge manure:
(ii) the feasibility of securing as revenue to SEDAL any part of
the benefit conveyed to the community at large by way of
environmental improvements and the enhancement of property
values;
(iii) the possibility of recompensating SEDAL for flood control
services.
3.        Therefore, until these uncertainties are resolved and a comprehen-
sive tariff policy can be implemented, the level of revenue after 1979 must
remain largely speculative. At present, an assessment of what may be feasi-
ble can be made only by reference to the existing single water price and
the rates of growth that would be necessary to achieve various levels of



-64 -                          ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 5
performance.  In the following examination, rates of growth are expressed by
reference to the current price of DA 1.00/m3 which has been approved for
1978-79 and which is intended to cover full operating, maintenance and depre-
ciation costs of both water supply and sewerage. The continuation of this
policy into the future may be considered the minimum financial policy (Case
I).  It would call for a rate of tariff increase of 8% a year through 1983 and
6% thereafter.
4.        The economic analysis (Annex 19) indicates that the long-run aver-
age incremental cost of the services is likely to be about DA 1.00/m3 for
water and DA 0.50/m3 for sewerage, in 1977 prices. Since economic considera-
tions argue that charges for the services should eventually reach this average
level, such a policy may be considered a desirable objective; what is uncer-
tain is how quickly it can be attained. An average increase of 21% a year
would be needed to attain it by 1983, and such a rate of increase might well
be considered unacceptably high. This policy, therefore, is probably beyond
the limit of what can be achieved within the project period (Case III). Since
the long-run incremental costs reflect inter alia the costs of collectors
which will not be fully utilized for some years, the failure of pricing
policy fully to reflect these costs at this time does not imply a serious
departure from efficiency pricing.
5.        Within these two etxtremes, the range of possible results have been
examined according to the following criteria:
(a) operating losses (and hence subsidies) should be avoided;
(b) in accordance with current policy, SEDAL should finance as
much as possible cf its capital expenditures by loans on
normal terms, but should also be enabled to develop a rea-
sonable self-financing capability; and
(c) debt service should be covered at least 1.5 times by internal
cash generation as a matter of prudence, particularly desira-
ble in view of the uncertainty of the forecasts.
Debt Servicing Capability
6.        The terms currently applied to loans for development projects from
the Algerian banking sector are maturities of up to 20 years at interest rates
of 2% to 5-1/2%. On this basis, SEDAL's cash flow from depreciation retentions
would support amortization of a debt of about DA 700 million from 1983. The
principal constraint on its debt servicing capability would be its ability to
cover interest charges from operating income, which is directly dependent on
the level of revenues.
7.        Case I, by definition, would provide no operating surplus, and any
debt service would therefore involve payment out of capital to the extent of
the interest charge. Case III would provide sufficient income to cover a
debt of DA 700 million at 5% interest.



-oS-                            ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 5
8.        Between these two extremes (the second of which is probably imprac-
tical) lie a number of other options; each intermediate level of tariffs--and
hence revenue--would support a number of capital sum/maturity/interest rate
combinations. By way of illustration (Case II), a tariff growth of 12% a year
would produce income in 1983 sufficient to support a loan of either DA 500
million at 3%, or DA 400 million at 5%, or DA 350 million at 7.5%; the last
of these approximates the Bank's loan to Government for the sewerage project,
together with accumulated interest during the period of construction.
Financial Performance
9.        The key financial ratios resulting from the various options consid-
ered are tabulated in Table 17-1. At the high tariff levels of Case III,
SEDAL's rate of return would reach 8% by 1982. Cash flow would increase
rapidly, giving a debt service coverage of 2.0 by 1986 and a self-financing
capability of nearly 70%. At the lower tariff levels of Case II the rate
of return would be only 3%. The various loan amount/interest rate combina-
tions make very little difference in cash flow terms, since total debt service
is roughly the same. The combination of higher capital sums and lower interest
rates gives the company a rather greater margin of safety in income statement
term?s, and would also result in slightly higher returns of cash to Government
over the life of the loan. However, all the combinations considered may
reasonably be judged to be within the company's capability to service its
debts given the assumed level of revenue.
Conclusions
10.       The principal conclusions emerging from the above examination are
as follows:
(i)  the most critical determinant of SEDAL's future financial
performance is the level of revenue it can expect, and this
would depend on its future tariff policy.  Until the tariff
study has been carried out and the necessary decisions taken
and implemented, it would be dangerous to attempt to quantify
precisely the proportions of loan debt and equity in which
SEDAL's capital funds should be provided up to 1983;
(ii)  nevertheless, preliminary indications suggest that debt financ-
ing of a part of the project cost would be possible within the
limits of a revenue growth which, by reference only to the
present simplistic tariff, appears not unreasonable. However,
on-lending the whole of the project costs, even at the low
rates of interest current in Algeria, would require a level of
revenue higher than is probably attainable by the end of the
project period;



Table 17-1: Effects of Alternative Tariff Levels on SEDAL's Debt Servicing Capability
Case I                             Case II                                Case III
Average Revenue
DAim3  1983                            1.27                                1.59                                   2.13
Growth % p.a. 1980-83                    8%                                 12%                                    21%
Rate of Return
1983                               -                                    3%                                     8%
1986                                                                    3%                                     7X
Loan Debt (DA million)                      none         300  at  8%        400  at  5%       500  at  3%          700  at  5%
Ratios
Debt:Equity
1983                             0:100             22:78               26:74             33:67                46:54
1986                             0:100             15:85               18:82             22:78                31:69
Debt Service Coverage
1983                                 -              1.5                 1.5               1.5                  1.5
1986                                                1.7                 1.8               1.7                  2.0
Contribution to Current Investment
1983                                                13%                 14%               14%                  23%
1986                                                27%                 29%               27%                  67%
OQ
DMh



- 67 -                      ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 5
(iii)  one of the financing options which at this stage appears
to be feasible is the reimbursement of the equivalent of
Bank's loan to Government, together with accumulated
interest during the construction period.
January 25, 1978



ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS -/
Year
Indicators                                         1978       1979       1980    1981      1982    1983       1984      1985     1986
1. STAFFING
Number of Permanent Staff                      1,300      1,316
Staff per 1,000 Population Served               0.95       0.92
Staff per 1,000 Water Connections               26.4       26.4
2. SYSTEMS OPERATIONS
Water Produced, 106 m3/year                    90.58      94.04      97.57   99.91   103.53   106.05   110.04   112.76   116.95
Water Sold, 106 m3/year  2/                    69.75      72.41      75.13   77.93    80.75    83.78    86.93    90.21    93.56
Unaccounted  for Water, % -                    23.0       23.0       23.0    22.0      22.0      21.0      21.0      20.0      20.0
Number of Water/Sewer Connections, 103         49.3       49.9       50.5    51.1      51.7      52.4      53.0      53.7      54.3
3  FINANCES          -
Rate of Return, Z --
41
Operating Ratio, Z -                           71         75
Debt Equity Ratio                               -          -
Cash Generation I, %                           19.0       16.7
Cash Generation II, % -                         4.3        3.3
Debt Service Coverage                           -          -
Ave. Revenue in DA per m3 produced              0.88       0.87
Operating Expenses in DA per m3 sold 7/         0.82       0.86
Revenue in DA per Unit of Investment -          0.15       0.13
Operating Effectiveness Index 8/                0.65       0.65
Average Rate in DA per m3 sold                  1.00       1.00
4. WATER QUALITY INDEXES 9/
Average DO Content in El Harrach River
Average DO Content in the Bay
Water Wells with E. Coli (Z of samples)
Cases of Infectious Waterborne Diseases
a) Dysentery
b) Thyphoid/Paratyphoid
c) Cholera
d) Poliomyelitis
e) Infectious Hepatitis
1/ Forecast values in years 1980 through 1986 would be discussed and determined
following completion of the management studies.
2/ Volume of Water Produced - Volume Sold/Volume Produced x 100.
31 Income after taxes but before interest divided by average rate base x 100.
4/ Total operating expenses divided by total revenues x 100.
5/ Net cash generation as % of capital investments in the year.
61/ Net annual average cash generation as % of net fixed assets plus works in progress.
7/ Total revenues divided by net fixed assets plus works in progress.                                                                       oe
8/ Revenue collected per m3 produced divided by average revenue billed per m3.
9/ To be reported quarterly and based on monthly recorded figures.
January 27, 1978



-69 -                         ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 7
ALGERIA
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Water Quality Control
1.        The water shortage in Greater Algiers and possible ways to ease it
were discussed in Chapter II and Annex 1. The groundwater aquifer, which is
presently used for irrigation and urban and industrial consumption, is of good
quality, fairly near the city and irrigated lands, and relatively inexpensive
to exploit. However, the aquifer is now overpumped and as a result, is
lowering at a high rate of 0.40 m/year. This depletion of the groundwater
may be stopped and further exttaction allowed, if the recharging rate of the
aquifer can be increased through artificial injection of surface water of
acceptble quality. A study by the COMEDOR consultants of the soil formations
above the aquifer shows that such injection is feasible and that treated
sewage might be used for recharging the aquifer.
2.        Thus, economic justification for controlling water pollution of
El Harrach River would be highly dependent on its use as a surface water
source for groundwater recharge or irrigation. An alternative to the reuse
of treated sewage might be to collect other water sources located in adjacent
basins. Among these sources is the Rocher des Pigeons surface water complex
considered the cheapest available outside resource for Greater Algiers. The
proposed project should be preferred if in combination with others works
required for groundwater collection, it proves to be the cheapest alterna-
tive for an immediate increase of the water resources in Greater Algiers.
Least-Cost Alternative Scheme
3.        Calculations for the cost comparison between the alternative of
building the sewerage facilities and additional water wells to supply Greater
Algiers, and that of collecting additional water from the Rocher des Pigeons,
are shown in Table 19-1 of this Annex. It is assumed that the sewage treat-
ment plant's effluent would be injected into the aquifer or used in irriga-
tion, and as a result, an additional volume of water (190,000 m3/day) would
become available for urban supply. This volume would be sufficient to cover
the water supply needs up to the year 1993.



- 70 -                       ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 7
Table 19-1: Cost Comparison of Alternative Water Supply
Systems for Greater Algiers /1
Sewage Treatment and Wells             Surface Water Treatment
Capital    Operating       Total      Capital      Operating       Total
Year      Costs   and Maintain.    Costs         Costs    and Maintain.    Costs
1978      16.79          -           16.79       22.00            -          22.00
1979      37.47          -           37.47       50.60            -          50.60
1980     116.60          -          116.60      136.40            -         136.40
1981     131.06          -          131.06      124.52            -         124.52
1982     112.46         4.10        116.56      107.80          11.69       119.49
1983       3.45         8.93         12.38         -            12.44        12.44
1984       5.47        10.20         15.67         -            13.19        13.19
1985       3.72        10.90         14.62         -            13.94        13.94
1986       5.74        11.50         17.24         -            14.69        14.69
1987       5.45        11.95         17.40         -            15.44        15.44
1988       9.74        12.50         22.24         -            16.19        16.19
1989       1.71        12.90         14.61         -            16.94        16.94
1990       6.01        14.10         20.11         -            17.69        17.69
1991       6.23        15.30         21.53         -            18.44        18.44
1992       6.44        16.10         22.54         -            19.19        19.19
1993       6.16        16.80         22.96         -            19.96        19.96
1994         -                       16.80         -              "          19.96
1995       2.60                      19.40        6.80                       26.76
1996       2.40                      19.20        7.20                      27.16
1997      11.20                      28.00        1.00                      20.96
1998-
2017        -                       16.80         -                         19.96
/L   All costs are expressed in DA million.
4.        Both capital and operating costs of the sewerage works and water
wells and transmission facilities are included in the first alternative. Only
the capital and operating costs of the production facilities for the second
alternative are envisaged. The cost of needed additional distribution facil-
ities is not considered since it would be roughly the same for both alterna-
tives. The average life of the major assets (dam, structures of the treatment
plants and pumping stations, pipelines) is projected to be 40 years. Provi-
sion is made for replacement of equipment such as pumps and motor drives,
which are expected to last 15 years on average. All values in the cost
streams are expressed in terms of mid-1977 price levels.
5.        The present worths of the two alternatives at discount rates varying
from 2% to 12% are given in Iable 19-2.  A comparison of the costs of the
first alternative to those of the second one shows that for all the discount
rates considered, the first alternative is more economical, and at this stage,
is the least-cost project for an immediate increase of the water resources in
Greater Algiers.



- 71 -                        ANNEX 19
Page 3 of 7
Table 19-2:  Tabulation of Present Worths of Systems Considered
Discount Rate, %
Alternative        2.0      4.0      6.0    7.0      8.0     9.0      10.0      12.0
I              808     661      563    525      493      465      441      402
II             867     705      599    559      525      496  <  470       429
Cost saving,
Alternative I       59       44       36     34       32       31      29        27
Cost/Benefit Analysis
6.        Data for the calculation of the costs and benefits of the proposed
investments are given in Table 19-3.  Capital costs are those of the proposed
works, production wells and water transmission and distribution facilities,
and of the subsequent investments needed in the next 40 years. Only the in-
cremental operating and maintenance expenses due to the project are taken into
account. The total revenues represent the income earned from water sales
valued at DA 1.00/m3 and sludge fertilizer for agriculture estimated at DA
2.37 million per year. An average of 69 hm3 of water is projected to be sold
annually from 1993 onwards. All values in the cost and revenue streams are
expressed in terms of mid-1977 price levels and are taken net of tax and
inflation.



-72 -                         ANNEX 19
Page 4 of 7
Table 19-3: Calculation of Project Costs and Revenues /1
Capital       Operating        Total       Water       Sludge      Total
Year      Costs      and Maintain.       Costs       Sales       Manure    Revenues
1978      16.79          -               16.79         -            -          -
1979      37.47           -              37.47         -            _
1980     116.60           -             116.60         -            -          -
1981     131.06           -             131.06         -            -          -
1982     112.46         4.10            116.56       25.45          -        25.45
1983      13.35         9.03             22.38       27.97         2.37      30.34
1984      10.37         10.30            20.67       31.96          "        34.33
1985       8.62         11.00            19.62       34.68          "        37.05
1986       5.94         12.00            17.94       38.87          "        41.24
1987       5.45        12.55             18.00       42.85          "        45.22
1988       9.74        13.10             22.84       49.96          "        52.33
1989        1.71        13.90            15.61       51.21          "        53.58
1990        6.01        14.79            20.80       55.60                   57.97
1991       6.23         15.60            21.83       60.15          "        62.52
1992       6.44        16.96             23.40       64.85          "        67.22
1993        6.21        17.75            23.96       69.35          "        71.72
1994          -           "              17.75         "            " e
1995       2.60           "              20.35         et
1996        2.40          "              20.15         "            " i
1997      11.20           "              28.95         "            "
1998-
2017         -           "              17.75
/1   Expressed in DA million.
7.        The calculation of the project benefits over its costs (B/C) dis-
counted at various rates is presented in Table 19-4. These benefits are based
on the prices that the consumers are expected to pay for water supply services,
which are used as a surrogate to value the project benefits. The analysis shows
that, at a discount rate of 8% which is considered the relevant opportunity
cost of capital in Algeria, the benefits conveyed by the project simply in
terms of the additional water resources it provides are sufficient to equal
its costs. Other extra-market benefits such as recreation amenities in the
river and the bay, better environment and public health, provision of storm
drainage and flood protection, and increased values of the properties and land
along the river, are not reflected in these prices, and were it possible to
quantify them in monetary terms, would have substantially boosted the benefit-
cost ratios for the proposed investments.



73 -                         ANNEX 19
Page 5 of 7
Table 19-4: Benefit-Cost Tabulation of Proposed Scheme
Present                                   Discount Rate, %
Worth              2.0     4.0      6.0    7.0      8.0      9.0     10.0      12.0
Benefits          1,479    994      695    590      504      435     378        291
Costs               843    688      585    545      511     482      457        415
B/C Ratios         1.75   1.44    1.19   1.08    0.98    0.90    0.83         0.70
Average Incremental Costs
8.        The sewer system in Greater Algiers carries both effluent and storm-
water; given the technical characteristics of the system, it is projected that
about 75% of the volume of wastewater collected and treated would be domestic
and industrial effluent, and the remaining 25% would be runoff.  In calculating
long run average incremental costs, therefore, it is appropriate first to
allocate the costs of the system between effluent and stormwater services in
this ratio. The system costs to be taken into account comprise the capital
and operating costs of the primary sewage collectors and the treatment
facilities; the costs of secondary sewers are considered to be recoverable
directly from beneficiaries at the time of connection.
9.        For domestic and industrial effluent disposal, it can reasonably be
assumed that the volumes collected are equal to the volumes of potable water
supplied, since only an insignificant portion of the supply is consumed. The
costs of effluent collection and treatment can therefore appropriately be
expressed as an additional cost per m3 of water supplied. For stormwater
drainage it can be assumed that the volumes of runoff entering the system are
directly proportional to the areas drained and the costs of removal can there-
fore be expressed per m2 served.
10.       Table 19-5 shows the long-run average incremental costs of combined
sewerage in Greater Algiers, allocated between the services on the above basis,
at mid-1977 prices and at discount rates between 2% and 12%. At a discount
rate of 8% the incremental cost of effluent collection and treatment averages
DA 0.50/m3, and of drainage averages DA 0.09/m2/year. At the same rate, the
average incremental cost of water supply is estimated to be DA 1.00/m3.



- 74 -                        ANNEX 19
Page 6 of 7
Table 19-5: Long-Run Average Incremental Costs of Sewerage
/1
Present Value                         Average Cost
Discount Total Cost of Total Cost of Volumes of  Built-up  Wastewater  Drainage
Rate, %   Sewerage /2   Drainage /2  Water, hm3  Areas,Km2   DA/m3    DA/m2/year
2.0       895              299          2,211       3,947      0.40       0.076
4.0       694              231          1,595      2,844        0.44      0.081
6.0       564              188          1,209      2,154       0.47       0.087
7.0       516              172          1,070      1,905       0.48       0.090
8.0       475              158            956      1,702       0.50       0.093
9.0       441              147            862       1,534      0.51       0.096
10.0       412              137            784       1,394       0.53      0.098
11.0       364              121            662       1,176      0.55       0.103
/L   Computed for 40 years.
/2   Expressed in DA million.
11.       Under the proposed project, a new tariff structure and rates for
water supply and sewerage is to be developed for implementation by 1980. The
associated studies will specifically address the feasibility of recovering the
long-run average incremental costs of the services from the appropriate bene-
ficiaries (see Annex 12, para. 6).
Sensitivity Analysis
12.       A sensitivity anclysis of the costs and revenues of the project
shows that the return on the proposed investments is moderately sensitive to
the levels of water sales and capital costs. As shown in Table 19-6, for each
5% decrease in water sales or increase in the capital costs, the return would
decrease by about 0.5%. Variations in the operating and maintenance costs are
not considered, since any increase in these costs should be offset by a pro-
portional increase in the tariffs.
Table 19-6: Sensitivity Analysis of the Return /1
Stream           -25    -20    -15    -10       -5      0    5    10   15   20   25
------------------------ % of Change in -----------------------
Total Costs    11.2   10.4    9.7    9.1    8.5    7.9  7.4  6.9  6.4  6.0  5.5
Total Revenues  4.9    5.5    6.2    6.8    7.3    7.9  8.4  9.0  9.5 10.0 10.4
/L   The figures give the resulting rates of return if the percentages of
change shown occur on either the stream of costs or revenues.



- 75 -                       ANNEX 19
Page 7 of 7
13.       Under the most pessimistic conditions in which the investments would
increase by 15% and water sales would fall by 10%, the return would be about
6%, which is still acceptable considering the social character of the project.
It is more probable, however, that given the present water rationing in
Greater Algiers, water sales would be greater than projected, and consequently
a return higher than 8% may be anticipated.
Employment Creation
14.       It is estimated that about 29,000 man-years of employment would
be generated by the project. Assuming that 90% of such employment would go
to unskilled labor, about 2,000 jobs would be created; 100 of them would be
permanent. The average cost of creating a job is calculated to be US$47,000
or only 6% above the Algerian threshold of US$44,300 for a poverty-oriented
project.
January 25, 1978






IBRD 13056
t  I   g              v               r                            T9t                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtjGiJST 19fl
PORTUGA$(_                    S P A  I N
sStsf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rii K fi7                                                                                      c`hel
T-igg-uit        El    dned      T U N  I S   A A-
> f ' n_~~~~ _                                                                                                       (         "HslMssod\<
1P  OR  ,) CC                                      B,ca            ,)    
r._.r~~~~~~ <,x  V  ,             " X-    $                                            0                       `s t \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ L I BY A
oMAU RITAN IA, Il/",.
ALGERIA                              A'                              I                   ,                       1     / ;
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT                                 "                                                           / A g          G
Project Location                                       .                   IL
03   Area of proposed works                              \,>                           ,       _,N                                    -     
Arnan of btudie-                                    \
_    M   ports 
Main national roads                                                                                              , s   
M.i, Sahara racks trk
Stan.drd gouge ralwaysY
Nouwge rrways                                                                                  .                              1 i  i               NIGER
*    nterrnohonol airports                                           2                                     ).
u+~ Socondory nîrpnrAs                                                             . L 
20t              ~~~~~~rIvars ar ndtnrrmtn tua trnnms                                                                                        *WoLase2z1,v1n
-  ntnrnotinnol noundarlien                                                                    i                                               Yenm1mLs  d
O        100      Z00       300       4030     300!|                                                                                                          WodZn  d  ar#tr  y
0 190                          200             ro                                   5'                                               , ept I   c Ç  Fu' dLi5'Pi,nt
MIL ES                                           SITG   SL2                                  l         U~~~~~~~o  i o Anihd  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _






IBRD 13057
ALGERIA                                                                                              AUGUSf t977
l e dte r r a n e a n                                        aec                                            ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT
Urbon  Expansion in Greater Algiers
t   EL B                                      ALG@E L
DR    1     ~~BIRKHOD   E                                                                     îFA
i-X~~~    ~   t ~SAOULA             \L                                    É                                                              -Dlstri,t .,d t..sh pboundoû,eE
1F      >              <Si  ?, yg           W         g            +                             /                          .  .- . m ts of AlgfiErs urbon agglomeration 1974~~-- ---L ~t~ f Ag,-eba  qg.~eat,n, 97
t",g   ,,/-.s. t  .-D-   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r-_ÏX,tm In usrb.or, aes1977
r'  À~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
KIoErR                                               //                   s9 91   1                                                                                         Ma - r dsr It;r;'fKSeb7
KILEs -                                                                                                 J r  DAIA
N X.                          6N
MILE






IBRD 13058
ALGIERS SEWERAGE PROJECT'F
M   e di g t e r,                       "P a'? '< S<8Sa; 3:J!2N, "mÉLil C- e,,flG.:4 i --                                       Generol Layout   .
; J. 7 :. S A é1.71Y A;~~i, Benion                              '     __7           '     Bo:bEI9           r tre1XHbEKejni                             ;                                    ;                 :-                 FSl i: ti    o, - u  1!SlS!te   m;; &M 
;` ; ta ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fi /L -#ty  } --<;* ;r--\
( s;U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.bE' prlt 
AZeroldo \ S~toueUni "/"- m 't  X!  t7.5     3     $"-d' N                                                                                         R                 1                                             r--
"!;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                       /I \                                                  I 5        Nf--`~ n9tnin,!/  v   _
`i ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        _ /-                                                                                 I          -/  - B"b'                           "'se     S,  E,,  _    |r   ---- > \-A
ElSi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ i
/~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       I                                   i\ BlT u:  y0                                       (N7("    1   'orF-anolecnr
°2^4  e   `   (   /   _>01'   Sf   ,,  ,  -  _  _  . Fumping strt on8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                   C                                    '
edvo                                                                                                                              .  -  Ls
w 40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                              5    FFtç< W lcug
5-d-                                             % .N L                                  y'                   I  M                                " ."nt
4B.bo H.s.e~                                                                   
i                             Y'    s ~~~~~~~~~~~B-i    E-loy                                                      EXISTING  IMMEDIAtE   FUTURE
_\     j,                                                                                       STAGE      STAGE
1'-                                                   -                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main) collectors
B,rT..t.                                                                                                                                                  Fo/r  F aced mina ns
"J                                    *-             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ewage trenitment plaints
-Pamping stations
____                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dischtirge
Incinertotr plant
A'>                                                                                                                                                     S                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Campost plants
A  Solid waste plaint
----Drainage area boundaries
REhIAARiver basins
FF. F/F'PFF'FFJFF FF'                  -\- \I                                                                                  Rivers
oIOMETERS                                                                            FFFFFFFFFFFFFFF 2-8-Limits at Algiers'urban aggloaneration, 2000
KILOMETERS
MILES                                                                                                                                                                                                        R........... / /~ WV/dd.Wd t.aFFil F  - RaIway
TF Et 'Aib.



