CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1545 AL
Project Agreement
(Algiers Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE DES EAUX DE
L' AGGLOMERATION D' ALGER
Dated July 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1545 AL
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
SOCIETE DES EAUX DE L'AGGLOMERATION D'ALGER (hereinafter called
SEDAL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eighty-two million dollars ($82,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that SEDAL agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B)  by a Reimbursement iLreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and SEDAL, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
SEDAL on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SEDAL, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SEDAL shall carry out Parts E through H of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate


﻿- 2 -
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices. Furthermore, as from 1980, SEDAL shall take all necessary
action as shall be required to provide public water supply and
sewerage services to the segment of the population living in
Greater Algiers and, at the time, not connected to the water and
sewerage networks.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SEDAL in the supervision
of the construction under Part E of the Project, SEDAL shall, to
the extent necessary, employ engineering consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) On or before September 30, 1978 (or such other date as
the Bank may agree) SEDAL shall, for the purpose of carrying out
the studies under Part G of the Project, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. SEDAL shall review the findings
and recommendations included in such studies and, thereafter, take
all appropriate action pertaining thereto, as set out below:
(i) Upon completion of the organizational and manage-
ment studies for setting up SEDAL's structures,
SEDAL shall promptly review with the Borrower and
the Bank the recommendations included in such
studies and adopt structures and administrative
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such struc-
tures and administrative procedures may be further
modified by agreement between the Bank and SEDAL.
(ii) Without limitation on the provisions of Sec,ion
4.03 of this Agreement and upon completion of the
financial studies, tariff studies, and analyses of
the operating costs of SEDAL's services (being
undertaken with a view to defining the financial
policies, the levels of charges to be made for the
services provided by SEDAL, the self-financing
capability SEDAL could achieve and the criteria for
SEDAL's financial management and structure leading
to the most economic operation of SEDAL), SEDAL
shall promptly review with on the one hand the
Borrower and on the other hand the Bank the find-
ings included in such studies. On the basis of said
review, proposals on said financial policies and
criteria for SEDAL, acceptable to the Bank, shall
be made to the Borrower by SEDAL. SEDAL shall


﻿- 3 -
implement as of calendar year 1980, or such later
date as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Bank, said proposed financial policies and
criteria, but only after their approval by the
Borrower.
(c) (i) On or before September 30, 1978 (or such other date
as the Bank may agree) SEDAL shall, in order to
assist SEDAL in carrying out Part H of the Project,
(1) employ two training advisors whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank
and (2) submit to the Bank for its review and
approval a detailed description and timetable of
the proposed training program.
(ii) For the purpose of carrying out such training
program SEDAL shall, promptly after the employment
of such advisors and the approval of such training
program, employ instructors and consultants whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, such instructors and consultants to be
in sufficient numbers as shall be required for the
purpose.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Parts
of the Project to be carried out under Section 2.01 of this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SEDAL undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the funds made available to it by the Borrower
including the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SEDAL to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SEDAL shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the funds made
available to it by the Borrower including the proceeds of the Loan
to be used exclusively for Parts E through H of the Project.


﻿Section 2.05. (a) SEDAL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts E and F of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) SEDAL shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record and
monitor the progress of Parts E through H of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof and the benefits to be derived from them), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the funds made
available to it by the Borrower including the proceeds of the
Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in Parts E through H of the
Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning Parts E through H of the Project, their
respective costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) SEDAL shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of SEDAL and any relevant records and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SEDAL and
the Bank, SEDAL shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as shall have been determined
with the Bank, on the execution and initial operation of Parts E
through H of the Project, their respective costs and the benefits
derived and to be derived from them, the performance by SEDAL, the
Bank and the Borrower of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Reimbursement Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.06. SEDAL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Reimbursement Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. (a) SEDAL shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the nrogress of Parts
E through H of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Reimbursement Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. Furthermore
SEDAL shall report to the Bank, on a quarterly basis until com-
pletion of Parts E through H of the Project, and, thereafter, on
an annual basis for a period of five years, the evolution of the
indicators showing the achievement of the technical and financial
goals set for SEDAL pursuant to Section 4.03 hereof.
(b)  SEDAL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts E through H of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SEDAL of its cbliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Reimbursement Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SEDAL
Section 3.01. (a) SEDAL shall manage and operate all the
facilities and equipment included in the Project.
(b)  SEDAL shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its
operations, all in accordance with appropriate administrative,
financial and public utility practices, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by qualified and
experienced personnel, and in accordance with the SEDAL Statutes.
Section 3.02. SEDAL shall take out and maintain or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. SEDAL shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain, and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
operations.
Section 3.04. SEDAL shall cause all facilities included in
Parts A through E of the Project to be adequately maintained
and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, promptly as
needed, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SEDAL shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) In accordance with the Borrower's Ordon-
nance No. 71-74, dated November 16, 1971, on the socialist manage-
ment of enterprises, SEDAL shall take all steps necessary on
its part to reflect in its statutory capital an amount equivalent
to the funds expended by the Borrower other than the proceeds of
the Loan with respect to Parts A through H of the Project not
later than the date on which SEDAL shall have been charged with
the management and the operation of Parts A through D of the
Project pursuant to paragraph (d) (i) of Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement.
(b) SEDAL shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year beginning with the fiscal
year 1978 audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by auditors selected in agreement
with the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
SEDAL and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as SEDAL and the Bank may otherwise
agree, SEDAL shall:
(i) as from the fiscal year beginning January 1, 1978,
apply and maintain its level of charges for ser-
vices provided by it as shall be required to
produce revenues sufficient to cover, for such
year, and the fiscal year 1979, its operating and
maintenance costs; and


﻿- 7 -
(ii) as from the fiscal year beginning January 1,
1980, apply and maintain its level of charges for
services provided by it as shall be required to
produce revenues sufficient to cover, for such
year, and each subsequent fiscal year, the aggre-
gate amount of its operating and maintenance costs,
interest and other charges on debt and repayment of
debt in excess of provision for depreciation.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "Operating and mainte-
nance costs" means all SEDAL's costs (including adequate provision
for depreciation on SEDAL's assets in operation properly valued in
accordance with a method acceptable to the Bank).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank and of SEDAL thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Bank shall promptly so notify SEDAL.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-8-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SEDAL:
Societe des Eaux de L'Agglomfration
D'Alger
1 Rue Pirette prolongfe
Alger, Algeria
Cable address:                    Telex:
SEDAL                             52253
Algiers, Algeria
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SEDAL may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as SEDAL shall
designate in writing, and SEDAL shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE DES EAUX DE
L'AGGLOMERATION D' ALGER
By /s/ Abdelhag Dib
Authorized Representative


