DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PE-51A
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
INDIA
October 11, 1972
Education Projects Division
Asia
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or ^ited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit    =    Indian Rupee (Rs) 7.28
Rs 1             3    US$ 0.13
Rs 1 million     a    US$ 137,174
Weights and Measures
1 kR             =    2.20 pounds
1 mrn                 10.76 sq.ft.
1 km2            -    0.38 sq.mi.
1 ha .                2.4i7 acres
Abbreviations
GOI    - Government of India
TARI   = Indian Agricultural Research Institute
IARS   = Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics
ICAR   = Indian Council of Agricultural Research
VLW    - Village Level Worker
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...............................    i
I.  INTRODUCTION .              ................................                        1
II.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND  .............................                          2
III.     INSTITUTIONAL SETTING IN AGRICULTURE  .....                      .............    4
Center-State  Institutions  ......                 ..................    4
Financial Resources of Agricultural
Universities  ..........              .......................          7
IV.    NEED FOR THE PROJECT  .........                  .........................    8
Assam .............................................  8
Bihar .............................................  0
Manpower and Employment  ......                 ....................   12
V.    THE PROJECT  . ..........................................   13
Technical Assistance  .......                ......................   16
Computer  Center  .........             .........................   17
Cost of  the Project  .......               .......................   19
Financing . ........................................ 21
Implementation  and Disbursements .................  22
VI.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                      ............  23
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited India in
November/December 1971. The mission was composed of Messrs. C. Vidalon,
A. Stam and J. Street (IDA), and Messrs. M. Myers, J. Rigney, L. T. Jones
and Mrs. E. Eppright (consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
Comparative Education Indicators
1    Assam and Bihar State Government and Agricultural University -
Finance, 1965-76
2    Finance - ICAR, Center, Public Sector, 1961-74
3    Assam and Bihar Agricultural Universities - Sources of Income
for Current and Capital Expenditures, 1965-73
4    Requirements and Supply of Agriculture, Veterinary and Home
Science Graduates
5    Agricultural Universities Student Enrollment, 1970-80
6    Staff Development and Fellowships
7    Technical Assistance
8    Summary of Estimated Costs
9    Contingency Allowances
10    Agricultural Universities - Recurrent Expenditure
11    Estimated Schedule of Implementation
12    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAPS
1    Map of Assam
2    Map of Bihar



JNINIA
BASIC DATA
India           Assam           Bihar
Are a
Total                                    3,268,580 km2   122,000 km2    174,000 kp2
Area Cropped (1967-68)                        43%             29%             63%
Average holding                                -            1 hectare       1 hectare
Poj ulation (1971)
Total (mid-1972)                           560 million   15.45 nillion  57.12 million
Growth Rate (1961-71)                          2.2% p.a.      3.0% p.a.       2.0% p.a.
Rural (% of total)                            80.1%          91.6%           90.0%
In Agriculture (% of total)                  68.6%           80.0%           86.0%
Density (mId-lC72)                              172/km2        127/km2         328/km2
Li-Leracy (est.)                             29c%            33%             22%
Inc,ome (1970)
,DP                                       $52.8 billion  $1.1 billioni  $3.2 billion
Growth (1961-70)                               3.4% p.a.      h.2% p.a.       2.1% p.a.
Per Capita                                     $106            $88              $67
From Agriculture & Allied (% of total)         B8.2%         57.0%           53.2%
Growth of Agricultural Inconie (1'61-70)    1.7% p.a.         1.9% p.a.       0.5% p.a.
&xpenditure (1971-72)
Government Total                         $4,91t3.3 million jl17.2 million ' 73). liYLlion
Departments of Agriculture andi
Animal Husbandry                         n.a.           $9Q.  million  i;-!.8 million
i;xpendltures by Agri;ultural Universities  n.a.              $0.8 million   - '.3 million






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SU-MARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the development of two agri-
cultural universities in the States of Assam and Bihar for which an IDA
credit of $12.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The threat of famine of the mid-1960's led to a fresh evaluation
of Indian development priorities and the commitment of a greater portion of
the country's resources to the agricultural sector. Self-sufficiency in food
grain production was made one of the Fourth Plan's (1969-74) highest prior-
ities. The Indian strategy for agricultural development is therefore to
establish innovative agricultural technology through the introduction of
new, high-yielding varieties of food grains and efficient application of
the required inputs. Success of this strategy depends upon efficient serv-
ice institutions, including agricultural universities.
iii.      Properly developed and supported agricultural universities in
other States, such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Mysore, have achieved sub-
stantial success in: (a) producing a new breed of graduates who have prac-
tical training and are motivated to promote rural development; (b) conducting
problem-oriented, applied research with high potential for agricultural
development and improvement of living conditions in rural areas; (c) integrating
research, education and extension activities so that problems in agriculture
and rural life are channelled back to research and education centers and
solutions, advice and assistance flow out to the farmers and rural families;
and (d) raising the level of official and public awareness as to the necessary
preconditions for rural development. This experience led the Indian Council
of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to add the development of agricultural
universities in Assam and Bihar to its program.
iv.       The proposed project, which would be the first World Bank Group
education project in India, would enable the Assam and Bihar Agricultural
Universities to consolidate their constituent campuses and become cohesive
units in charge of state-wide education, research and extension education
programs in agriculture and related fields.
t.        The project would help finance the construction of and furniture
and equipment for extensions to the main university campuses at Jorhat (Assam)
and Pusa (Bihar) and to the veterinary campuses at Gauhati (Assam) and
Ranchi (Bihar). A total of 26 man-years of technical assistance for uni-
versity planning and development and project implementation and 118 man-
years of fellowships for staff development would be included in the project.
A new computer and ancillary equipment to increase the capacity of the In-
stitute of Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS) computer center at Delhi
would also be provided by the project.
vi.       The success of the project in stimulating rural development in
Assam and Bihar will depend not only on the availability of physical facil-
ities but also on the educational, administrative and structural changes



- ii -
that are planned for the universities. Essential requirements for develop-
ing these universities are: (a) adequate, continuing financial support;
(b) competent and properly oriented leadership by vice-chancellors, deans
and directors; and (c) appropriate organization and structure. The Center
and State governments are making efforts to provide for these requirements
and IDA is supporting these efforts by proposing financial assistance for
this project.
vii.      The Education Division of ICAR would be responsible for project
implementation. In addition, a project unit would be established at each
university to coordinate and supervise the project implementation on the
spot.
viii.     Contracts for civil works would be grouped wherever practicable
and most are expected to exceed $100,000. They would, however, be relatively
small and unlikely to attract foreign contractors. Hence, such contracts
will be subject to competitive bidding following national advertising. Equip-
ment estimated to cost more than $100,000 would follow IDA guidelines for
international competitive bidding. Local manufacturers would be accorded a
preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price or the existing duty on
competing imports, whichever is lower. Equipment expected to cost less than
$100,000 and furniture would be procured on the basis of national competitive
bidding.
ix.       Total cost of proposed project is estimated at US$19.4 million,
and the foreign exchange at US$5.1 million. It would be implemented over a
period of 6.5 years; construction would be completed in about 5.5 years.
X.        The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$12 million to
the Government of India for a period of 50 years including a grace period
of 10 years. It would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs and 48%
of the local currency costs of the project.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The need for assistance to higher agricultural education was ten-
tatively determined by IDA reconnaissance missions which visited India in
April and December, 1969. In September/October, 1970, a FAO mission visited
India and identified a possible project which would assist the development
of a small number of agricultural universities. Following discussions with
the Government of India (GOI), the project evolved as assistance to the
agricultural universities of Assam and Bihar. In July/August, 1971, a
joint FAO/IDA mission assisted the Government to prepare the project. An
appraisal mission comprising Messrs. C. Vidalon (agricultural education),
A. Stam (architect), J. Street (economist), from IDA and consultants M.
Myers (agricultural education), J. Rigney (agricultural education), T.L.
Jones (veterinary education) and Mrs. E. Eppright (home science education)
visited India in November/December 1971.
1.02      Agricultural development is urgently needed in Assam and Bihar
and requires the modernization and improvement of the institutions serving the
farmers. The new agricultural universities in Assam and Bihar, formed by
merging existing agricultural and veterinary colleges and agricultural ex-
periment stations into cohesive and more effective institutions, are intended
to produce better trained graduates and disseminate more effectively information
on the results of research so as to contribute to agricultural development in
these states. With increased responsibilities for research and extension,
the two universities will provide more institutional support for the technological
demands of the "green revolution" and thus reinforce the efforts which GOI is
making to stimulate rural development, efforts which in Bihar will be supported
by IDA through the Bihar Agricultural Markets Project.
1.03      Stated shortly, the problem is to make agricultural education,
research and extension more responsive to the needs of farmers. By linking
education, research and extension and setting up a mechanism that allows
prompt mutual feedback, the new universities - based on the Land Grant
concept tried successfully in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Mysore - will make
these activities more effective. This concept is embodied in the Assam and
Bihar Agricultural Universities Acts, which conform to the Model Act, 1/ set
up by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), an autonomous body
within the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. The universities, through their
graduates, and those who associate with them, are expected to assist state
administration, credit and marketing institutions as well as local govern-
ments to define rural problems more clearly and to find practical solutions.
1.04      The proposed project would strengthen the agricultural universi-
ties of Assam and Bihar as they assume responsibility for state-wide educa-
tion, research and extension education in agriculture, home science, veter-
inary science and other related fields. In appraising the project, the
socio-economic conditions and the existing agricultural institutions in
the two states have been taken into account. The original project, which
1/   A Model Act to establish and incorporate a university for the develop-
ment of agriculture, including animal husbandry, and allied sciences.



-2-
emphasized agricultural education, was modified during appraisal to in-
crease: (a) the emphasis on research and extension; (b) animal science
work under each faculty of agriculture; (c) the emphasis on home science;
and (d) the amount of technical assistance.
1.05      The proposed project xwould consist of:
(i)  site development, construction, furniture and equipment
for additional facilities, viz., laboratories, lecture
rooms, communal facilities, farm buildings, administra-
tive offices, boarding facilities and staff housing in
the main campuses (Jorhat in Assam and Pusa in Bihar)
and the veterinary campuses (Gauhati in Assam and Ranchi
in Bihar);
(ii)  technical assistance for university planning and develop-
ment, project implementation and staff development; and
(iii)  new computer and ancillary equipment for the computer
center of the Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics
(IARS) at Pusa, Delhi.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$19.4 million with a for-
eign exchange component of US$5.1 million.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
2.01      In terms of poptrlation the States of Assam and Bihar surpass many
of the world's independent nations. With 15 million and 57 million people
respectively, they account for 13% of India's total population and 10% of
GDP. They are among the poorest states in India with per capita income
below the national average (Assam $88, Bihar $67, India $106.
2.02      During the 1960's, GDP grew at 4.2% p.a. in Assam and 2.1% p.a.
in Bihar compared to an all-India average of 3.4% p.a. Bihar's economic
development was seriously affected by the droughts of 1965 - 1967 and by
the floods of 1971. Assam also suffers from heavy annual flooding. The
Brahmaputra River in Assam and the Ganges in Bihar are probably their main
geographic feature and the most important economic determinant, bringing
fertility to the soil and on occasion destruction to the agriculture of
these states.
2.03      Agriculture is relatively more important to Assam and Bihar than it
is to India as a whole. In both states more than 80% of the population is
dependent on agriculture. Mineral resources have been discovered in both
states but mining, manufacturing and construction still contribute only about
18% while agriculture accounts for 50%-60% of GDP. In the hilly regions of
southern Bihar are located some of India's best coal and iron deposits and
the industrial complexes established there are major growth centers.  How-
ever, there appears to be little immediate potential for interaction or com-
plementarity between the south and the almost completely agricultural and



- 3 -
more densely populated central and northern regions of the state. In Assam
the tea processing industry is the most important commercial enterprise.
2.04      The most important food crop in Assam and Bihar is rice.  Other
food crops are comparatively unimportant in Assam but in Bihar production
of wheat has increased substantially over the past four years as farmers
have responded to favorable prices and high yielding varieties. In Assam,
the major source of income i3 the 750 tea estates which cover some 180,000
ha., employ 500,000 workers and account for more than half of India's total
tea production and 20% of world production. With the exception of Assam's
tea, agriculture in both states is characterized by a low degree of commer-
cialization. It is estimated that only 20% of Bihar's annual agricultural
production is marketed. Livestock production in Assam and Bihar is still
an undeveloped industry in s?ite of the very large livestock population in
both states. The lack of surplus production that could be used for animal
feed and the resistance to clw slaughter has retarded the expansion and im-
provement of cattle production. In both states, breeding programs to in-
crease milk production appear to be the greatest development possibility
in the short run.
2.05      The remarkable agricultural progress in some regions of India,
particularly in Punjab and Haryana States, has demonstrated development
potentials for agriculture previously considered possible only for the in-
dustrial sector.  However, the following statistics indicate how much pro-
ductivity in Assam and Bihar lags behind the Punjab and all-India averages.
Yield - kg per ha.
(1970-71)
Assam       Bihar        Punjab      All-India
Rice              1,014        868         1,725        1,134
Wheat               /1          969        2,215        1,299
/1   Wheat production in Assam is insignificant.
During the 1960's the annual increase in income from agriculture averaged
only 1.9% in Assam and 0.5% in Bihar. Bihar has long been a deficit state
in food grain production and Assam, while producing a surplus, registered
the smallest increase in yields per ha. of any state in India during the
1960's. Hence, both states give high priority to increased agricultural
production, especially food grains, to be achieved by the use of modern
farming methods.
2.06      Primary and secondary school enrollment ratios in Assam and Bihar
fall substantially below the all-India averages but these are not necessarily
reliable indicators of the rural population's capacity or motivation to use
new farming technology. The literacy rate in the Punjab, for example, was
lower in 1961 than the all-India average but this has not precluded agri-
cultural development surpassing that of all other Indian states. Reports
throughout India indicate that farmers are extremely responsive to the



-4-
introduction of improved farming methods when they have access to the neces-
sary inputs and reasonable economic incentives.
2.07      In terms of material resources for agriculture, Assam and Bihar
both possess rich, flood-fed soils in their plains areas but are deficient
in most of the other inputs - seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, farm machinery,
marketing infrastructure, credit and, above all, a controlled water supply.
Annual floods, for example, make extremely difficult the control of water
which is essential to the effective use of the new high-yielding variety
seeds.
2.08      The main limiting factors in developing modern agricultural tech-
nology in Assam and Bihar have been structural deficiencies in agricultural
research and extension and an inadequate number of well-trained research and
extension specialists. Research programs have concentrated on basic studies
related to specific commodities, usually export crops; little attention has
been given to food grains, diversified cropping systems, livestock improve-
ment and rural home economics. Agricultural extension has been an adminis-
trative-regulatory service rather than a farmer training service: extension
workers are insufficiently trained and are not well informed on modern
technology. The results of research are not properly communicated to the
farmers and the problems of the rural community do not reach the research
centers.
2.09      While the extreme pressures of population on limited natural re-
sources and difficulties arising out of the land tenure system pose problems
for long-term economic development in Assam and Bihar, there are substantial
gains to be achieved in the short run through the application of improved
technology and increased inputs.  As these gains are realized, more sophis-
ticated refinements in technology and better trained manpower, from the
farmer to the research scientist, become increasingly important in these
states.  In recent years ICAR has assisted the major agricultural universities
in the country to raise the quality of their graduates and initiate problem-
oriented, inter-disciplinary research programs. The Assam and Bihar uni-
versities have only recently been established and need assistance for staff
and facilities development that will enable them to meet the needs of the
two states.
III. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING IN AGRICULTURE
Center-State Institutions
3.01      Agricultural development and education are the responsibility of
state governments but the Center government assists where inter-state or
inter-regional coordination is needed and where stimulation of agricultural
and educational activities is required. In 1966, it intensified its par-
ticipation in the state's rural development by supporting programs to: (a)
increase the propagation of high-yielding crop varieties; (b) improve the
availability of agricultural inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers, plant
protection, farm machinery, irrigation facilities and agricultural credit);



and (c) improve storage, transport and marketing facilities. With these
programs, new emphasis was laid on the role of agricultural technology as
a major factor in agricultural production.
3.02      The state institutions responsible for agricultural research, extension
and education, had for long worked in isolation from each other. The agricultural
research institutes administered by the Union Department of Agriculture, either
directly or through the various Commodity Communities, suffered from inadequate
practical orientation, coordination, qualified personnel and budget allocations.
To improve this situation, ICAR was reorganized in 1966 to coordinate and
strengthen programs of agricultural research throughout the country and to place
greater emphasis on producticn-oriented research. Under this program, a few
selected centers in the country are being consolidated and each project is
operated in collaboration with the agricultural universities and state departments
of agriculture and animal husbandry.
3.03      The organization of research at state level is conducted by the
state departments of agriculture and animal husbandry and by the colleges
of agriculture and veterinary science. Usually, there is no coordinating
body and the fragmented approach results in waste of scarce resources.
Research objectives are determined by the immediate needs of the State
departments or by college teaching requirements rather than by carefully
designed long-term plans to tleet rural needs.
3.04      Agricultural extension services are organized on a country-wide
basis under the Community Development Program. Within each state, the pro-
gram is implemented by Blocks, each comprising 100 to 130 villages. Contact
with the farmer is achieved I:hrough the Village Level Worker (VLW) who is
in charge of one or more vilLages.  The program is designed to serve all
the needs of the village, including health, sanitation, family planning,
cottage industries and agriculltural development.  Consequently, the VLW's
activities are so manifold that he has little opportunity to give special
attention to agricultural needs. The VLW's are trained at centers in a two-year
diploma program. They are suipported by a limited number of technical specialists
at the Block level but they are poorly supplied with materials and equipment.
The flow of findings from tha research programs to the VLWs has been in general
inadequate due to'deficienciss in organization and a shortage of qualified
personnel and facilities.
3.05      Farmer's training is now being given a new orientation consistent
with the requirements of agricultural technology. The three main components
of the program included in the Fourth Plan are:  (i) demonstrations organized
by agricultural scientists drawn from agricultural universities and research
stations assisted by extension staff; (ii) dissemination of agricultural
information through various media such as radio broadcasts, films and posters;
and (iii) formation of farmers' discussion groups and improved communication
between the farmers' groups on the one hand and scientists and agricultural
officers on the other. Clearly, the implementation of this program depends
on personnel trained in new techniques and farm practices.



-6-
3.06      Agricultural education institutions at the college and secondary
level were administered and supported by the individual states. Each state
usually maintained several agricultural and veterinary colleges as independ-
ent units under its Department of Agriculture and Department of Animal
Husbandry but affiliated to traditional universities for degree-granting
purposes.  The defects of this arrangement included isolation from the rural
community and irrelevance of their teaching and research programs, shortage
of qualified staff, inadequate physical facilities and lack of adequate links
with other agencies.
3.07      Because of the situation described above, higher agricultural
education in India received considerable attention during the 1960's when
it was decided to establish at least one major agricultural university in
each 8tate, with responsibility for the development of agriculture through
instruction, research and extension education, based on the example of the U.S.
land-grant college. With substantial financial support from the Center government
through ICAR, the states were encouraged to integrate their various colleges
of agriculture and veterinary science within the new agricultural university.
State-wide agricultural research is transferred to the university which will
also be responsible for agricultural education at all levels and for dissemi-
nating the findings of research to farmers through extension education.
3.08      At present, some 16 agricultural universities have been established in
15 States. Some of them have been operating for 10 years (Uttar Pradesh,
Punjab, Orissa and Rajastan) and are better staffed and equipped. Others
are relatively new (Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Mysore, West
Bengal) and are not yet fully staffed and equipped. The more recently
created agricultural universities (Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra
and Tamil Nadu) are still in the preliminary stages of development. Jammu
and Kashmir is the only state where enactment of an agricultural universi-
ty law is still pending.
3.09      Some of the well established agricultural universities, with as-
sistance of US AID and other organizations, have already made important
contributions to agricultural development and have gained prestige and pub-
lic confidence. Their administration has been improved; their curricula and
examination systems, teaching and research methods have been modernized
and new concepts of education, research and extension to serve the rural
community have been adopted. In Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Mysore, the
integration of education, research and extension has been particularly
successful, resulting in discoveries of significant importance and in im-
proved agricultural education at all levels.
3.10      Other agricultural services to farmers are provided through various
Center-State arrangements. The National Seed Corporation supplies foundation
seed to State Seed Corporations, which in turn multiply and distribute them
to farmers. The State Agro-Industries Development Corporations distribute
farm equipment, fertilizers and pesticides. The nationalized commercial
banks, the State Bank of India, the State cooperative land development
banks, and the Agricultural Re-finance Corporation are the main sources
of credit. Marketing assistance is rendered in the form of guaranteed
prices for certain commodities by the Central Food Corporation and the



- 7 -
State Food Departments. The Central Directorate of Marketing and Inspec-
tion is in charge of grading and standardizing on agricultural commodities
and regulating markets and marketing practices. The services rendered by
State and Center Agencies would benefit from improved coordination and the
agricultural universities should play an important role in providing them
with well trained staff and bringing them together in a system of services
supporting agricultural development.
Financial Resources of Agricultural Universities
3.11       The agricultural universities are financed mainly by grants from
tne State governments and from the Center government through ICAR.  Center
and State grants are made under two main headings - non-Plan and Plan grants.
The non-Plan budget includes mcstly recurrent expenditure and the provision
each year is nearly automatic. This budget increases annually to provide
for inflation and salary adjustments. The Plan budget includes both capi-
tal and recurrent expenditures and covers new or expanding programs developed
during the Plan period. After a program has been in the Plan budget for
more than five years it is absorbed into the non-Plan budget.
3.12       In Bihar and Assam, l:he state grants are based on a budget prepared
by the Vice-Chancellor and approved by the university boards of management
wihich include state and university officials, members of the legislature and
private citizens. Officials in these two states have indicated that they
are moving away from the present system of scheme-by-scheme allocation to-
ward a block grant system which should improve long-term planning by the
universities.
3.13       In Assam and Bihar the State grants to the agricultural univer-
sities in 1971-72 were Rs 4.53 million and Rs 21.50 million respectively.
These amounts represent 6.6% and 11.8% of the respective combined budgets
of the Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and 0.34% and 0.39%
of the respective total state budgets (Annex 1).  The Assam State plan al-
location to the agricultural university for 1971-72 was Rs 1.5 million or
2.1% of the State plan allocation for all agriculture and allied activities.
For Bihar the relevant figure 'gas Rs 3.74 million or 2.7%. These amounts
appear to be insufficient for the proper functioning of the universities.
3.14       ICAR's total budget during the Fourth Plan period (1969-1974) is
Rs 850 million of 7% of the total Central Plan Budget for agriculture and
allied activities (Annex 2). Approximately Rs 260 million or 30% of ICAR's
Plan budget is allocated to the universities program during 1969-1974.
ICAR's total budget on 1971-72 was Rs 252 million of which Rs 60.3 million
was allocated to agricultural university development (Annex 2); of this sum
the Assam Agricultural University received Rs 0.74 million and the Bihar
Agricultural University Rs 1.67 million (Annex 3).



- 8 -
IV. NEED FOR THE PROJECT
4.01      After the threat of famine of the mid-1960's, self-sufficiency
in food grain production became one of the Fourth Plan's highest priorities
and the proportion of public sector resources allocated to agriculture and
allied sectors has been increased by 35%.
4.02      The Indian strategy for agricultural development is centered on
the widespread adoption of the new high yielding varieties of food grains
and the efficient application of the required inputs, e.g., fertilizer,
pesticides and irrigation. Success of this strategy depends inter alia upon
the development of confidence among the farmers that the system of services
supporting such development will be reliable and efficient. In the more tradi-
tional areas of India such as Assam and Bihar they are particularly wary
of assuming risks that depend heavily on governmental performance and in-
novative technology has therefore been slow in coming to these areas.
4.03      The government agencies that supply the needed services in Assam
and Bihar have not yet developed the coordination and service orientation
necessary to stimulate agricultural development whereas the leadership at
both Center and state levels is eager to make the agricultural infrastruc-
ture more dynamic.
4.04      It has been demonstrated in other states of India, such as Punjab,
Uttar Pradesh and Mysore, that the new type of agricultural university can
contribute to rural development by:
(a) producing graduates who have practical training and who are
motivated to enter the private and government sectors to pro-
mote rural development;
(b)  conductIng problem-oriented, applied research with high potential
for agricultural development and improvement of living conditions
in rural areas;
(c) integrating research, education and extension activities so that
problems in agriculture and rural life are channelled back to
research and education centers and the solutions, advice and
assistance flow out to the farmers and rural families; and
(d) raising the level of official and public awareness as to the
necessary preconditions for rural development (physical, economic,
institutional and social).
The success of these universities in other states has led ICAR to encourage
similar developments in Assam and Bihar.
Assam
4.05      At present, agricultural research falls under:



- 9 -
(a) the State Department of Agriculture, which operates regional
research stations at Jorhat, Nowgong and Gauhati and several
field stations;
(b) the State Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary,
which operates a central livestock research station at
Gauhati, also with 3everal specialized branches; and
(c) the College of Agriculture at Jorhat and the College of
Veterinary Science at Gauhati which carry out some re-
search, mainly for teaching purposes.
These institutions work in isolation. Field stations and laboratories are
poorly equipped. The results of research rarely flow to the rural communi-
ty due to poor liaison with the extension service nor do they reach the col-
leges to benefit the education programs.
4.06      Extension is provided through the Community Development programs
of the Assam Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science. At the field level, the Department of Agriculture has one extension
officer in each Block - in intensive programs there are two officers - assisted
by agricultural demonstrators, VLWs and home science extensionists. Animal
husbandry also has a small number of extension agents. The staff will increase
during the Fourth Plan to cope with expanded responsibilities, especially in
relation to high-yielding variety programs but, in general, the extension work
of these officers is limited by the burden of other responsibilities given
to them by the Block authorities and by the insufficient number of subject
matter specialists to assist them.
4.07      Agricultural education below university level is the responsibil-
ity of the State Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry which op-
erate training centers for Vl.Ws, schools for veterinary field assistants,
farmers training centers and farm machinery training centers. At the higher
level, until the creation of the Assam Agricultural University, the Assam
Agricultural College at JorhaLt, was administered by the State Department of
Agriculture and was affiliated with Dibrugarh University for degree-granting
purposes. The Assam Veterinary College at Gauhati was under the State Department
of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science and was affiliated with Gauhati
University. This organization presented serious deficiencies: (a) lack of close
contacts with the rural community and the research stations so that curricula
were not related to the needs of the country and did not incorporate the results
of the research; (b) low academic standards; (c) shortage of qualified staff;
(d) inadequate physical faciLities and equipment; and (e) inadequate financial
support.
4.08      To overcome these shortcomings, the Assam Agricultural University
Act of 1968 established the lJniversity with the provision that the Assam
Agricultural College at Jorhat and the Assam Veterinary College at Gauhati
will become constituent units of the University. The Act is now in the
process of implementation. The headquarters and the main campus of the
University are located at the 163 ha. site at the former Jorhat College of



- 10 -
Agriculture. The faculties of agriculture, home science and basic sciences
and humanities of the new university will be located at the main campus
while the faculty of veterinary science will be developed on the existing
campus of the former Gauhati Veterinary College. The main agricultural
research station at Jorhat and the other regional research stations have
been or are being transferred to the University. A few Blocks have been
transferred to the University for research on extension education.
4.09      The university is now organizing itself to serve the rural com-
munity, through integrated education, research and extension. The organiza-
tional structure of the University is taking shape based on strong subject
matter departments in charge of education, research and extension. Close
links have been established with the State Departments of Agriculture and
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science and with other agricultural institu-
tions in the public and private sectors. But the resources of the University
are inadequate and thiere is an urgent need for more and better qualified staff,
buildings, furniture and equipment.
Bihar
4.10      In Bihar, the majority of the agricultural services are performed
by the State Government and the newly formed Rajendra Agricultural Univer-
sity. The Government is responsible for extension and development programs
of agriculture and veterinary services, certain sub-degree level education,
land reform and marketing services. The university is now responsible for
state-wide degree level agricultural education, research and extension educa-
tion, including extension services around the various university campuses.
Rural development is hampered, however, by an inadequate supply of credit,
production inputs and marketing facilities at the village level. Although
the various government services are more developed than in Assam, they are
still inadequate to stimulate widespread adoption of new technology.
4.11      Bihar has four regional agricultural research institutes, located
at Patna, Dholi, Ranchi and Sabour, representing the four agro-climatic re-
gions of the State. A number of specialized sub-stations have been estab-
lished within each region to deal with specific commodities. One such in-
stitute is located at Pusa. Animal husbandry research is undertaken at Patna
and Ranchi. The responsibility for research was transferred to the Agri-
cultural University in February, 1971. In general, the research institu-
tions are short of facilities and well-qualified personnel. Further, there
has been insufficient flow of information to and from extension services and
colleges of agriculture and veterinary science.
4.12      Agricultural extension is organized under the State Departments
of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Its main problems relate to: (a)
separate organizations for agriculture and animal husbandry extension work
and for intensive agricultural programs; (b) limited knowledge of modern
technology and failure to communicate it to farmers; (c) time spent in admin-
istration and regulatory work. Many of these deficiencies result from fi-
nancial constraints and slhortages of qualified personnel and physical facil-
i tj i  .



- 1 1 -
4.13      Agricultural educal:ion falls into three categories:  (a) higher
education, carried out by the three agricultural colleges of Dholi, Sabour
and Ranchi and the two veterLnary colleges at Patna and Ranchi, all of which
are now being incorporated into the Agricultural University; (b) post-
secondary education and VLW extension training administered by the State
Departments of Agriculture a-d Animal Husbandry; and (c) informal educa-
tion, for practicing farmers, agricultural workers, government officials
and others carried out by the extension education units of the agricultural
university.
4.14      The agricultural and veterinary colleges were formerly administered
by the State Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry but were af-
filiated with universities as shown below:
Department of Agriculture:
Agricultural College, Sabour           Bhagalpur University
Agricultural College, Ranchi           Ranchi University
Agricultural College, Dholi            Bihar University
Department of Aninmal Husbandry:
Veterinary College, Patna              Magadh UJniversity
Veterinary College, Ranchi             Ranchi University
Little coordination existed between the state colleges and the research
institutes. The colleges were isolated from the rural comamunity; curricula
were irrelevant to the country's needs and did not reflect the results of
research which, however, was equally irrelevant to rural needs. This re-
sulted in poor teaching and low quality graduates unable to find employment
in spite of the need for qualified personnel. As a consequence, the col-
leges did not resist increasing pressure for post-graduate studies.
4.15      The Rajendra Agricultural University was established in 1970 with
the main objective of assisting rural development through an integrated sys-
tem of education, research and extension in agriculture and related fields
including veterinary science and home science. The main campus of the
University is located at Pusa where various research institutions and as-
sociated farms exist in an area of diversified farming and high agricul-
ture potential. The veterinary campus of the University is located at
Ranchi on the campus of the former veterinary college. The three agricul-
tural colleges at Sabour, Panchi and Dholi, and the two veterinary colleges
at Patna and Ranchi are now constituent colleges of the University. State
agricultural and animal husbandry research institutions and extension train-
ing centers have been transferred to the University. Extension services
agencies in the districts aLdjacent to the University campus have also been
transferred to the University for research and demonstration purposes.
4.16      The new universil:y is being developed under the basic principles
established by ICAR for institutions of this kind in India. The Vice-Chan-
cellor has been appointed and the university structure, based on subject
matter departments in charge of education, research and extension, is being



- 12 -
developed. The former regional research institutes, however, are being con-
verted into specialized, state-wide research institutes. Some duplication
may arise with the subject matter departments of the university but can be
avoided if the research institutes are only administrative and coordinating
units employing the faculty staff of the relevant subject matter departments.
Good liaison has been established between the university and the State Departments
of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry and will be extended to other agricultural
institutions in the public and private sectors.
4.17      The resources of the university are inadequate in terms of qual-
ified personnel, physical facilities, furniture and equipment, and there is
an urgent need for funds to develop the main campus at Pusa and the veter-
inary campus at Ranchi. The proposed project would assist with additional
buildings, furniture and equipment and improve the faculty staff at both
sites.
Manpower and Employment
4.13      Agricultural and veterinary graduates in Assam and Bihar have
hitherto been provided by the various colleges in each state. In Assam,
the demand for qualified manpower has increased rapidly (Annex 4) in re-
cent years with the emphasis given to agricultural development in this
state. In Bihar, after a rapid increase of demand for agricultural and
veterinary graduates in the early 1960's, it fell after 1968 because of
State Government budgetary constraints. The result has been unemployment
among graduates in Bihar while in Assam all graduates can find employment.
In both states, however, there is a shortage of well-trained personnel for
specialized fields (para. 2.08). In Bihar, many graduates are occupying
non-graduate posts while, at the same time, many non-graduates (appointed
in the early 1960's) are at present occupying graduate posts. In Bihar,
the low quality of the undergraduate programs together with unemployment
of graduates in recent years has resulted in high enrollments in post-
graduate studies (Annex 5) with the graduates seeking better qualifications
for which there is a real demand.
4.19      With the aid of the proposed project, the undergraduate and grad-
uate programs in agriculture, veterinary science and home science are expected
to provide the following annual output:
Graduates in                      Assam         Bihar
- Agriculture                       100           220
- Veterinary Science                 75           90
- Home Science                       50           50
which can be expanded, when required, at a relatively low cost.
4.20      The annual job opportunities for graduates (Annex 4) during 1972-
1980, limited by financial constraints, especially in Bihar, are estimatedl
as follows:



- 13 -
Graduates in                      Assam         Bihar
Agriculture                         100           272
Veterinary Science                   44            90
Home Science                         36            61
Long-term requirements, however, are expected to be higher due to the in-
troduction of new agricultural technology, subsistence changing to commer-
cial agriculture, increased commercialization and new activities in the
fields of credit, marketing, agro-business, agro-industries, in the public
and private sectors. In addition, to the extent that the agricultural uni-
versities achieve higher edt.cational, research and extension education
standards--fostering complementary changes in other areas of rural devel-
opment--they will help to open employment opportunities for their graduates.
4.21      Agricultural university graduates will also play an important
role in developing agricultural education at lower levels. In general, the
formal education system has an urban and academic bias that makes it a poor
instrument for fostering rural development while the system of non-formal
education is not sufficient:Ly developed to have a major impact. As from
1972, compulsory subjects in agriculture and home science are being intro-
duced from grade VIII in secondary schools under the State Department of
Education. Informal agricuLtural training under the State Departments of
Agriculture and Animal Husbandry is mainly concentrated in VLWs training
centers and veterinary field assistant training centers.
4.22      In view, however, of present limits to employment opportunities,
the Assam Agricultural University and the Rajendra Agricultural University
will not substantially increase their numbers of undergraduates (Annex 5)
but will expand only as the requirements for technical manpower in agriculture,
veterinary and home science increase.
4.23      With little or no increase in the output of graduates from the
two universities, the main impact of the proposed project will lie in the
higher quality of its graduates and in the effect of the improved univer-
sities on research and extension. With state-wide, multi-disciplinary,
applied research programs in agriculture and animal husbanary, expanded
extension programs arising from better-trained extension workers and the
direct extension work adjacent to the university campuses, there should
be a significant increase in the use of advanced agricultural technology
in the two states.
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      Assam and Bihar have already passed the necessary legislation to
establish the new agricultural universities. They now need additional physi-
cal facilities to implemenl: the new instructional programs and initiate new
activities in research and extension education. It is proposed that IDA



- 14 -
should assist this development by providing additional facilities and tech-
nical expertise.
5.02      The proposed project would help to finance:
(i) construction, furniture and equipment for the following
additional facilities at Assam and Rajendra (Bihar) Agri-
cultural Universities:
Assam Agric. University   Rajendra Agric. University
Main     Veterinary        Main         Veterinary
Campus      Campus         Campus           Campus
(Jorhat)    (Gauhati)        (Pusa)         (Ranchi)
(places)    (places)       (places)         (places)
Teaching and research
laboratories for the
Faculties of:
Basic Sciences               260          -              260
Agriculture                  490           -             790
Home Science                  60           -              60
Veterinary Science            -          370             -                -
Lecture rooms                  245           90            765              -
Seminar rooms                  175           30            225              -
Extension center               n.a. /1       -             n.a.             -
Library                        n.a.          -             n.a.             -
Veterinary clinic               -          n.a.                            n.a.
Administration offices         n.a.         n.a.           n.a.
(expansion)
Infirmary                      n.a.          -            n.a.
Cafeteria                      400          200            400
Guest house                     20           -              20
Farm buildings                 n.a.        n.a.            n.a.            n.a.
(expansion)
Staff houses                    50           15            115              20
Student boarding               400          150            600
/1   n.a. = not applicable.
(ii)  a total of 26 man-years of specialists' services and
118 man-years of fellowships for Assam and Rajendra
(Bihar) Agricultural Universities; and
(iii)  equipment to increase the service capacity of the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS)
computer center at Pusa, Delhi.



- 15 -
5.03      The Assam Agricultural University has been formed from the agri-
cultural college at Jorhat and the veterinary college at Gauhati, together
with a number of research stations. Its main campus with all faculties, ex-
cept veterinary science which would remain at Gauhati, would be located at
Jorhat. The Rajendra (Bihar) Agricultural University, comprising the agri-
cultural colleges at Dholi, Ranchi and Sabour, the veterinary colleges at
Patna and Ranchi and research stations, would have its main campus at Pusa.
Veterinary Science would remain at Ranchi. The proposed project would assist
the two agricultural universities to develop and rationalize their operations
around a single administration, in charge of state-wide education, research
and extension education programs in agriculture and related fields. The
existing colleges and research stations would form part of that organiza-
tion. Existing faculties would be expanded and improved and new faculties
would be established.
5.04      The Faculties of Agriculture at the main campuses at Jorhat and
Pusa would be expanded and strengthened. In addition to the traditional
fields of soil science, plant science, plant protection and agricultural
economics, a department of animal science, emphasizing livestock breeding,
feeding and management, would be added. They would also conduct programs
in agricultural engineering, extension education and food technology. There
would be close cooperation with other faculties, such as the Faculty of Home
Science on food technology prcgrams, with the Veterinary Faculty on animal
research and with both on extension education.
5.05      A new Faculty of Basic Sciences and Humanities would be developed
at each of the main campuses at Jorhat and Pusa to provide background and
supporting courses for agricultural sciences and related fields. The Facul-
ty would also participate in the applied research programs of the university.
5.06      A new Faculty of Homie Science would be developed at each of the
main campuses at Jorhat and PuLsa.  The significance of home science to rural
development has not fully beenL recognized in Assam and Bihar and to improve
family life among the rural population, posts should be created for home
scientists in the extension service, in the secondary schools, in the schools
for primary teachers, and in aLpplied nutrition programs. In time, enterprises
involved in the use of agricultural products will see the potential contribu-
tion of home scientists, and research programs in agriculture and public
health may utilize the facilil:ies of home science. The home science education
programs comprising family development, food and nutrition, clothing and related
arts, and family environment, would be designed to prepare the graduates to
serve the needs of the rural Iamilies and improve their living conditions
raising, at the same time, the status of the rural homemaker. The research
programs would deal with the utilization of agricultural products for the
well-being of the people. They would serve food industries as well as the
farms. Extension activities would include information and communication pro-
grams for the rural eommunity, training of home science extensionists and
subject matter extension specialists working at university and district levels.
5.07      The Faculties of Ve:erinary Science at Gauhati and Ranchi would be
expanded and improved. Curricula would continue to reflect the dual functions
of veterinary services by providing veterinary medical education related to



- 16 -
the diagnosis, treatment, control and prevention of animal diseases, and in-
struction in animal breeding, feeding and management. The faculties will
coordinate their programs with the department of animal science at each of
the agricultural faculties.
5.08      Within the University, a limited number of strong subject matter
departments would be the basic academic units, responsible for the teaching,
research and extension education programs. Each university would also undertake
extension work in a limited area. Each faculty staff member would be appointed
to the relevant department, irrespective of whether he is stationed at the
main campus or at other sites. The department head would be responsible to
the faculty dean for instructional programs and to the directors of research
and extension for their respective programs.
5.09      Estimates of faculty staff requirements (Annex 6) are made on the
bases of the tripartite functions of teaching, research and extension educa-
tion. At present, the teaching staff of the agriculture and veterinary
science faculties devote almost all their time to under-graduate teaching
and have limited opportunities for extension work, research or graduate teach-
ing while the research staff has little or no opportunity for teaching and
extension. During the implementation of the project, the division between
teaching and research staff would be abolished and faculty staff would
be grouped in subject matter departments to perform all three functions.
Transfer of personnel, hiring of additional and upgrading existing staff will
occur as required to establish strong, integrated faculties at the main and
veterinary campuses.
5.10      Some organizational problems in both universities have yet to be
resolved. The transfer of certain research units from the State departments
to the Assam Agricultural University is delayed and the creation of "research
institutes" within Rajendra (Bihar) Agricultural University may duplicate the
functions of some university departments. Assurances were given during nego-
tiations, that: (i) the transfer of the research institutions to the Assam
Agricultural University will be accomplished within six months from the date
of the Credit Agreement; and (ii) the Rajendra Agricultural University will
not contain institutes or other organizations duplicating university subject
matter departments.
5.11      Neither Assam nor Bihar has a comprehensive plan for its univer-
sity program. The development of such plans in each state is important to
ensure the efficient utilization of existing personnel, physical facilities
and financial resources and assurances were given during negotiations that
a development plan for each university will be sent to the Association within
one year of signing the Credit Agreement.
Technical Assistance
5.12      Professional services are needed to:  (a) prepare an overall univer-
sity development plan; (b) foster attitudes that will increase the impact of
the university output - graduates, information and services - on agricultural
development; (c) develop instruction, research and extension programs in agri-
culture, veterinary science and home science; and (d) help in all aspects of



- 17 -
project implementation. This assistance (Annex 7) would be provided by Indian
or foreign specialists under the project and other multilateral or bilateral
schemes.
5.13      Some 16 man-years of specialists' services for university develop-
ment (8 man-years for each university including 3 mai-years of a high level
adviser to the Vice-Chancellor), and 10 man-years of architects' services
for project implementation (5 man-years for each university) are considered
essential for the success of the project and have been included in the proj-
ect cost to provide for the possibility that the GOI will not succeed in
financing them through other sources. The subject matter specialists would
be allocated to ICAR in general conformity with Annex 7 but they can be assigned
in turn to either university as the need dictates. Assurances were given during
negotiations that the home scLence specialists and the architects would be
appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association within six
months from the date of the credit agreement. The appointment of a high level
adviser to each Vice-ChancellDr as described in Annex 7, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
5.14      Faculty staff development is essential for the success of the uni-
versities, especially in Assam. The proposed project would provide for 118
man-years of fellowships (78 man-years in Assam and 40 man-years in Bihar).
The selection of fields of study, training institutions and individual staff
members would be the responsibility of the Fellowships Committee of the uni-
versity concerned. Before fellowships are awarded, the Association would be
consulted on a fellowships program to be prepared by the Committee.
Computer Center
5.15      The proposed project would increase the computer capacity of the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics (IARS) center at Pusa, Delhi,
by providing a new computer tnd ancillary equipment. The present IB>M 1620
computer was provided through a Ford Foundation grant in 1965. Its use has
increased steadily and now has reached a point where the volume of work and
the complexity of problems require a new and larger facility.
5.16      The major users of the IARS computing center include the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), the Punjab Agricultural University,
Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Uniiversity, the 28 research institutes of ICAR,
and the IARS itself. The ty'e of computing that occupies the largest amount
of time is the statistical analysis of experimental data collected by re-
searchers at IARI and the outlying research institutes. The second large
type of computation performed is the analysis of survey data, i.e., surveys
taken to assess progress of the Intensive Agricultural Development Programs,
the utilization of high yielding varieties and marketing and storage problems
connected with the "green revolution". A third important category includes
special analytical procedures requiring linear programming, multi-variate
analyses and matrix inversions. The IARS is beginning to catalog and store
research results supplied from all their clients to form a partial but useful
library of agricultural research data.



- 18 -
5.17      The computer is loaded to capacity and the ancillary services in
the Center are severely overloaded on a two-shift basis. Its use by IARI
has been limited to four hours per day in order to accommodate the demands
from other users. Evidence from IARI is that it could use considerably
more computer time now and that its requirements will increase as graduate
students and faculty learn more about using computers.
5.18      It appears that the present rate of growth in computer use will
increase in the near future which alone would justify the acquisition of
additional computer equipment. But more important than Lhe increase in vol-
ume of data processing is the change in the type of computation which is ex-
pected over the next few years. The growing intensification of agricultural
research and the ueed for better data for agricultural planning is forcing
research workers and planners to use more sophisticated analytical methods.
Individuals capable of using new techniques are increasing in number as
IARS training courses in computer technology for agricultural research workers
begin to make their impact. It is estimated that the use of the computer
will result in a 50/50 division between analysis of survey data and scientific
analysis. Most of the work carried out by IARS will be data processing with
some simple statistical analysis while most of the work for IARI and its
research institutes and for the agricultural universities will be scientific
analysis.
5.19      The proposed new computer would be a third generation type with
32,000 word core configuration. The existing work of the IBM 1620, trans-
ferred to the new third generation computer, would occupy about 100 hours
a month. The IARS is expected to provide work for an additional 100 hours
per month almost as soon as the computer is installed. At the present rate
of growth, it is estimated that the new computer would be running at full
capacity within five years of its installation. To prevent this occurring
too rapidly, access to the computer would be restricted to nominated insti-
tutions and programs would be screened before they were put on the computer.



- 19 -
Cost of the Project
5.20      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are showa in Annex 8 and summarized below:
Indian Rupees            US Dollars
(millions)              (millions)        % of
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Total
1. Assam Agricultural
University
a) Main Campus,
Jorhat           23.5    8.1   31.6    3.23    1.11  4.34    22.4
b) Veterinary
Campus, Gauhati 12.2    2.9   15.1    1.68    0.40  2.08    10.8
2. Bihar Agricultural
University
a) Main campus,
Pusa             33.3   10.3   43.6    4.58    1.41  5.99    30.9
b) Veterinary
Campus, Ranchi   5.4    3.3    8.7    0.74    0.45  1.19           6.1
3. Delhi - Computer
Center                  2.1    3.9    6.0    0.29    0.54  0.83         4.3
4.  Contingencies           27,4    8.5   35.9    3.76    1.17  4.93    25.5
Total           103.9   37.0  140.9   14.28    5.08 19.36   100.0
5.21      Construction cost estimates are based on recent costs of similar
projects in India. The average cost per m2 for the universities is estimated
at US$65; it compares well w:Lth estimated figures of US$70 in Iran (1970) and
US$65 (1970) in Thailand. Furniture and equipment cost estimates are reason-
able.



- 20 -
5.22      The distribution of costs by category of expenditure is as follows:
Indian Rupees           US Dollars
(millions)             (millions)
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Total
1.   Construction
Academic &
Communal
Facilities          27.52   1.45  28.97   3.78   0.20    3.98   20.6
Boarding              4.51   0.22   4.73   0.62   0.03    0.65    3.4
Staff Housing        10.34   0.58  10.92   1.42   0.08    1.50    7.7
Site Development    10.12   0.58  10.70   1.39   0.08    1.47    7.6
Professional
Services             6.12    -      6.12   0.84    -        0.84    4.3
Sub-Total        58.61   2.83  61.44   8.05   0.39    8.44   43.6
2.   Furniture             3.35   0.22   3.57   0.46   0.03    0.49    2.5
3.   Equipment            10.77  20.10  30.87   1.48   2.76    4.24   21.9
4.   Technical
Assistance           3.86   5.31   9.17   0.53   0.73    1.26    6.5
5.   Contingencies
Physical          8.23   2.84  11.07   1.13   0.39    1.52    7.9
Price            19.14   5.68  24.82   2.63   0.78    3.41   17.6
Total           103.96  36.98 140.94  14.28   5.08   19.36  100.0
More information on estimated costs is given in Annex 8.
5.23      Contingency allowances are shown in detail in Annex 9.  For unfore-
seen factors, 10% is added to the cost estimates of construction, professional
fees, furniture and equipment, technical assistance and 15% for site develop-
ment. Cost estimates are expected to increase as in recent years and an
additional contingency equal to 25% for local costs (based on 6% p.a.) and
20% for foreign costs (based on 5% p.a.) have been included in the project.
All contingencies amount to 25% of the project cost including contingencies,
or to 34% of total project cost excluding contingencies.
5.24      The foreign exchange component of US$5.1 million equivalent has
been calculated as follows: site development, construction and furniture,
5%; equipment, 65%; and technical assistance, 60%.



- 21 -
5.25      Import duties and other local taxes vary considerably from item to
item; they are estimated at about 10% of the total project cost. Consequent-
ly, total project cost net of~ import duties and taxes is estimated at US$17.4
million of which US$5.1 mill:Lon or 29.3% represents foreign exchange costs.
5.26      Conservative projections based on estimates of improvement in
existing activities, developmaent of new programs, salary increases and in-
flation indicate that the anniual recurrent costs of the agricultural univer-
sities for 1976-77 will be a,proximately US$1.56 million in Assam (Rs 11.4
million) and US$5.49 million in Bihar (Rs 40.0 million). These figures re-
present 123% and 72% increasas over the universities' respective 1971-72
budgets (Annex 10). In the case of Assam, discussions with State officials
and extrapolation of increases already scheduled through 1973-74 indicate
that sufficient financial support will be forthcoming. However, in the case
of Bihar, scheduled increases of State support did not appear adequate.
Since the projected increase in the university budget represents an insigni-
ficant increase in the total State agriculture and related budgets, it appears
that the shortfall is not a matter of financial capacity but of political sup-
port. Assurances of adequate State financial support have been given by the Assam
and Bihar Governments during negotiations.
Financing
5.27      The project would be financed as follows (in US$ millions):
Total Project       GOI             IDA
Cost       Contribution   Contribution
1.   Assam Agricultural Uni'er-
sity                          6.5             1.9             4.6
2.   Bihar Agricultural Uni;'er-
sity                          7.2             2.4             4.8
3.   Delhi-Computer Center            0.8             0.1             0.7
4.   Contingencies                    4.9             3.0             1.9
Total                     19.4             7.4            12.0
5.28      The GOI would coni:ribute to the project Rs 53.9 million (equivalent
to US$7.4 million). For the Fourth Plan period each agricultural university
is allocated, through ICAR,-approximately Rs 20 million. This ceiling is
fixed regardless of the source of financing and therefore the IDA credit does
not increase the amount avaLlable to each university but only reduces the
amount which the GOI must o,tain from other sources. Since disbursements
under this project will run into the Fifth Plan and, in total, will exceed
Rs 40 million, an increased commitment under the Fifth Plan is required and
to this end the GOI should provide assurances that adequate funds will be
provided under the Fifth Plan.



- 22 -
5.29      The proposed IDA credit of US$12.0 million would finance about 62%
of the estimated total project cost, equal to the estimated foreign exchange
costs and 48% of the local currency costs.
Implementation and Disbursements
5.30      The Education Division of ICAR would provide overall guidance and
supervision in project implementation and liaison with the Association. For
this purpose, the ICAR Deputy Director General for Education would be desig-
nated as central project director. In addition, a full-time project coor-
dinator would be designated by ICAR for day-to-day operations. The designa-
tion of the ICAR Deputy Director General for Education as central project
director and the naming of a full-time project coordinator at the Center
are conditions of effectiveness of the credit.
5.31      A project unit would be established at the main campus of each
university to coordinate project implementation at each university. It would
be headed by the Vice-Chancellor and would comprise a project architect and
a procurement officer. The project architect would be appointed on a full-
time basis and could be seconded from the State Public Works Department. In
addition, the project units would be provided with adequate supporting staff.
The salaries of the architects in the university units are included in the
cost of the proposed project. The establishment of project units at both
universities headed by the Vice-Chancellors and comprising a project archi-
tect and a procurement officer at each university was agreed during negotiations.
5.32      Professional Services.  The preparation of a campus master plan and
the design and supervision of civil works would be the responsibility of con-
sultant firms selected and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. India has a number of consultant firms with experience
in campus planning and design of university facilities.
5.33      Sites.  The Assam Agricultural University sites at Jorhat and
Gauhati and the Rajendra Agricultural University sites at Dholi-Pusa and
Ranchi are suitable for the planned expansion.
5.34      Procurement.  Civil works at the four campuses at Gauhati,
Jorhat, Dholi-Pusa and Ranchi are expected to require a number of contracts.
While they will be grouped whenever their nature and timing makes it reasonable
to do so, (most contracts are expected to total more than $100,000), they will
nevertheless be relatively small, unlikely to attract the interest of foreign
contractors and would not warrant the effort and expense of full international
advertising and tendering. They will be let, therefore, on the basis of com-
petitive bidding following advertisement in local and national publications.
Instructional and computer equipment expected to cost more than $100,000 will
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines for procurement. Items would be grouped to form sizeable bid
packaging for bulk purchasing. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the existing rate of customs duty, which-
ever is lower. Equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 and all furniture,
which is of uncomplicated design and of ample supply locally, will be procured



- 23 -
through all-India competitive bidding. The project unit would be responsible
for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids and awarding contracts.
Detailed master lists of furniture and equipment would be submitted for IDA review.
5.35      Maintenance.  Budgetary allocations for the maintenance of university
buildings, estimated at 1% per annum of the total building cost, have been
inadequate. Assurances have been given by the Center and State Governments
that adequate provision will be made in the future to ensure effective main-
tenance of all university buiLdings, equipment and furniture.
5.36      Disbursements.  The proposed credit of US$12.0 million would be
disbursed in 6.5 years (Annexes 11 and 12) to meet: (i) 100% of the c.i.f. price
of directly imported equipment and furniture and of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured furniture and equipment; (ii) 60% of total cost of civil
works and professional services; and (iii) 100% of total costs of technical
assistance. Savings in any category would be available to cover cost overruns
in other categories.
VI. AGREEIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiationEs, agreement was reached on the following points:
(i) the transfer of appropriate research institutions from
State departments i:o the Assam Agricultural University
and the organization of the Rajendra (Bihar) Agricultural
University (para 5.10);
(ii) the provision of a development plan by each university
(para 5.11);
(iii) the provision of adequate financial support to its
agricultural university by each State Government
(para 5.26).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit are the appoint-
ment of a high level adviser to each Vice-Chancellor, the designation of the
ICAR Deputy Director Genera]. for Education as central project director and
the naming of a full-time pl-oject coordinator at the Center and the establish-
ment of project units at boi:h universities (paras 5.13, 5.30 and 5.31).
6.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$12 million to the Government of India for a period of 50 years including
a grace period of 10 years.






2-222222   2                                               2-2-2-2-222-2-22-
22*2-22   122   022-2
2222      22-                      2-.
2-2222-2-22. '222222  2-22  2272-2--
22-
2-                                                                 22-'2-2-22'22
2-                             ''''''<"%
1.2                                                             .222-222'212
2-             2               2-2-2'2222'
22                                           2-  .g
'2                                        2 222
2-               -
227 222-22-
-2t%'-?frt2-s?0            -'--'--'2-,.2- 222-22-2-2-2-2
2-
2.,    2-222-2-222-2-2-      2-"r2-         2-  2-2  22-2-22-22-O;2-2-2-V2-Pj2-2-         2 2       2-
2-2 I2-2-2-2-2227%2-2- '''o-A 22W  ,-,.. -2-
'2-2-22-2-'222-2-2--O2-2-22-2-22,.
2-i    ''       -                                            '1.'2                    2  '2-
2
2-
-i      Ii
-                                                        . -   . - - -                                       22
-                                         2;
-.                                                    -                            2.,..-,                        22
-                -                           -   -        -   -                 -    -                       2-2
1.2-
2-  22.
22-2- 2             -     - - --,.. - - - - - -.'. --------   -                              -     - -   - - -   - - - -. - - - - - -
'22 27
2-2- 22-    2-22    2-   2-2-22-2-222-2-2-2-2-22-  - - -   -       -                                    - - -       - - - -          -
x                                '22$
2-2-2-2-2-2-2                              '"          o'   22
02-2
2
12 1    2- 2-2-2-,.:                      2--                                                       .,..,. . .2-2 2-2-2-2-2-
--           - - -,.                      -       -                  8 22
I
;,..,.. 2 -: : -,. 2-2-2- ,.2-2-2222-2,.2-
2-
-II






I N D I A
Assam State Government and Agricultural University - Finance
1965/66 - 1976/77
(Millions Rupees)
1965/66          1971/72       Annual Increase      1976/77      Annual Increase
(Actual)         (Budget)      1965/66-1971/72   (estimate)    1971/72-1976/77
University Recurrent Expenditure         -               5.10                                  11.42        17.5%
State Grant to University (1)           1.77 (est.)      4.53              17.0%             10.15           17.5%
Department of Agriculture              50.72            48.26              - (2)             81.31           11.0X (3)
Department of Animal Husbandry          8.67            20.67              15.6% (2)         34.83           11.0% (3)
Department of Education               123.67           259.42              13.1% (2)          N.A.            N.A.
Total State Budget                    810.00         1,295.75               8.2% (2)      2,183.34           11.0% (3)
State Domestic Product              5,609.00         9,524.00 (est.)        9.2%         16,048.00           11.0% (3)
Notes: (1) To obtain an estimate of State grants to the constituent colleges prior to the establishment of
the University (1968), the budgets of all transferred programs are used.
(2) The State budget figures for 1965/66 and 1971/72 are not comparable because part of Assam
has been reorganized as a new State. The Department of Agriculture budget is also not comparable
because a number of functions have been transferred to independent State corporations.
(3) These increases are based on an assumption of 5% real increase in State domestic product and 6% annual
inflation.
Source: Assam Agricultural University, State departments of: Animal Husbandrys Finance, and Economics
and Statistics.
February 7, 1972



I N D I A
Bihar State Government and Agricultural Univeriy-  iac
1965/66 - 1976/77
(Millions Rupees)
i965/66         1971/72       Annual Increase       1976/77     Annual Increase
(Actual)         (Budget)     1965/66-1971/72   (estimate)    1971/72-1976/77
University Recurrent Expenditure           -              23.23               -                39.93           11.5%
State Grant to University (1)         6.64                21.50             21.6%              36.98           11.5%
Department of Agriculture            89.00 (est.)       140.00               8.1%             225.40           10.0% (2)
Department of Animal Husbandry       22.13 (est.)        42.37             11.4%               68.21           10.0% (2)
Department of Education             195.73               521.00             17.7%              N.A.             N.A.
Total State Budget                3,943.30            5,383.47               5.3%           8,667.38           10.0% (2)
State Domestic Product           16,466.60           27,277.20(est.)         8.8%         43,916.30            10.0% (2)
Notes: (1) To obtain an estimate of State grants to University prior to the establishment of the University(1970),
the budgets of all transferred programs are used.
(2) These increases are based on an assumption of 4% real increase in State domestic product and
6% annual inflation.
Source: Rajendra Agricultural University, State Department of Finance, State Planning Department.
February 7, 1972
IW >



I N D I A
Finances - ICAR,Center, Public Sector
1961-1974
(Millions Rupees)
3rd Plan    4th Plan
1961-66     1969-74    1968-69    1969-70       1970-71    1971-72   1972-73   1973-74
ICAR University Develop-             -           257.4      24.9         24.2        40.2       60.3       66.3      66.4
uient Program
(Assam)        -            (20.0)      -          (0.2)        (0.9)      (1.0)      (8.9)     (9.0)
(Bihar)                     (20.0)      -           -           (1.0)      (1.0)      (9.0)     (9.0)
!CAi Plan Budget - Total          N.A.           850.0      78.4         80.3       105.4      155.3      229.6     279.4
Cn+ter PI-n-    e                1.250.0      12,310.0      N.A.        N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Agriculture and Allied
Center Plan Budget - Total      40,000.0      88,707.0      N.A.        N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Public Sector Plan Budget -    10,890.0       27,280.0      N.A.     2,930.0      4,050.0       N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Agriculture and Allied(l)
Public Sector Plan Budget -    85,730.0    159,020.0        N.A.    22,705.0    28,222.0        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Total
ICAR  Total Budget                   -            -        156.6        166.o       195.7      251.7      331.3     386.4
Center Total Budget                 -             -         N.A.    31,400.0    34,120.0        N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
Public Sector Total Budget          -             -         N.A.    66,490.0    69,850.0        N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
Notes:  (1)  Public Sector includes all expenditures by the Center and State governments.
uI
30-)rCe: TC._H, Miri4stry ofl Agr.o4 clA. ev      >  






I N D I A
Assam Agricultural University (1)
Sources of Income for Current and Capital Expenditures
1965/66 - 1973/74
(Millions Rupees)
1965-66      1969-70     1971-72          1972-73          1973-74
State Contribution           1.57 (est.)       3.67    4.53   (80%)    6.80 (est.)       8.60 (eat.)
Plan                      0.79 (eat.)       1.25    1.50            3.50              5.o0
Non-Plan                  0.78 (est.)       2.42    3.03            3.30              3.60
University Receipts          0.10 (est.)       0.28    0.37    (7%)    o.41 (est.)       0.46 (est.)
ICAR     Contribution (2)     -                 -      0.74   (13%)    0.97 (est.)       1.27 (eat.)
Total UniversiT Income       1.67 (est.)       3.95    5.64  (100%)    8.18 (eat.)      10.33 (eat.)
Notes:  (1) To obtain an estimate of university income. prior to the establishment of the university (1968),
estieates- of budgets of all programs which were later transferred were used.
(2) ICAR      expenditure  does not include  IGAR   assistance under its university
development program which is almost all capital expenditure and is included in the State
Contribution (Plan).
Source: Assam Agricultural University
February 7, 1972
(D1q
I-0



I N D I A
Rajendra (Bihar) Agricultural University (1)
Sources of Income for    rent an/ Capital Expenditures
1965F6 -19    74
(Millions Rupees)
1965-66   1969-70        1971-72          1972-73          1973-74
State Contribution            6.64     13.17      21.50   (88%)   23.93 (est.)      24.45 (est.)
Plan                       2.00      0.99       3.74            5.90              6.15
Non-Plan                   4.64     12.18      17.76            18.03            18.30
University Receipts           1.50      1.00       1.35   (5%)      1.15 (est-)      1.15 (est.)
ICAR    Contribution         0.23       1.00      1.67   (7%)      2.19 (est.)       2.63 (est.)
Plan (2)                   0.02       .45      1.01             1.26              1.51
Non-Plan                   0.21      0.55       0.66            0.93              1.12
Total University Income       8.37     15.17      24.52  (100%)   27.27 (est.)      28.23 (eat.)
Notes:  (1)  To obtain an estimate of university income prior to the establishment of the university (1970)
estimates of budgets of all programs which were later transferred were used.
(2)  ICAR     "Plan" expenditure does not include  ICAR   assistance under its university
development program which is almost all for capital expenditure and is indluded in the State
Contribution (Plan).
Sources Rajendra Agriculture University
February 7, 1972
41



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA - AGRK:CULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Requirements and Supply of Agriculture,
Veterinary and Home Science Graduates
1.        Assam is one of the few states that has had a shortage of agri-
cultural and veterinary graduates in recent years, the demand for qualified
technical manpower having inci:eased rapidly with the emphasis given to
agricultural development in this state. In Bihar, there has been a surplus
of agricultural and veterinary graduates since 1968 and the intake in each
of the three agricultural colLeges and two veterinary colleges in this
State has been reduced. The surplus of graduates appears to be, however,
temporary. State corporation and banks are now employing agricultural
graduates and there are no hone science graduates in Assam and Bihar, ex-
cept the few recruited from other states, and an increasing demand for them
is expected in both States.
2.        The employment distribution of agriculture and veterinary grad-
uates in 1971 is estimated as follows:
Agriculture graduates:                               Assam            Bihar
- Department of Agriculture                            459            2,813/1
- Agricultural University                              141-           1,03,12
- Secondary Schools                                      5             n.a.
- ICAR                                                   3              121
- State Corporations and Banks                         100               62
- Private Sector                                       120             n.a.
Total                            828            4,033
Veterinary graduates:
- Department of Animal Husbandry                       822            1,67  ;
- Agricultural University                               49               78
- Private Sector                                       n.a.            n.a.
Total                            871            1,756
/1   Includes 230 graduates employed in lower level posts and 550 posts of
agricultural graduates held by non-professionals.
/2   Includes all-State teaching and research staff.
/3   Includes 12 non-veterinary graduates employed in research to be replaced
by veterinary graduates.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The State Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry have
traditionally been the largest employers of agriculture and veterinary
graduates but budgetary constraints have recently limited the numbers
recruited. The agricultural universities have become lately the second
largest employers since the State research staffs are being transferred to
them. The agricultural graduates employed in secondary schools in both
states are few at present but their number is expected to increase rapidly
since agricultural courses are being introduced in general education at
that level. More recently, agricultural graduates are being employed by
the newly established State corporations and the nationalized banks. Few
agricultural graduates are employed in the private sector but figures --
including self-employed graduates -- are not available, except for about
120 graduates employed by the tea estates in Assam.
4.        At present, many graduate posts remain vacant in Assam (16 in
agricultural research stations, 39 in ICAR and 66 in the State Department of
Agriculture). In Bihar, only a few vacancies exist for specialized, well-
qualified graduates. It appears that, while in Assam there is a shortage
of graduates, Bihar has a surplus of graduates but a shortage of well-
qualified personnel. In this latter State, many graduates are occupying
non-graduate posts while, at the same time, many non-graduates (appointed
during the early 1960s) are occupying graduate posts and will be replaced
in due course with well-qualified graduates. The low quality of graduates
together with graduate unemployment in recent years have resulted in a high
rate of enrollment in post-graduate studies (Annex 5), the graduates seeking
better qualifications for which there is a real demand.
5.        The annual job opportunities for graduates in agriculture, vet-
erinary and home science, in Assam and Bihar, during 1972-1980 are estimated
as follows:
Assam                       Bihar
Agri-    Veteri-   Home      Agri-    Veteri-  Home
culture   nary      Science  culture   nary    Science
-State Departments            27       33        9        113      67        22
-Agricultural Universities   13         4        4         41        3        4
-Secondary Schools            13        -       13         25        -       25
-ICAR                         10        -        -          5        -        -
-State Corporations and
Banks                      24        7        -         63      20         -
-Private Sector               13        -        10        25      _         10
Total         100      44        36       272       90       61



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        The above estimates -- which represent only the minimum clearly
identifiable job opportunities -- were assessed by collating the individual
estimates for various separate fields made by relevant authorities, using
as a starting point the annua.l replacement needs of the various agricultural
services at a rate of 4 percent p.a. In addition, the following assumptions
were made:
(i) no growth of new pc,sts in the Departments of Agriculture
and Animal Husbandry except for 66 vacant posts in the Assam
Department of Agriculture; the appointment of 70 home science
graduates in Assam (50 percent of the Blocks) and 173 in Bihar
(30 percent of the Blocks);
(ii) an increase of facuilty staff in Assam Agricultural University
as follows: 60 in agriculture, 16 in veterinary science
and 31 in home science, including 10 extension workers
attached to the university. No increase of agriculture and
veterinary staff in Rajendra Agricultural University but 31
new posts in home science; -
(iii) appointment of small but increasing numbers of agriculture
graduates (100 in Assam and 200 in Bihar) and home science
(100 in Assam and 200 in Bihar) graduates in secondary schools.
There are 900 secondary schools in Assam and 2,463 in Bihar;
(iv) some 77 ICAR vacant posts in Assam and none in Bihar;
(v) increase of new posts for agriculture and veterinary graduates
(75 percent agriculture and 25 percent veterinary) in State
corporations and banks, as follows:
Assam     Bihar
- Rural Markets                              25         75
- Rural Banking (1 graduate per
block for 30 percent of the
blocks)                                    42       173
- Agro-Service Centers                      150        400
Total                            217        648
(vi)  new opportunities in the private sector:  100 agricultural
graduates in Assam and 200 in Bihar, and 80 home science
graduates in each state including self-employment.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Although these assumptions are conservative they take account of the financial
constraints which may remain, especially in Bihar, probably until the end of
this decade.
7.        In the long term, the required numbers of agriculture, veterinary
and home science graduates for rural development in Assam and Bihar are
expected to be much higher than the demand estimates or job opportunities
described in para. I to 6 above. The introduction of new technology in
agriculture requires better informed farmers and better agricultural services
(public and private) which must employ increasing numbers of well-trained
graduates in agriculture and related fields. The farmer of the coming years,
as a manager, will operate his farm and his home with the assistance of
scientists, extensionists, bankers and private enterprises. For extension
work, for example, graduates in agriculture, veterinary and home science will
be required in each Block. There are 139 Blocks in Assam and 575 Blocks in
Bihar. The areas under high-yielding variety programs and multi-cropping
programs will require three graduates in each Block. Banks are re-orienting
their administration and lending proc:edures and will have at least one office
per Block managed by an agricultural graduate. Public services and agricul-
ture oriented enterprises will expancd their activities to reach more farmers
at the village level and will require more graduates in agriculture, veteri-
nary and home science. In addition, to the extent that the agricultural
universities achieve the higher educational standards expected of them and
develop into effective institutions for research and extension education,
fostering complementary changes in other areas of rural development, they
will help to open employment opportunities for their graduates in both
private and public sectors. It is estimated that 3,700 agricultural graduates
in Assam and 13,000 in Bihar will be required in the future with an annual
replacement of 150 and 500 graduates respectively.
8.        In the past, graduates were supplied by one agricultural college
and one veterinary college in Assam and by three agricultural colleges and
two veterinary colleges in Bihar. No home science colleges existed in either
State. The output of graduates during the 1960's was as follows:
Assam                  Bihar
Agri-     Veteri-       Agri-  /1  Veteri72
Year                 culture    nary         culture-   nary -
1961                  35          73          175         146
1962                  32         35           157         104
1963                  47          22          234         105
1964                  79          31          147         105
1965                  24          76          187         181
1966                  55          62          272         183
1967                  32          78          247         171
1968                  44         41           229         166
1969                  80         45           278         163
1970                  91         30           295          98
/1   Total graduates from the agricultural colleges at Dholi, Sabour and
Ranchi.
/2   Total graduates from the veterinary colleges at Patna and Ranchi.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
9.        The agricultural universities in Assam and Bihar will supply the
graduates required in the fu ture. The annual output of graduates is esti-
mated as follows:
Graduates in                   Assam           Bihar
Agriculture                     100             220
Veterinary Science               75              90
Home Science                     50              50
This is the minimum output envisaged in accordance with the enrollment
capacity of Assam and Rajencra (Bihar) Agricultural Universities (Annex 5). It
should be noted, however, that the enrollment capacity of both universities
can be expanded in the future at relatively low cost since the minimum pro-
visions for laboratories ancl equipment have been made in accordance with the
main functions (education, research and extension) of each academic unit.
They can be utilized at higher efficiency, without any expansion, when the
increase of enrollment is necessary.






ANNEX 5
INDIA- AgLricultural Universities
SttLdent Enrollment
A. Assam Agricultural University            1970                  1980 *
Under      Graduates  Under       Graduates
Graduates             Graduates  -
Main Campus - Jorhat
- Fac. Basic Sciences                   -           -        260          -
- Fac. Agriculture                    377          40        315         50
- Fac. Home Science                    _                    150
377          40       725          50
Veterinary Campus-Gauhati
- Fac. Veterinary Science             312          10        305         2
689          50     1,030          80
B. Rajendra (Bihar)Agricultural University
Main Campus - Pusa
- Fac. Basic Sciences                   -           -        430          -
- Fac.Agriculture                     174 (Dholi)   13       460        100
- Fac. Home Science                     -           -        100
174          13       990         100
Other Campuses:
- Fac.Agriculture, %abour             152         106          -          -
- Fac.Agriculture, Ranchi             294          84        _
620         203-      990         100
Veterinary Campuses:
- Fac. Veterinary, Ranchi             214           -        300         50
- Fac.Veterir.aiy,  Patna             264          64          -          -
1,098         267     1,290         150
1/  The proportion of graduate students is expected to decline at about
10% of the total enrollment since the present situation (33%) is considered
artificial because of the temporary unemployment of graduates.
Source: Assam and Rajendra (Bihar) Agricultural Universities
* Mission Estimates
February 7, 1972






ANNEX 6
Page
INDIA - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Staff Development and Fellowships
1.        Faculty staff requirements at the completion of the project
for the main campus and veterinary campus of Assam and Rajendra (Bihar)
agricultural universities, based on the tripartite functions of teaching,
research and extension edLucation, are estimated as follows:
Ph.D. H.Sc.B.Sc. Total
A. Assam Agricultural University
- Faculty of Agriculture:
Ag. Engineering                       1      2       4       7
Ag. Economics                         2      6       7      15
Extension Education                   1      3       6      1(
Animal Science                        3      7       5      15
Plant Production                      h     III      2      20
Soils                                 3      3       -       6
Plant Protection                     -it     5       _       9
Sub-Total                          18     40      24      82
_Faculty of Home Science:
Food and Nutrition                    2      2       1       5
Clothing and Textiles                 1      3       1       5
Family Development                    1      l       1       3
Family Management                     1      1       1       3
Education - Extension                 -      4       1       5
Sub-Total                           5     11       5       1
- Faculty of Basic Scienees:
Physics and Chemistr,y                1      5       -       6
Biology                               2       3      -       5
Mathematics mnd Soc ' ]l
Sciences                            -      4       X
Suib-Total                          3     12      _       16
Tote] :Jorhat                         26     63      30     119
- Facul-ty of Veterinary Science:
Anatomy and Physiolg,y               )4      9       2      15
Pathology and Micro--biology          3      8       3      14
Clinical Studies                      )l     9       6      19
Animal Hnfiusbandry                   5      9       3      17
Total S-taulati                      16     35      114     65
Total:Jorhat & Gauiati               42     98     44      1884



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Ph.D. B.Sc. M.Sc. Total
B.  Hajendra (Bihar) Ag-ricultural
University
- Faculty of Agriculture;
AFg. Engineerin-,                     5      7       -       12
Ag. Economics                         9     13       -       22
Extension El,ucation                  5      7       -       12
Animal  Science                       9     1-4      -       23
Plant. Production                    13     18       -       31
Soi]s                                 4      6       -          0
Plant Protection                      6      8       -       14
Sub-Total                          51     73       -      124
- Faculty of Home Science:
Food and Nutrition                    2      2       1        5
Clothing and Textiles                 1      3       1        5
Famil, Development                    1      1       1        3
Family Management                     1      I       ]         3
Education-Extension                   -       4      15
Sub-Total                           5              5        'l
- Faculty of Basic Sciences:
Physics and Chemistry                        4       -        6
IBiology                              3      3       -        6
Mathematics and Social
Sciences                            2      6       -        8
Sub-Total                           7     13       -       20
Total  PtPusa                        63     97       5
- Faculty of Veterinary:
Anatomy anni Physiolo,r               5      9       -       1 
Pathology and Micro biolog7,y         5              -       1
Clinical Studiies                     7     12       -       l9
AniinaJ  . Husb'cndry                 5     15       -       20
Total:Ranchi                       22     42       _       54
Total:Pusa and Ranchi              j5  139         5       22
2.        At present, the staff of the agriculture and veterinary science
faculties in Assam and Bihar are engaged in undergraduate teaching with
very limited research or graduate teaching opportunities while the research
staff have little or no teaching and extension responsibilities. At present,
distribution of teaching and research staff in Assam and Bihar is as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Ph.D. M.Sc. B.Sc. Total
A.   Assam Agricultural University
Agriculture:
Jorhat -- teaching                    6      34     12        52
Others -- research (approx.)        n.a.   n.a.    n.a.       89 (approx.)
Veterinary:
Gauhati - teaching                    1      20     28        49
B. Bihar Agricultural Univrersity
Agriculture:
Dholi -- teaching                     9      11     17        37
Dholi -- research                     7      16     17        40
Sabour -- teaching                   11     35       4        50
Sabour -- researc:i                  10     36      65       111
Ranchi -- teaching                   11     43       -        54
Ranchi -- researca                   17     31      17        65
Others -- research                  n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    680 (approx.)
Veterinary:
Ranchi -- teaching                    3      24      5        32
Patna -- teaching                     5      30     11        46
During the implementation of the project, the entire university staff
(teaching and research) would be integrated and grouped in subject matter
departments to perform all tripartite functions - instruction, research
and extension education.
3.        At present, only 7% of the faculty staff in Assam and 17% in
Bihar hold Ph.D. degrees. By the end of the project it is expected that
23% of the faculty members in Assam and 37% in Bihar will hold Ph.D.
degrees. Improvements in nLumbers and quality of the staff would be
achieved by transferring personnel from other locations in the state,
hiring additional qualified staff and upgrading existing personnel.
4.        The faculties of agriculture would be staffed mainly by trans-
ferring the most qualified personnel from different research stations to
the main campus of the univiersity. In Assam, there are about 89 profes-
sionals working in research stations and sub-stations, many of them with
Ph.D. qualifications. In ]ihar, there are 280 teachers and researchers
(49 holding Ph.D. degrees) in the regional research centers and colleges of
agriculture at Sabour and Rlanchi. In addition, there are 680 professionals
in other research stations and sub-stations.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
5.        The faculties of Home Science would be staffed by recruiting
from presently trained personnel in other states and by training in Indian
and foreign institutions. Qualified staff in some areas of Home Science
may be recruited among scientists with advanced degrees in related subjects,
such as nutrition teachers from biochemistry and child development teachers
from child psychology.
6.        The two faculties of Veterinary Science differ in their recruit-
ment patterns. In Assam it would be necessary to hire new staff. In
Bihar the phasing out of the Patna Veterinary College would make trained
personnel available for Ranchi.
Fellowship Program
7.        There are certain fields in both universities where specially
trained staff are required. A fellowship program in each university would
therefore be implemented under a Fellowship Committee headed by the Vice-
Chancellor. Fellows would be trained in certain fields at the M.Sc. and
Ph.D. levels in other Indian agricultural universities which offer relevant
programs. This type of training would be directly financed by the uni-
versity concerned. For Ph.D. training in fields where satisfactory pro-
grams are not offered in India, the fellows would be sent abroad. To this
end, the proposed project would provide 118 man-years of fellowships
(Annex 7).



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.   Specialists Services
1.        Professional services are needed to:  (a) prepare an overall
university development plan; (b) foster attitudes that will increase the
impact of the University output--graduates, information and services--on
agricultural development; (c) develop instruction, research and extension
programs in agriculture, veterinary science and home science; and (d) help
in all aspects of project inmplementation. These services would be rendered
through assignment of specialists as follows:
.......... .man-years
Assam                Bihar
1.   University Administration                  3                     3
- High level adviser to the
Vice-Chancellor
2.   Faculty of Agriculture                     15                   15
- Agricultural economics
- Agricultural engineering
- Animal science
- Laboratory techniciai5s
3.   Faculty of Home Science                     3                    3
- Education, research and
extension programs, organiza-
tion and setting up
laboratories
4.   Faculty of Veterinary Science               6                     6
- Veterinary clinic
- Laboratory technicians
5.  Project Administratior                       5                    5
- Project Unit architects



ANNEX 7
Page 2
The GOI is reluctant to use credit funds for technical assistance, preferring
to obtain such assistance from international and bilateral aid agencies to
implement an ICAR panel of Indian and foreign experts who would service
requests from agricultural universities. It is expected therefore that the
above mentioned technical assistance would be provided by ICAR.
2.        It is felt, however, that a minimum number of specialists should be
financed under the project and should be assigned to each university as an
essential ingredient for the success of the project. Such specialists would
be: (i) a highly qualified adviser on organization and administration to the
Vice-Chancellor, for at least three years -- preferably a former Vice-Chancellor,
or Dean of Agriculture with Land Grant College type experience and motivation;
(ii) a highly qualified adviser to the Home Science Dean, for at least three
years, with similar experience and motivation; (iii) veterinary specialists to
assist the Veterinary Deans for at least two years; and (iv) a project unit
architect for five years. Detailed allocation of specialists other than those
considered essential would be determined by the University.
3.        Should the GOI fail to obtain the specialists referred to in para 2
above, they would be provided by the project. The cost, excluding contin-
gencies, for both universities is estimated as follows:
Total     Foreign
Cost      Exchange
Man-years  US$'000    US$'000
1.   University Administration              6        210         144
2.   Faculty of Home Science                6        210         144
3.   Faculty of Veterinary Science          4        140          95
4.   Project Administration                10        200          -
Total                           26         760        383



ANNEX 7
Page 3
B.   Fellowships
1.        Fellowships are included in the project as under:
Total     Foreign
Cost      Exchange
Man-years  US$'000      US$'000
Assam'
- Faculty of Agriculture                   30       126.0         88.2
- Faculty of Home Science                   9        37.8         26.5
- Faculty of Basic Sciences                 9        37.8         26.5
- Faculty of Veterinary Science            30       126.0         88.2
Sub-Total                       78        327.6       229.4
Bihar:
- Faculty of Agriculture                   40       168.0        117.6
Total                          118        495.6       347.0
2.        The selection of fields of study, training institutions and the
individual fellows would be the responsibility of the Fellowship Committee
of the University concerned. Before fellowships are awarded, the Association
would be consulted on a fellowship program to be prepared by the Committee.






INDIA - AGRICULTURAL BNIVERSITIES
Summary of Estimated Costs  Us000)
Planned Capacity         Site                         Buildings                 Furniture  Equipment  Professional  Technical            Total Cost
Student                    Develop-      Academic/              Staff                                         Services    Assistance
Enrollment    Boarding       ment        Communal   Boarding  Housing    Total                                                               Os$   Rupees
000's   000's
1.  Assam - Agricultural University
a)  Main Campus, Jorhat                      775           400          379          1,329        254        398       1,981      158        1,050         260           512        4,340    31,595
b)  Veterinary Campus, Cauhati               335            lU          ill            o9i         A11                 1,1         SE          330         1A             19'        7 076     15 115
2.  Bihar - Agricultural University
a)  Main Campus, Pusa                      1,090            600         801          1,548        297        824       2,669      215        1,440         382            478        5,985    43,570
b)  Veterinary Campus, Ranchi                350              -          75            217          -        159         376       30          590          50             70        1,191      8,670
3. Delhi
Computer Center                                                                                                                                830            -             -          830      6,042
4.  Contingencies                                                             583 __2,130                                                170        1,346         294           404        4,927    35,868
Total US Dollars                                                    2,049                                             8,262      661         5,586      1,131         1,660        19,349
Total Rupees                                                       14,917                                            60,147   4,812        40,666       8,233        12,085                  140,860
April 4, 1972
0m






INDIA - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES
Contingency Allowances (US$000)
Site
Development       Buildings             Furniture             Equipment         Prof.  Services       Tech.Assistance
Local    Foreign  Local  Foreign       Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign    TOTAL
US$ 000's
Allowance for
Unforeseen Factors:?. 15         is        I       1n         10         10        10         10         10       n.a.         10         10
Allowance for Price
Increases :           25         20       25       2D         25        20         25         20         25       n.a.         25         20
Total: %              40         35       35       30         35        30         35         30         35       n.a.         35         30
Total Cost excluding
Contingencies      1,393         73    5,825      307        466        25      1,484      2,756        837        -          526        730       14,422
Contingencies:
Unforeseen Factors  ?09          11      582       31         47          2       148        276         84        -           53         73        1,516
Price  Increases    348          15    1,456       61       16          5        371        551        210        _          132        146        3,411
Total                557         26    2,038       92        163          7       519        827        294        -          185        219        4,927
Total Cost Including
Contingencies      1,950         99    7,863      399        629        i2      2,003      3,583      1,131        -          711        949       19,349
February 7, 1972
Xt






ANNEX 10.
Page 1
Recurrent Expenditures
Assam Agriultural University
1971 - 72             1976 - 7?
Location         Rs ('000)                            %I increase
Jorhat             2,898       57         7,310       64           152
Gauhati            1,337       26         2,985        26          123
Others               868       17         1,105       10            27
Total              5,103      100        llv4D0      100           123
_/ Research Stations and i3ub-stations.
Raj    &(Bihar) Agricultural University
1971 - 72             1976-- 77
Location          Rs (1000              R              %       % increase
Dholi-Pusa 2       7,790       34        14,9940       37           92
Ranchi             1,261        5         3,720         9          195
Others            14,177       61        21,340                       . 51
Total             23,228      100        40,000      100            72
2 Includes the College of Agriculture and the Regional Research
Station at Dholi, and the Sugar Research Station at Pusa.
J Includes the colleges and research stations at Sabour, Ranchi and
Patna, and other research substations in the State.



ANNEX 10
Page  2
Recurrent Expenditures
(thousands rupees)
Assam Agricultural University
1971-72                         1976-77
Jorhat Gauhati Others  Total Jorhat Gauhati Others  Total
Professional Salaries
& Allowances            952     568      183    1,703  2,025     970     280    3,275
Supporting Salaries
& Allowances/           898     336      503    1,737  1,515     430     640    2,585
Materials                 226     101       75      402    370     195      95      660
Mainten nce/Replace-
ment_/                  187      82        -      269  2,2240    990       -    3,230
Other37                   635     250     107       992  1 16      400      90    1,650
Total                   2,898   1,337     868    5,103  7,310   2,985   1,105   11,400
::5=S   =S==  ==    2=2~= 5==-=:  =====   =~==:=   =~===-e
For 1976-77, salaries and allowances = 61% of total recurrent expenditures
(given reasonable assumptions about salary component of maintenance/replacement).
RaJ endra(Bihar) Agricultural University
1971-72                       1976-77
Dholi/                          Dholi/
Pusa _/ Ranchi  Others  Total Pusa _j/ Ranchi  Others  Total
Professional Salaries
& Allowances          3,862     538    6,203  10,603  6,090   1,060   8,810   15,960
Supporting Salaries
& Allowances 1/       1,767     349    3,385   5,501  2,580      585   4,715    7,880
Materials               1,127     335    3,037   4,499  1,870      620   4,050    6,5hO
Maintenance/Replace-
ment 2/                  98       -         -      98  2,710   1,190   1,540    5,440
Other                     936      39    1,552   2,527  1,690      265   2,225    4,180
Total                   7,790   1,261   14,177  23,228 14,940   3,720  21,340   40,000
-  == =5=  5= ====  ====== ===== = ==== --= =_-=
For 1976-77, salaries and allowances = 64% of total recurrent expenditures
(given reasonable assumptions about salary component of maintenance/replacement).



ANNEX 10
Page 3
1/  Includes salaries of low-scale professionals ("establishment") and
non-professionals.
/ Most of maintenance was done by State Public Works Department in 1971-
72. Figures for 1976-77 assume transfer of all university maintenance
to university budget. Rleplacement is for equipment only.
/ Includes scholarships, recreation, medical expenses, transport, meetings,
fairs and miscellaneous other.
v  For both 1971-72 and 1976-77, it is assumed that recurrent cost of
Rajendra University Administration, part of which is housed temporarily
at Patna, has already been transferred to Dholi/Pusa.
March 31, 1972






INDIA - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS (US$000)
First Year ,          Second vear                Third Year                Fourth Year               Fifth Year                S,xth Year            Seventh YeaT
3    6    9    12    15    18    21    24    27    30    33    36    39    42    45    48    51    54    57    60    63    66    69    72    75    78
University Development Plan
Preparation
University Development Plan                XXX  xxx  xxx   XXX
Physical Facilities
Preparation
Master Plans                                                XXX   XXX   XXX
Civril Works
Preparation                                                       XXX      XXX    XXX    XXX   XXX   xXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Sketch Plans i Tentder LDocuments
Tender Period and
Bid Evaluation                                                                        XXX XXX   XXX   XXX   XYX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Construct onXXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX    XX    XX   XXX   XXX    XX   XXX   XXX
Liabricty Period                                                                                                                         XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
lgur      t oft Furniture and
Preparation List and tender                                                    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
docuwents
Tender Period                                                                                            XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Manufacturin     t      t                                                                                             XXX   KXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Delivery andInstaUjuent
Lcability Period                                                                                                                                XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Technical Assistance
University Adminiscratton                  XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Veterinary Sclence                                    XXX   XXX   XXx   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Home Science                                          XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   YXXX   XXX    X    XXX   XXX   XXX
Project Administa tion                     XXX  XXX  XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX  XXX  XXX    XXX  XXX    XXX
Fellowsheps                                                       XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX
Disbursements
Total D,sb--sements                         25   25   100  100   250   250   250   250   600   600   800   800  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1200  1000  1000  1000  1000   500   250
Credit DLsbursenents                        15   IS      5   70   165   1'.5   165   165   390   390   520   320   780   780   780   780   780   780   780   780   655   655   655   655   330   165



ANNEX 12
INDIA - AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES PROJECT
ESTIMATES SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS (US $ 000)
Accumulated      Total Balance
Quarter              Disbursement      Disbursement       Undisbursed
1         1.3            15                15            11,985
2         1.3           15                 30            11,970
3         5.4           65                 95            11,905
4         5.8           70                165            11,835
5        13.7           165               330            11,670
6        13.7          165                495            11,505
7        13.7          165                660            11,340
8        13.7          165                825            11,175
9        32.5          390              1,215            10,785
10        32.5          390              1,605            10,395
11        h3.4          520              2,125             9,875
12        43.4          520              2,6h5            9,355
13        65.0          780              3,425             8,575
1h        65.0          780              4,205             7,795
15        65.0          780              4,985             7,015
16        65.0          780              5,765             6,235
17        65.0          780              6,545             5,455
18        65.0          780              7,325             4,675
19        65.0          780              8,105             3,895
20        65.0           780             8,885             3,115
21        54.6          655              9,540             2,460
22        54.6          655             10,195             1,805
23        54.6          655             10,850             1,150
24        5..6           655            11,505               495
25        27.5          330             11,835               165
26        13.7           165            12,000                 0



4W.r
INDIA
BIHAR   STATE                     (
-+ } RAJENDRA  AGRICULTURAL  UNIVERSITY  (
2riv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  0  20  40X 60  so .                         .
J~~~3 4   gS9M~~~~ot,ha,, T A    
u r,          S ngheshw~orsh besgonj 
U T T A R              h                 aru   Dabog                                 /' auA Ksogn
V s     X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vr             t,p^,  _,\rsoZ                           '
t~~~~~Ba                  PATNhw               hm     a or                    r   
zM A D H Y A {    C    Lah1rdag1~~~~r,<  M.k.m-
.~~~~~~N I/ a,: Rh -; S-SA                             p_      J>
MARCH  1972IBRD38324-
MA DHY97   A'BD 83






90                  ~~~~~~~~92'                                              96e
tNDIA
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
LOCATIONS
.                    e     .   \ d    j                   R4~~~~~~~           ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~GKUJ '     . 
/                          t  O~~~~~~~~~        ~      ~~ SAMBHI    HAPOLI  _  HCHABUA    \t
28                                              33                             R& a       1        
B H U T A NO
d         Pti                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA COVERED
9A2'                                 0      5BY0 MAP~
V S (pA:o '    ar r  k n,   *                                         I             I A
APRIL 972                                                                                                   1810 3835~~SHIL6N
<S X . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                                         SAM\1  
6  ,' y 1    W  )    t   >  X. \ )    j ~~~ILCHR  N         *PN    .
A               A       $  ' % LUNGL H  rJ    0~~~~~~~~~A&A MAGWIAU  UNIVERSITY-
i; j  0   |    --INT~ETERINARY CAMPEUStr
APRIL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~      -      ITRNTOA  BOUNDARDRIES



