CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1972, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The 'orrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
State of Assam, acting by its Governor, and the State of Bihar, acting by its
Governor, the State of Assam and the State of Bihar have each agreed to undertake
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, Assam
Agricultural University and Rajendra Agricultural University of Bihar, certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project, have been undertaken
by Assam Agricultural University and Rajendra Agricultural University of Bihar;
and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;


﻿4
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h);
(c)   I  Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph
5:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(d)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph 12:
"13. The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Assam and Bihar Agreement'
have the meanings set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   In Section 6.06 the words "the Project Agreement and the the Assam
and Bihar Agreement" are added after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Assam" means the State of Assam, a state of India, acting by its
Governor, or any successor thereof;
(b)   "Bihar" means the State of Bihar, a state of India, acting by its
Governor, or any successor thereof;
(c)   "Assam   Agricultural University" means the Assam      Agricultural
University established and incorporated under the Assam Agricultural University
Act, 1968;
(d)   "Bihar Agricultural University" means the Rajendra Agricultural
University of Bihar established and incorporated under the Rajendra Agricultural
University Act, 1971;
(e)   "the Universities", "the University" and other verbal connotations
thereof mean Assam Agricultural University and/or Bihar Agricultural University,
as the case may require;
(f)   "ICAR" means the Indian Council of Agricultural Research of the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture or any successor thereof;


﻿5
(g)   "Central Project Unit" means the Education Division of ICAR as
organized for the purposes of the Project in accordance with Schedule 3 hereto;
(h)   "Project Units" means thL respective project units established at the
Universities as organized for the purposes of the Project in accordance with Section
2.10 of, and Part I of Schedule 2 to, the Project Agreement;
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Universities, and any schedule thereto, as the
same may be amended from time to time; and
(j)   "Assam  and Bihar Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between Assam, Bihar and the Association, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured by the Universities pursuant to the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than services of consultants and specialists) rcquired for Part C of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit, shall be procured on the


﻿6
basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or .-ch other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
February 1, 1983 and ending August 1, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Universities to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate
(including the provision of adequate funds under its Fifth Plan) to enable the
Universities to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to the Universities the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit relating to Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its approval,
promptly upon preparation, the lists of equipment including specifications, the
contract documents and procurement schedules for Part C of the Project and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Borrower agrees to organize the Central Project Unit in
accordance with Schedule 3 hereto.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by Assam and Bihar of their respective obligations under the Assam and Bihar
Agreement, the performance by the Universities of their obligations under the
Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Universities and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Universities
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement
or the performance by the Universities of their obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Assam and Bihar Agreement and the
Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.


﻿Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Assam, Bihar or the Universities shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Assam and Bihar Agreement or the Project
Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Assam, Bihar or the Universities will be able to perform their
respective obligations under the Assam and Bihar Agreement or the Project
Agreement; and
(c)   The Assam    Agricultural University Act, 1968 and the Rajendra
Agricultural University Act, 1971 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Universities to carry out their obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Ccoiditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the
Universities.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of: (i) the Assam and Bihar Agreement
on behalf of Assam and Bihar, and (ii) the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Universities, have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;


﻿10
(b)  The appointment of a qualified adviser in university administration
to the Vice-Chancellor of each of the Universities;
(c)  The designation of the Deputy Director General for Education of ICAR
as Director of the Central Project Unit; and
(d)  The appointment of a full-time Project Coordinator for the Central
Project Unit.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Assam
and Bihar Agreement and the Project Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Assam and Bihar and the
Universities, and each constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Assam and Bihar
and the Universities in accordance with its terms.
Section  7.03. The   date  March  9, 1973    is hereby  specified for
the purpo.,es of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(b) and
3.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years aftei
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Construction                   5,000,000          60% of total
expenditures
II.   Equipment and                  3,800,000
furniture
(a)   directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                    expenditures
(b)   manufactured                                100% of local
locally (ex-                                expenditures
factory price)
(c)  imported and                                 65% of total
procured locally                            expenditures
III.  Technical Assistance           1,250,000          100% of total
expenditures
IV.   Unallocated                    1,950,000
TOTAL         12,0000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to October 24, 1972; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will, subject to the provisions of subparagraph (c) hereof, be reallocated
by the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the
Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures;


﻿14
(c)   any amountz in Categories II, III and IV which are no longer required
therefor shall be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
amount allocated to Category 1, II or III and the Association will increase
correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes) the percentage of
expenditures of Category I or II; and
(d)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the provisions of
Section 2.03 of this Agreement or the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as
in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I or
11(c) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    construction of, and furniture and equipment for, facilities at the main
and veterinary campuses of the Universities, as set out in Annex A hereto;
B.    technical assistance as set out in Annex B hereto, consisting of (i)
specialists' services for university development and project implementation, and (ii)
fellowships for faculty staff development; and
C.    the acquisition and installation of new and ancillary equipment for
the Institute of Agriculture Statistics computer center at Pusa, Delhi.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿16
ANNEX A
Facilities Included in Part A of the Project
Assam Agricultural           Bihar Agricultural
University                   University
Main       Veterinary       Main        Veterinary
Campus        Campus         Campus       Campus
(Jorhat)     (Gauhati)       (Pusa)      (Ranchi)*
Approximate gross areas in m2
A.    Academic and Communal Facilities
(1)   General Teaching Rooms:
Lecture Rooms
Seminar Rooms             1,410          320           2,010
(2)   Teaching and Research
Laboratories for the
Faculties of:
Basic Science             2,500            -           2,500
Agriculture               9,730            -           9,730
Home Science               300             -             300
Veterinary
(including
veterinary clinic)     -        12,300               -          2,400*
Total              12,530        12,300          12,530         2,400*
(3)   Communal Facilities
Library
Administration
Offices
Health Center             9,360        2,920           9,360
Guest House
Cafeteria
Toilets
*     Under the academic and communal facilities only the veterinary clinic is included. There
is no need for remodelling the existing facilities.


﻿17
Assam Agricultural          Bihar Agricultural
University                 University
Main       Veterinary      Main       Veterinary
Campus       Campus        Campus       Campus
(Jorhat)    (Gauhati)       (Pusa)     (Ranchi)*
Approximate gross areas in m2
Total Academic and
Communal Facilities
required            23,300        15,540         23,900         2,400*
Total Academic and
Communal Facilities
existing and to be
remodelled            6,100        4,000            -              - *
Total new area
required             17,200       11,540       23,900           2,400
B.   Farm Buildings                1,400        1,400         1,400          1,400
C.   Boarding Facilities           4,680        1,755         6,240             -
D.   Staff Houses                  5,850        1,755        13,455          2,340
*    Under the academic and communal facilities only the veterinary clinic is included. There
is no need for remodelling the existing facilities.


﻿18
ANNEX B
Technical Assistance Under Part B of the Project
I. Specialist Services
Man Years
Assam       Bihar
1.    University Administration
Adviser to the Vice-Chancellor                          3          3
2.    Faculty of Home Science
Adviser to Dean/Specialist                              3          3
3.    Faculty of Veterinary Sciences and Animal Husbandry
Adviser to Dean/Specialist                              2          2
4.    Project Administration
Project Unit architects                                 5          5
II. Fellowships
5.    Fellowships for the Faculties of Agricul-             78          40
ture, Home Science, Basic Sciences and
Veterinary Science


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Central Project Unit
1.    The Director of the Central Project Unit shall be ICAR's Deputy Director
General for Education. The Director will be assisted by a Project Coordinator
appointed on a full time basis and with such technical and supporting staff as
are necessary to carry out the Project.
2.    The Central Project Unit shall provide overall guidance and supervision in
project implementation and shall also have overall responsibility for the execution
of the Project.
3.    The Central Project Unit shall serve as a channel for requests from the Project
Units to the Borrower and the Association and vice versa.


