CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
AND
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY OF BIHAR
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Project Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
AND
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY OF BIHAR
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), ASSAM
AGRICULTURAL        UNIVERSITY      and    RAJENDRA      AGRICULTURAL
UNIVERSITY OF BIHAR (hereinafter called Bihar Agricultural University).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to makc available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Assam Agricultural University and Bihar Agricultural
University (in this Agreement together called the Universities) agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to Assam Agricultural
University and Bihar Agricultural University; and
WHEREAS the Universities in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have each agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each of the Universities shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement as relating


﻿4
to it with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, educational and technical practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Universities in the preparation of a Campus
Master Plan and the design and supervision of construction work in the Project,
the Universities shall each employ architectural and engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out Part A of the Project, the Universities shall each employ contractors acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants and specialists) required for Part A of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972 and in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Universities undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Universities to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Universities shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Universities shall each furnish to the Association for
its approval, promptly upon their preparation, the sketch plans and specifications,
the model contract documents (except any such contract documents required to
be furnished to the Association for information only pursuant to Schedule I hereto)
and procurement schedules for the Project and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Universities: (i) shall each maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by


﻿5
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The Universities shall each prepare and send to the Association
not later than one year after the date of this Agreement or such further period
as the Association may allow, a comprehensive plan for the development of the
University.
Section 2.08. The Universities shall each not later than 6 months after the
date of this Agreement or such further period as the Association may allow employ
the architects, and one adviser/specialist in home science, as specified in Annex
B to Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, all of whom shall be suitably
qualified.
Section 2.09. The Universities shall furnish to the Association a fellowship
program, prepared in consultation with the Association, for the carrying out of
Part B (ii) of the Project.
Section 2.10. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Universities
shall each establish a Project Unit in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)   The responsibilities of the Vice-Chancellors of the Universities shall
include the functions set out in Part 2 of the said Schedule.
Section 2.11. Bihar Agricultural University shall ensure that the assignment
of subject matters and other responsibilities to its departments, institutes or other
bodies accords with sound university educational practices and that the assignment
shall be effected in such a manner as to avoid duplication and imbalance.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Universities
Section 3.01. The Universities shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.


﻿6
Section 3.02. The Universities shall each take all necessary action (including
the provision of adequate funds) to ensure the effective maintenance of their
buildings, equipment, furniture and other facilities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each of the Universities shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Universities shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Universities shall from time to time, at the request of any
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Universities and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Universities shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any
of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Universities shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Universities
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿7
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Universities thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Universities of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿8
For Assam Agricultural University:
Assam Agricultural University
Jorhat
Assam, India
Cable address:
AGRIVERSITY
Jorhat
For Bihar Agricultural University:
Rajendra Agricultural University
Patna
Bihar, India
Cable address:
AGRIVERSITY
Patna
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement: (i) on
behalf of Assam Agricultural University may be taken or executed by the
Vice-Chancellor or such other person or persons as the Vice-Chancellor shall
designate in writing; and (ii) on behalf of Bihar Agricultural University may be
taken or executed by the Vice-Chancellor or such other person or persons as the
Vice-Chancellor shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Universities shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of each of them take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Universities
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.,
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President
ASSAM AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
RAJENDRA AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY OF BIHAR
By /s/ L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contracts for civil works shall be grouped, when reasonable under sound
procurement practices, in such a manner as would ensure adequate competition.
The following provisions shall, to the extent allowed by the procurement rules
and procedures in force in Assam and Bihar, apply to civil works contracts estimated
to cost $100,000 or more:
(a)   Bids will be advertised in national and local newspapers. The University
concerned shall furnish to the Association for its comments a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed;
(b)   Bidders will be required to prequalify or bidding will be limited to
contractors registered with the State Public Works Department of
Assam and Bihar. The University concerned shall inform the
Association in detail of the prequalification or registration procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in the procedure
as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
or registered bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification or registration, shall be furnished to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and Assam, Bihar
or the Universities (as the case may require) shall make such additions
to, or deletions from, the list as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(c)   Before bids are invited, the University concerned shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bd, the
specifications and other bidding documents, and shall make such
modifications in these documents or procedures as the Association shall
reasonably request. Any further modifications to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders;
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the University shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the
name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and


﻿11
shall furnish the Association, in sufficient time for its review, with
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with reasons for the intended award. The Association shall
promptly inform the University concerned whether it has any objection
to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent
with these requirements or with the Development Credit or Project
Agreements, and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have;
(e)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked,
no expenditure thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit;
(f)   Two certified copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract;
(g)   The University concerned shall request the Association's approval for
any proposed change in a contract involving a price increase of more
than 10 percent of the contract price, together with an explanation
of the proposed change.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $100,000 shall follow the officially established rules and procedures
of Assam or Bihar (as the case may be). Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, such contracts shall be limited to four in number for each University. When
invoking the provisions of this paragraph the University concerned shall inform
the Association in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request of the
procedures followed and, with the application for reimbursement for the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, shall, as appropriate, provide the following
information:
(a)   A certificate signed by the Vice Chancellor of the University concerned
or his designated representative that the goods and services covered
by the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications
as described in the material provided under Section 2.06(a) of this
Agreement or that the said goods and services constitute an integral
part of the Project;


﻿12
(b)   A list of bids received together with a brief analysis thereof and
justification for the University's decision in making the award; and
(c)   Two certified copies of the contract.
3.    The Association shall promptly inform the University whether it has any
objection to the award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the
provisions of the Guidelines or with the Development Credit or Project Agreements,
and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have. If the Association has
reasonable objection to the contract award, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
B.    Contracts for Furniture and Equipment
1.    Furniture (irrespective of amount) and equipment covered by contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 shall be procured on the basis of all-India
competitive bidding. Equipment covered by contracts estimated to cost $100,000
or more shall be procured on the basis of international competition.
2.    Before bids are invited, the University shall furnish to the Association the
following:
(a)   lists of all items of furniture and equipment required for the Project
showing the specifications or, as appropriate, an adequate description and the
estimated unit and total price of each item. Items shall be indexed, coded and
numbered for identification with the Project institution in question and the spaces
for which they are required. The items to be purchased shall be grouped so as
to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and
procurement practices. Amendments of such lists which may be made from time
to time shall also be submitted to the Association; and
(b)   draft standard document for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
description of the method to be used for obtaining bids on a competitive basis.
3.    Procurement shall be limited to those items of furniture and equipment
specified in the lists furnished to the Association under subparagraph B.2(a) above
and identified in contract documents by the same indexes, codes and numbers
as in the lists.
4.    The following method will be used in evaluating any competing bids received
for imported and for locally manufactured equipment:


﻿13
(a)   The term   "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if imported
into the territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers,
or 15% of the amount specified in (c)(i) above, whichever shall
be lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
5.    The Universities shall obtain the prior approval of the Association before
awarding contracts for equipment in any of the following cases:
(a)   if the contract involves an amount of $50,000 equivalent or more;
or
(b)   if it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c)   if it is for an amount exceeding by 10% or more the estimated value
or price shown in a list sent to the Association pursuant to paragraph B.2(a) above
and not objected to by the Association. In any of these cases, the University shall,
after the bids have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the
Association in sufficient time for its approval, a summary and analysis thereof
and a brief justification of the University's proposal for the award. The Association


﻿14
shall promptly inform the University whether it has any objection to the intended
award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or of this Agreement, and shall
state the reasons for any such objection.
6.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been awarded
and before submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the following shall be sent to the Association
(if not already furnished under paragraph 3 above):
(a)   certificate signed by the Vice-Chancellor or an officer duly designated
by him in writing to the Association that the goods covered by the contract are
in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list approved by the
Association;
(b)   list of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the University's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   two certified copies of the contract.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Part 1
Project Units
1.    The Project Units shall be established at the main campuses of the
Universities.
2.    Each Project Unit shall be headed by the Vice-Chancellor and shall comprise
a project architect, a procurement officer and such technical and supporting staff
as shall be required to carry out the Project. The project architect shall be appointed
on a full time basis and may be an officer seconded from the State Public Works
Department.
3.    Each Project Unit shall be responsible for the financial and administrative
control of the part of the Project with which it is concerned and its proper
execution, including inter alia:
(a)   coordination with ministries and other government agencies concerned
with the Project;
(b)   liaison with the Association through the Central Project Unit;
(c)   the preparation of a comprehensive implementation schedule for setting
down the planned timetable of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which
the carrying out of the Project will be based;
(d)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the campus
planning consultants and of the firms of design architects and contractors, including
the establishment of their terms of reference and administration of their agreements,
and the review and approval of all campus planning and architectural design work;
(e)   the preparation of master lists of furniture and instructional equipment;
(f)   all necessary steps for competitive bidding for civil works and for the
procurement of furniture and instructional equipment, including the preparation
of bidding and contract documents, the evaluation of bids and the making of
recommendations regarding the award of contract; and
(g)   the supervision of construction and procurement and installation
procedures for furniture and equipment and the regular inspection of construction
work.


﻿16
Part 2
Functions of the Vice-Chancellors
Each Vice-Chancellor shall, through such officers as he shall designate, be
responsible for the following functions:
(a)   the selection, briefing and coordination of the specialists to be
employed under Part B of the Project, including the establishment of their terms
of reference, the administration of their agreements and arrangements for the review
of their work by appropriate authorities;
(b)   the organization, coordination and control of the fellowship program
under Part B of the Project;
(c)   the maintenance of records, including financial records, and the
furnishing of information under this Agreement during the carrying out of the
Project;
(d)   the preparation of applications for withdrawal from      the Credit
Account; and
(e)   evaluation of progress in implementing the Project and the preparation
and presentation of regular reports to the Association.


