CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Assam and Bihar Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF ASSAM
AND
THE STATE OF BIHAR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 342 IN
Assam and Bihar Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF ASSAM
AND
THE STATE OF BIHAR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 10, 1972


﻿ASSAM AND BIHAR AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1972, between THE STATE OF
ASSAM, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Assam) and THE STATE OF
BIHAR, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Bihar) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement (hereinafter referred to
as the Development Credit Agreement) of even date herewith between India, acting
by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
inter alia that Assam and Bihar agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association, Assam
Agricultural University and Rajendra Agricultural University of Bihar, Assam
Agricultural University and Rajendra Agricultural University of Bihar have each
agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
and
(C)   Assam and Bihar, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have each agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. To enable Assam Agricultural University to fulfill effectively
its functions under the Assam University Agricultural Act, 1968, Assam shall cause
to be transferred to Assam Agricultural University, not later than six months after
the date of this Agreement or such further period as the Association may allow,
all its existing agricultural research institution3 together with the facilities relating
thereto.
Section 2.02. Assam and Bihar shall take such steps as shall be necessary
on their part, including the provision of adequate financial support, to enable the
Universities to carry out their functions efficiently.
Section 2.03. Assam, Bihar and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Assam, Bihar
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of any party to this
Agreement, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.04. Assam and Bihar shall take all action which shall be necessary
on their part to enable the Universities to perform their obligations under the
Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of their agencies to take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance of any such
obligations of the Universities.
Section 2.05. Assam, Bihar and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 10.04 of the


﻿5
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Assam and Bihar of this
event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of Assam,
Bihar and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Assam:
Chief Secretary to the Government of Assam
Shillong
Assam, India
Cable address:
ASSAM
Shillong
For Bihar:
Chief Secretary to the Government of Bihar
Patna
Bihar, India


﻿6
Cable address:
BIHAR
Patna
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of: (i) Assam may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary to the Government
of Assam or such other person or persons as Assam shall designate in writing;
and (ii) Bihar may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary to the Govenment
of Bihar or such other person or persons as Bihar shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. Assam and Bihar shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Assam or, as the case may require, Bihar, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by Assam or Bihar pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿7
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF ASSAM
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
THE STATE OF BIHAR
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s I.P.M. Cargill
Vice President


