Dot of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RiPait No. 12084-PB
MULTILATERAL FUND UNDER THE MONTREAL PROTOCOL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
FOR COUNTRY DEPARTMENT I
OF THE
ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THIE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
ON A
PROPOSED OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15.049 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT t'
SEPTEMBER 27, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a resuicted disbtibution and may be used by recents ony in the perfornmue of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witbout World Bank auttion



CURRENCY   EOUIVALENTS
(As of March 1993)
Currency Unit = Peso (P)
US$0.04 - P1.00
US$1.00 - P0.25
ABBREVIATIONS   AND   ACRONYMS
CP          Country Program (for ODS Phase Out)
DENR        Department of Environment and Natural
Resources
ECC         Environmental Compliance Certificate
EMB         Environment Management Bureau
FA          Financial Agent
GEF         Global Environment Facility
LBP         Land Bank of the Philippines
MAC         Mobile Air-conditioning
MF          Multilateral Fund of the Montreal Protocol
MP          Montreal Protocol
MT          Metric Tons
MFEC        Multilateral Fund Executive Committee
ODS         Ozone Depleting Substances, or Controlled
Substances as defined by the Montreal
Protocol
ODP         Ozone Depleting Potential (CFC 11 - 1.0)
OTF         Ozone Project Trust Fund of the World Bank
for the Substances as defined by the
Montreal Protocol
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR (PHILIPPINES)
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Project and Grant Summary
Project DescriRtion                      The  Project  would  assist  the
Philippines   to   implement   an
accelerated ODS phaseout program
by: (1) providing financing for
priority  subprojects,   and   (2)
strengthening executing agencies.
Executing Agencies                       Department  of  Environment  and
Natural Resources ;;DENR) and Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP).
Beneficiaries                            Local Enterprises introducing ODS
reducing technologies; and
)ENR and LBP as executing agencies.
Amount                                   US$ 15.049 million equivalent
Terms                                    Grant
Re-lending Terms                         Grant
Proiect Cost Summary                     Component               USS Million
ODS Investment Subprojects 14.740
Technical Assistarce          0.309
SUB-TOTAL                    15.049
Commercial Loans/or           8.161
Enterprise Own Funds
TOTAL                        23.210
Economic Rate of Return                  N/A
Staff Appraisal Report                   N/A
r   locument has a restictd disibution and may be uvd by recipkiens only in the pformac   heir
oficial dies Its contents may not ovise be discl s-d v4c)  World Ban ahorion.  '



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 1
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
1.       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND 1 grant to the Republic of the
Philippines for the equivalent of US$15.049 million to help finance a project to
introduce ODS reducing technologies and to strengthen the capability of executing
agencies for implementing ODS Phase Out projects in the Philippines.
Baclgrou.nd
1.        The Philippine economy is at a critical stage where 5£t has the
opportunity to leave behind a prolonged era of economic recovery and
stabilization and to move ahead towards sustained growth with the export led
industry as the principal driving fcrce. Industrial gr,wth, however, will not be
sustainable without taking environmental concerns into consideration. The
Government  has  undertaken  the  first  steps  to  promote  conditions  for
environmentally sound development without disrupting industrial development. The
Philippines ratified the Montreal Protocol (HP) on Substances that Deplete the
Ozone Layer in March 1991, and is eligible for Ozone Trust Fund (OTF) financing.
2.        In 1990, the Philippines consumed about 3,850 t3ns ODS 'equivalent to
2,650 tons expressed as Ozone Depleting Potential, ODP), mainly as refrigerants
in refrigeration and air conditioning (45%), including automobiles (26%), blowing
agents (16% foam and 13% tobacco) and as solvents in the electronics and metal
industry (21%). The growth rate during 1986-90 was about 14% p.a. Per capita
consumption in 1991 was 0.06 kg. ODP.
3.        The Government is committed to establishing a cost effective program
for phasing out Ozone Depleting Substances  (ODS).   A Montreal  Protocol
Secretariat (Ozone Desk) has been established under the lead agency, the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), to oversee implementation
of the MP. DENR and the Environment Management Bureau (EMB), the lead regulatory
agency and coordinator of Ozone Desk activities, are institutionally capable, but
they are under-staffed and have insufficient resources to cope with ODS phase out
and environmental protection in a growing economy. The Land Bank of the
Philippines (LBP), which has extensive experience as a development bank and has
been a borrower of several Bank loans, has been assigned by the Government to act
as the financial agent (FA) to channel funds from the OTF to MP related projects.
4.        A Country Program (CP) that defines the strategy, incremental costs,
policies and actions required to achieve early ODS phase out was completed in
June 1993. The CP spells out the need for regulatory measures to control imports
of ODS and fiscal measures to encourage the use of ODS substitutes and of non-ODS
technologies. The CP is based on an ODS Country Study completed by Cowiconsult
./  The Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) has been established under the Interim Multilateral Fund for the
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol. Its purpose is to fund activities which enable developing countries
who are signatories of the Protocol, to comply with their obligations under the Protocol. The OT is
administered by the World Bank.



-2 -
in 1991.2 The Bank acted as the implementing agency for two engineering studies
to prepare this proRosed ODS Phase Out Investment Project, including sixteen
subprojects in refrigerant recycling, household refrigeration, foam blowing,
tobacco processing, and electronics and metal cleaning. The Executive Project
Summary (EPS) of the proposed proj3ct was reviewed in a meeting on January 12,
1993, and was approved on January 15, 1993.
5.        The Multilateral Fund Executive Committee (MFEC), in its meeting on
March 9, 1993, gave final approval to funding of US$11.42 million for ten pre-
appraised subprojects under the grogosed ODS Investment Project. MFEC also gave
Vrmission to proceed for six identified, but not pre-appraised, subprojects for
an equivalent of US$3.32 million which the Bank wil' re-submit at a later stage
to the MFEC for final approval once the projects have been sufficiently prepared
to be pre-appraised. Implementation and funding of these subprojects is subject
to prior MFEC approval. In addition, the MFEC approved funding for (a) an
Institutional Strengthening Prolect (US$209,000), (b)  Technical Assistance to
the Financial Agent. the Land Bank of the Philippinje  (US$100,000).
froiect Obiectives
6.        The objective of the project is to support the Government's program
to phase out ODS by: (a) establishing an efficient mechanism for executing ODS
phaseout projects th.rough local institutions; and (b) implementing an initial
group of cost effective priority subprojects. To achieve this, the project would
provide grant funding to subprojects through a local financial agent, the Land
Bank of the Philippines (LBP).
Proiect Descriotion and Costs
7.        The  project  includes  an  investment  component  and  a  technical
assistance (TA) component. The TA component includes: (a) an Institutional
Strengthening Proiect to strengthen DENR's capability to implement the Country
ODS Phase Out Prc gram; (b) Technical Assistance to the Financial Agent. the Land
Bank of the PhilipRines, to strengthen its capability to appraise and supervise
ODS investment subprojects. The investment component will support sixteen
subprojects in: (a) ODS refrigerant recycling; and (b) conversion to non-ODS
technology in solvents, refrigeration, foam blowing and tobacco puffing 3. A
list of the proposed subprojects is attached in the Technical Annex. Of the
sixteen identified subprojects, ter. s-ubprojects, representing about 85% of the
total project investment cost and about 75% of the total grant amount, have been
pre-appraised. Pre-appraisals for the other six subprojects will be presented to
the MFEC for approval once finalized4.   Technical reviews of the sixteen
subprojects have been completed. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1997.
2/  CP preparation and implementation is being supervised by an Inter-agency Steering Committee chaired
by DE.R A Technical Working Group under the Comriuttee drafted the CP. U  is working with the Ozone Desk
to develop a training and technical assistance program.
2/  Tobacco is puffed to increase its volume and to reduce the nicotine and tar content.
g/  A fee for technology transfer agreements between Filipino firms and international technology
suppliers has not been included in. the incremental cost of subprojects, because contracts are still under
negotiations. This fee will be included in a subsequent ODS investment project.



-3 -
8.        Estimated total project costs are US$23.21 million equivalent. The
cost of the TA component is US$0.309 million, all of which is eligible for OTF
grant funding. The cost of the subprojects is US$ 22.9C million, of which US$
14.74 million are incremental costs eligible for OTF funding, including a
contingency of 15X and a financial agent fee of about 3X of the grant amount.
Incremental costs are defined according to Bank and MFEC guidelines, ie., as the
net present value of incremental economic project costs (investment plus
operating costs net of operating benefits) discounted at 10% in real terms. Firms
with mixed local and foreign (developed country) ownership are eligible for OTF
funding In proportion to their respective share of local ownersbip (see Annex V).
A break-down of project costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. A
disbursement schedule is presented in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events is given in Schedule C.
Prolect Financing
9.        The funds for the TA 'US$0.309 million) and the incremental costs of
investment subprojects (US$14.74 million) would be financed by the proposed OTF
Grant to the Government and would be passed on to eligible subprojects as a grant
to cover the incremental cost portion of totai subproject cost. Subproject
proponents would finance the balance from commercial sources or from the
enterprises' own resources. The financing plan is attached in Schedule A.
Proiect Imolementat-ion
10.       Investment Component: The Ozone Desk of DENR will ensure that ODS
projects are consistent with the Country Program for ODS phaseout in the
Philippines. The Ozone Desk will review each subproject prior to appraisal to
ensure that cost-effective technologies will be applied and that the subproject
conforms to the CP's priorities. All projects will require the Ozone Desk's
endorsement before LBP will start processing applications from firms. LBP will
be responsible for implementing the investment component, including subproject
appraisal, disbursement of OTF funds to the enterprises, aud supervision of
subproject implementation. Funds would flow from the Bank's OTF directly to a
Special Account to be established under this project and from there to the
subprojects. LBP will be responsible for keeping the records of this Special
Account and for submitting the applications for withdrawal and replenishment. For
its services, LBP will receive a fee of about 32 of the subproject grant amount,
one third (1X of amount excluding contingencies) following approval of subproject
by the Bank, anid the remaining two thirds (22 of actually disbursed amounts) pari
passu with disbursement of the grants to the subprojects. LBP would apply
subproject eligibility, appraisal and financing criteria for MP proiects which
are. summarized in the Technical Annex (Annex V). LBP will prepare appraisal
reports in a format acceptable to the Bank and DENR.  TA Conponent: DENR will be
responsible for implementing the Institutional Strengthening Component; the
corresponding grant funds will be channeled directly to DENR. LBP will be
responsible for implementing TA to the Financial Agent; the corxesponding grant
funds will channeled through the Special Account.
11.       The Bank will review each subproject appraisal report to ensure
compliance with MFEC guidelines prior to approving the disbursement of the
subproject's   grant (no free limit as required under the OTF agreement).
SubDroject  proponents  (enterprises)  will  be  responsible  for  subproject
implementation in accordance with sub-grant agreements signed with LBP. LBP would



-4 -
submit a model sub-grant agreement, acceptable to the Bank and to DENR, before
appraisal of the ODS investment Program
12.       Reporting and Monitoring. The Ozone Desk of DENR will be responsible
for monitoring the overall project and ensuring the attainment of ODS phaseout
targets. As such, the Ozone Pesk's monitoring will include reviewing progress and
audit reports prepared by LBP. DENR will submit semi-annual project progress
reports and LBP will submit semi-annual status reports on the grant disbursements
and the progress achieved ia implementing the subprojects, all in such form and
detail which is acceptable to the Bank. Copies of L1P's reports will be submitted
to DENR. Within six months after the end of each fircal year, LBP will submit
an annual audit report on the project account and DENR on the institutional
s'-rengthening component (para 7, a), prepared by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank. The Bank's supervision will include reviewing the progress and autdit
reports, and approving all subproject appraisal reports.
Environmental Considerations
13.       The overall objective of the project is to protect the environment by
reducing the emission of ODS. However, the change to non-ODS technologies or
substitution of ODS with other chemicals may involve other environmental risks,
such as atmospheric releases of substitute chemicals, in particular hydrocarbons,
and water pollution, particularly from use of aqueous base solvents. Counter-
measures to address these risks are included in the subproject proposal, and will
be verified before the issuance of an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC)
which each sponsoring enterprise will have to obtain according to Philippine law.
LBP will ensure that the subpro4ects have the required ECCs, and will submit them
together with the appraisal report to the Bank.
Project SustainabilitY
14.       The project will assist the Government in establishing an efficient
mechanism for developing and funding subprojects to initiate an ODS phase out
program. In order to achieve a sustainable and cost-effective phase out of ODS,
with a broad coverage of the various ODS consuming sectors, it will be essential
- in addition to the enterprise specific support - to formulate and apply
e._onomic policies which create incentives for reducing the import of ODS, and
which also encourage the use of ODS substitutes and non-ODS technologies. Changes
in market prices for ODS and ODS substitutes are expected to be a major incentive
for an accelerated ODS phase out. Prices are expected to increase as the world's
major ODS suppliers are committed to reducing drastically their ODS production.
Simultaneously, these suppliers are developing or are already actively marketing
ODS substitutes. Prices for these substitutes are expected to decrease. In
addition to market forces, some fiscal measures are being recommended in the CP,
including fiscal incentives for ODS substitutes and non-ODS technologies.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
15.       Projects utilizing OTF resources are being developed simultaneously
in Brazil, Thailand, Mexico, China, Malaysia, Turkey, and other countries. No
similar previous projects within the Bank have been completed yet. However,
preparatory steps taken to date indicate the need for flexibility in project
design, the need for well prepared and documented components at the pre-appraisal
stage, in addition to the need for training and institutional strengthening
support.



- 5-
Rationale for Use of Ozone Trust Fund
16.       The project would form part of the Philippines' ODS phase out program.
The proposed project is consistent with the Implementation Guidelines and
Criteria for OTF funding established by the MFEC.
Agreed Actions
17.       The following actions have been agreed upon with the Government and
constitute conditions of effectiveness of the Grant:
(a) the Government of the Philippines, as represented by DENR and the
Department of Finance (DOF), will have entered into a Memorandum of
Agreement with the Land Bank of the Philippines, acceptable to the
Bank, specifying the duties, rights and obligations of LBF as the
financial agent for Montreal Protocol funded projects;
(b) LBP will have issued Operating Policy Guidelines, acceptable to the
Bank and approved by DENR, specifying the p-ocedures to be followed
for the appraisal, financing and supervision of the subprojects to be
financed by the Project Grant and including a model subgrant
agreement.
18.       The fellowing actions have been agreed upon with the Government and
constitute ongoing covenants under the Grant:
(a) LBP, as the financial agent, shall at all times apply the Operating
Policy Guidelines for the purposes of implementing the subprojects.
(b) The Montreal Protocol Secretariat of DENR shall be, throughout the
project execution, duly maintained with the necessary staff and
resources.
(c) Separate project accounts shall be maintained and audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(d) A Special Account will be established by the Government on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
(e)  izior to disbursement, each subproject proposal has to be approved by
the Bank for subprojects with a cost of less than $500,000 and by the
MFEC for subprojects with a cost of $500,000 or above;
(f) Payments could be made for expenditures incurred prior to the date of
signing of the OTF Grant Agreement, but after March 31, 1993, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed 10% of the grant amount ($1,500,000)
and only for subprojects approved by the MFEC or the Bank, as the case
may be;
(g) following the guidelines for the implementation of OTF Grants the
Government would approve public access to this project document
(Memorandum of Director).



-6 -
Proiect Risks
19.       Inadequate technical capability of the implementing agencies, DENR and
LBP, could slow down appraisal and consequently implementation of the
subprojects. This risk is being mitigated by the training component for the LBP
(included in the project) and the Institutional Strengthening Project for the
Ozone Desk (submitted separately to the MFEC).
Project Benefits
20.       The project will help the Government implement an accelerated ODS
phase out program by providing financing for priority subprojects. The project
is expe.,ted to reduce ODS consumption directly by about one-third in ODP weighted
units by 1995 (approximately 800 MT ODP). Further reductions are expected to be
achieved during the same time period at the level of transnational corporation's
and at firms that will realize a cost savings by converting to non-ODS
technologies.  In addition, the project will enable export-oriented firms to
maintain their export markets by adjusting in a timely manner to non-ODS products
as required by importers in-industrialized countries.
Recommendation
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed grant would comply with the relevant
provisions of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund in Resolution 9-15 of the Executive
Directors and I recommend that the Regional Vice President approve it.
Jayasankar Shivakumar
Acting Director
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region
Washington, D.C.
September 27, 1994
Attachments



-7 -
8chedule A
Pgage I ol 2
ML7)T0L 0X          OZEP DmELTU  SUMr_A_w
PE=B OUT InVESThSNT   OJT
Schedule A
ECT COST AND FDGCE  PAN
_Pronoseea
Investment         Net          Total          Financial      O
Costs   Recurrins       Eligible             .4gjt    GrentC
Costs    Incremental                Fee
(4 Yrs)a         Co2tb               (3X)
Preapraised:
-Household Refrigerator                  5.44        -0.86          3.38                           3.99
Foam (4 subprojects)
-Solvents (5 subprojects)                2.30         0.23          2.30                           2.71
-Tobacco (1 subproject)                 11.81       -$.02d          4.00e                          4.72
Subtotal PreaRn,raised                  19.55        -4.65          9.68               0.29       11.42
Identified:
-Household Refrigerator                  2.44         0.00          1.90                           2.24
Compressor (4 subprojects)
-ODS Recycling                           0.91         0.00          0.91                           1.08
(2 subproJects)
Subtotal Identified                      3.35         0.00          2.81               0.08        3.32
T0TAL IVESTMN                           22.90        -4.65          12.49              0.37       14.74
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
- Institutional Strengthening                                                                     0.209
- TA to Financial Agent                                                                           0.100
Subtotal for TA Comonent                0.31         0.00           0.30              0.01       0.309
TOTAL PROJECT                          23.21         -4.65          12.79              0.38      15.049
a/ Discounted at 102. Negative numbers indicate operating savings.
b/ Eligible incremental cost - incremental cost x share of local ownership.
c/ Includes eligible incremental cost, 15% contingency, and 37 fee for financial agent.
d/ Recurring costs over 15 year project economic life.
e/ Incremental investment cost of US$ 8 million, based on depreciated value of existing assets, used in grant
calculation.



-8
Schedule A
Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES
MONTR1AL _PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule A
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Financing2 Plan
Source                       USS
Thousand
eauivalent
OTF Grant                 15,049
Commercial Loans/or        8,161
Enterprise Own Funds
TOTAL                      23.210



-9 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPIFS
MON-TREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule B
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Total procurement will amount to US$15,049,000 for about 16 subprojects
whose procurement will be administered following ICB or the procurement
practices of private industry in the Philippines which the Bank has examined
and found acceptable, consisting at a minimum of the following:
Goods and Works
(i)    contracts over US$ 2 million equivalent (excluding proprietary packages) would be procured
under ICB procedures;
(ii)   contracts between US$200,000 and US$2 equivalent million would be procured on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers from at least
two countries; and
(iii   contracts below US$200,000 would be procured on the basis of comparison of prics quotations
solicited from at leest three qualified suppliers; and
(iv)   proprietary items may be procured directly from the supplier in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Trustee.
Consultants
(iv)   Contracting of Consultants shall be engaged on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981).
Prior Review
Prior review is required for the following oontracts and bid packages:
ti)    over US$ 2 million;
(ii)   for proprietary technology and equipment;
(iii) for contracts above $50,000 for individual consultants and for contracts above US$100,000 with
consulting firms;



-10 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
Disbursement Table
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amot.nts of the OTF Grant
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Gategory:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated        X of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cateaorv                      Dollar Eauivalent      to be Financed
(1)  Subgrants                               14,369,000           100%
(2)  Consultants' services and                 300,000            100X
training (including equipment
and materials related thereto)
(3) Agency fee                                 380,000            100%
TOTAL                                  15,049,000          100X
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule B
Disbursement Schedule
CY 1994          CY 1995       CY 1996    CY 1997
---------     (US$ thousand)------------
Annual                   2,107             7,223         5.117        602
Cumulative               2,107             9,330        14,447      15.049
------------------      ---------(--)-
Cumulative                14%               62%           96%        100%



-11 -
Schedule C
Page 1 of 1
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEP VTING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
Schedule C
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
EvLent      Date           other
a)    Preparation (Time                       24 months
Taken)                                                   ||
b)    Prepared by         DENR with Bank Assistance
(Mme/Messrs. Poppele, Catanach,
Brown, Ritter)
c)    First               August 1992
Presentation to
the Bank
d)    Departure of Bank  11/25/92
Mission
e)    Planned Date for   07/15/94
Negotiations
f)    Planned Date of    01/20/95
Effectiveness
g)    List of Relevant   Not Applicable
PCR's and PPAR's



-12 -
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT MULTICOMPONENT PROJECT
Table of Contents of Revised Technical Annexes
(October 1993)
Annex I        List of Subprojects
Annex II       Description of Subprojects
Annex III      Processing Steps for Subproject
Proposals
Annex IV       Procurement and Disbursement
Arrangements
Annex V        Guidelines for Subproject
Eligibility, Grant Funding, and
Preparation of Appraisal Reports



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
TECHNICAL ANNEX I:
LIST OF SUBPROJECT PROPOSALS
SUMMARY TABLE
Company         End Use          Philippine   Consump-       Annual       Invest-              Net    Proposed
Ownership    tion         Reduction       ment       Recurring           OTF
I  ()     in 1991      in  1995        Cost           Costs        Grant
(ODP MT)    (ODP MT)      (USSM)         (4yrsP)      (USSM)
Preapj..aised                                               ____________
Fortune         Tobacco                 100Y   350           350               11.81        -4.02'        4.72
Tobacco         Fluffing                        CrC-ll       CFC-11
Philacor        Foam Blowing             61S   200           120                8.18         -0.71         1.77
CFC-ll       CFC-11
Conception      Foam                    100X    45            35                0.80         -0.13         0.79
Blowing                         CFC-11       CFC-ll
Sanyo           Foam                     70X    13             9                0.80         -0.01        0.66
8lowing                         CFC-11       CFC-11
Federal         Foam                    100X      5            5                0.66         -0.01         0.77
Electric        Blowing                         CFC-11       CFC-11
Ionic           Solvent                  90X   105           114                0.51          0.24        0.79
Circuits        Cleaning                        CFC113       113/TCA
9 TCA
Pacific         Solvent                  80X    13            15                0.59          0.16        0.71
Semiconduc-    Cleaning                         CFC113       113/TCA
tor                                               2 TCA
Electronic      Solvent                 1002      5            5                0.56          0.04         0.71
Assemblies      Cleaning                        CFC-113      CFC-113
integrated     Solvent                  1002    20            20                0.55        -0.18         0.43
Microelec.      Cleaning                        CFC-113      CFC-113
Solid           Solvent                 1001      4            4                0.09         -0.03         0.07
Circuits        Cleaning                        CFC-113      CFC 113
Subtotal                                        771 ODP      677 COP           19.55         -4.65        11.42
Identified
ASAP            Refrigeration            1002   260 CFC-      55 CFC-           0.42          0.00         0.50
(Recycle)                                      12            12
90 CPC-       8 CFC-
11           11
PASAPI (MAC)   Air-                     1002   600 CFC-       60 CFC-           0.49          0.00        0.58
conditioning                    12           12
Philacor       Refrigeration             612    55 CFC-      0                  1.24          0.00        0.89
12
Conception      Refrigeration           1002      8 CFC-     0                  0.90          0.00         1.06
12
Sanyo           Refrigeration             702     3 CFC-     0                  0.18          0.00         0.15
12
Federal        Refrigeration            1002      2 CFC-     0                  0.12          0.00         0.14
Electric                                        12
Subtotal                                        1018 iOP    123 COP             3.35          0.00         3.32
GR~ T~~!I. I     T__              l 789  DP    800 CODP          22.90 _ _.65 _14.74
DLscounted at 102. Negative numbers indicate operating savings.
Includes 152 contingency and 32 fee for financial institution
Recurring cost over 15 year project economic life.
A Incremental investment cost of US$ 8.02 million, based on calculation for depreciated value of existing
assets, used in calculation of grant eligibility.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX II
DESCRIPTION OF SUBPROJECTS
The proposed project consists of an investment and a technical
assistance component. This technical annex provides: a detailed description
of these componencs.
I. DESCRIPTION OF INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
A. PRE-APPRAISED AND APPROVED SUBPROJECTS
MFEC has given final approval to the funding of the following ten pre-
appraised subprojects.
TOBACCO EXPANSION
Conversion of Tobacco Fluffing Process from CFC-ll to CO, at Fortune Tobacco
co rporat ion
This project will eliminate the 350 MT consumption of CFC-11 for tobacco
fluffing at Fortune Tobacco Corporation. The CFC-ll fluffing process will be
replaced with a carbon dioxide-based system. The project will also eliminate
a negligible amount of HCFC-22 used as a refrigerant in one component of the
fluffing process. Since Fortune Tobacco is the only company in the
Philippines that uses CFCs to fluff tobacco, eliminating its use of CFC-ll
will simultaneously eliminate all CFC use in the Philippine tobacco fluffing
sector. The proposed project addresses only the phaseout of CFC-11 in
Fortune's tobacco fluffing process and does not provide assistance to other
parts of Fortune's cigarette manufacturing operations.
FOAM BLOWING
Conversion of Blowing Agents Used in Refrigerator Insulating Foam at
Philippines Appliance Corporation
This OTF request is for funding Phase I of a three pha_e program that
will lead to the phase out of over 200 MT of CFC blowing agents for production
of the polyurethane insulation in the refrigerator cabinets manufactured at
Philacor. In Phase I, Philacor's foam formulation will be adjusted to reduce
CFC-11 consumption by up to 50% resulting in elimination of 120 MT CFC-11
consumption p.a. In addition, its foaming operations will be converted to
equiT ant capable of processing high pressure foam formulations. The high
pressure equipment improves performance of the low CFC formulation and will be
required in the future phases to a complete phaseout of ODS in foam
production. Following the availability of high pressure HCFC foam
formulations, Phase I will also include batch testing of these formulation in
preparation for a complete CFC phaseout in a subsequent Phase II project. As



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
HCFC consumption is controlled by MP, the final phase of the project will be
conversion to a non-ODS, such as HFC-134a, that requires high pressure
handling.
Conversion of Blowing Agents Used in Refrigerator Insulating Foam at
Conception Industries
'his OTF request is for funding Phase I of a three phase program that
will lead to the phaseout of over 65 MT of CFC blowing agents p.a. for
production of the polyurethane insulation in the refrigerator cabinets
manufactured at Conception Industries 2-13
. In Phase I, Conception's foam formulation will be adjusted to reduce CFC-ll
consumption by up to 50% resulting in elimination of 35 MT CFC-ll consumption
p.a. In addition, its foaming operations will be converted to equipment
capable of processing high pressure foam formulations. The high pressure
equipment improves performance of the low CFC formulation and will be required
in the future phases to a complete phaseout of ODS in foam production.
Following the availability of high pressure HCFC foam formulations, Phase I
will also include batch testing of these formulation in preparation for a
complete CFC phaseout in a subsequent Phase II project. As HCFC consumption
is controlled by MP, the final phase of the project will be conversion to a
non-ODS, such as HFC-134a, that requires high pressure handling.
Conversion of Blowing Agents Used in Refrigerator Insulatinz Foam at Sanyo
Philippines
This OTF request is for funding Phase I of a three phase program that
will lead to the phaseout of over 20 MT of CFC blowing agents p.a. for
production of the polyurethane insulation in the refrigerator cabinets
manufactured at Sanyo. In Phase I, Sanyo Philippines's (Sanyo) foam
formulation will be adjusted to reduce CFC-ll consumption by up to 50%
resulting in eliminat.on of 9 MT CFC-ll consumption p.a. In addition, its
foaming operations will be converted to equipment capable of processing high
pressure foam formulations. The high pressure equipment improves performance
of the low CFC formulation and will be required in the future phases to a
complete phaseout of ODS in foam production. Following the availability of
high pressure HCFC foam formulations, Phase I will also include batch testing
of these formulations in preparation for a complete CFC phaseout in a
subsequent Phase II project. As HCFC consumption is controlled by MP, the
final phase of the project will be conversion to a non-ODS, such as HFC-134a,
that requires high pressure handling.
Conversion of Blowing Agents Used in Refrigerator Insulating Foam at Federal
Electric Company
This OTF request is for funding Phase I of a three phase program that
will lead to the phaseout of over 10 MT of CFC blowing agents p.a. for
production of the polyurethane insulation in the refrigerator cabinets
manufactured at Federal Electric. In Phase I, Federal Electric's foam
formulation will be adjusted to reduce CFC-ll consumption by up to 50%
resulting in elimination of 5 MT CFC-ll consumption p.a. In addition, its
foaming operations will be converted to equipment capable of processing high
pressure foam formulations. The high pressure equipment improves performance
of the low CFC formulation and will be required in the future phases to a
complete phaseout of ODS in foam production. Following the availability of
high pressure HCFC foam formulations, Phase I will also include batch testing
of these formulation in preparation for a complete CFC phaseout in a
subsequent Phase II project. As HCFC consumption is controlled by MP, the



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
final phase of the project will be conversion to a non-ODS, such as HFC-134a,
that requires high pressure handling.
SOLVENT CLEANING
Conversion of Electronic Cleaning Process from CFC-113/Alcohol Blended
Solvents to Semi-Aqueous and Aaueous Cleaning Solvents at Ionics Circuits
Incornorated
This project will eliminate the use of CFC-113 and TCA in the cleaning of
electronic circuit cards, computer disk drives, and associated electronic
equipment at Ionics Circuits Incorporated (Ionic). The phaseout will be
accomplished by dismantling existing vapor degreasers and installing aqueous
and semi-aqueous cleaning equipment. Ionics currently uses eight batch vapor
degreasers in its cleaning operations. The project will replace these eight
cleaning machines with one in-line aqueous cleaning machine and four batch
semi-aqueous cleaning machines. The project also provides for engineering
support and training, exhaust system improvements, and appropriate wastewater
treatment facilities. The conversion to non-ODS technology will eliminate
annual consumption of 98 MT of CFC-113 and 73 MT of TCA.  This represents a
reduction in national consumption levels of almost 40 percent and 5 percent,
respectively.
Conversion of Electronic Cleaning Process from CFC-113 and 1.1.1
Trichloroethane (TCA or Methyl Chloroform) Solvents to Low-Emission Processes
using non-ODS Organic Solvents at Pacific Semiconductors Incorporated
This project will eliminate the use of CFC-113 and TCA in the cleaning of
electronic components, metallic lead frames, and other metal parts at Pacific
Semiconductors Incorporated (Pacific). The phaseout will be accomplished by
dismantling existing vapor degreasers and installing low-emissions vapor
degreasers. Pacific currently uses two in-line CFC-113 vapor degreasers and
three batch TCA vapor degreasers. The project will replace these five
cleaning machines with five batch low-emission vapor degreasers. The cleaning
solvent chosen for use in the machines will likely be perchloroethylene,
dichloromethane, or another organic solvent. The project also provides for an
automatic hoist and programmable controller for each vapor degreaser,
engineering support and training, and exhaust system improvements. The
conversion to non-ODS technology will eliminate annual consumption of 11.5 MT
of CFC-113 and 13 MT of TCA. This represents a reduction in national
consumption levels of almost 5 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.
Conversion of Electronic Cleaning Process from CFC-113/Alcohol Blended
Solvents to Semi-Agueous and Agueous Cleaning Solvents at Electronic
Assemblies Incorporated
This project will eliminate the use of CFC-113 in the cleaning of
electronic circuit cards at Electronic Assemblies Incorporated (EAI). The
phaseout will be accomplished by dismantling existing vapor degreasers and
installing aqueous and semi-aqueous cleaning equipment. EAI currently uses
three batch CFC-113 vapor degreasers in its cleaning operations. The project
will replace these three batch machines with one in-line aqueous cleaning
machine and one in-line semi-aqueous cleaning machine. The project also
provides for engineering support and training, exhaust system improvements,
and appropriate wastewater treatment facilities. The conversion to non-ODS
technology will eliminate annual consumption of 4.8 MT of CFC-113. This
represents a reduction in national consumption levels of almost 2 percent.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Conversion of Electronic Cleaning Process from CFC-113/A cohol Blended
Solvents to High-Purity Water Cleaning at Integrated Microelectronics
This project will eliminate the use of CFC-113 in the cleaning of a wide
variety of electronic devices and metal parts at Integrated Microelectronics
Incorporated (IMI).  Products manufactured by IMI include pulse transformers,
coils, hard disk drives, and spare parts for disk drives. The phaseout will
be accomplished using two distinct alternative processes. IMI currently uses
one in-line CFC-113 vapor degreaser and one batch CFC-113 vapor degreaser in
its cleaning operations. The project will replace the high volume in-line
vapor degreaser with a high-volume in-line aqueous cleaning machine, while
retrofitting the batch vapor degreaser for use with a non-ODS chlorinated
solvent. The chlorinated solvent to be used will most likely be methylene
chloride or trichloroethylene, and the retrofits will aid in reducing
emissions from the machine to extremely low levels. The project also provides
for engineering support and training, exhaust system improvements, and
appropriate wastewater treatment facilities. The conversion to non-ODS
technology will eliminate an annual consumption of 18.7 MT of CFC-113. This
represents a reduction in national consumption levels of almost 8 percent.
Conversion of Electronic Cleaning Process from CFC-113/Alcohol Blended
Solvents to Semi-Aqueous Cleaning Solvents at Solid Circuits
This project will eliminate the use of CFC-113 in the cleaning of
specialty electronic components at Solid Circuits Incorporated (Solid). The
phaseout will be accomplished by dismantling Solid's existing batch CFC-113
vapor degreaser and installing a batch semi-aqueous cleaning machine. The
project also provides for a closed-loop water rinsing system, a drying oven,
exhaust system improvements, and engineering support and training. The
conversion to non-ODS technology will eliminate an annual consumption of 3.8
MT of CFC-113.  This represents a reduction in national consumption levels of
1.5 percent.
B. IDENTIFIED PROJECTS with PERMISSION TO PROCEED
MFEC gave permission to proceed for the following six identified, but not
pre-appraised, subprojects for an equivalent of US$3.32 million. The Bank will
re-submit these subprojects at a later stage to the MFEC for final approval,
once the projects have been sufficiently prepared to be pre-appraised.
Implementation and funding of these subprojects is subject to prior MFEC
approval.
IDENTIFIED - REFRIGERANT RECYCLING
Establishment of a Central Recycling Scheme in Metro Manila
This OTF request is for paermission to proceed on final preparation of a
project proposal to develop a central recycling scheme in Metro Manila. The
project would establish a central CFC recycling scheme in Metro Manila to
reduce consumption of CFC-12 by 55 Mr, CFC-ll by 8 MT and HCFC-22 by 40 MT.
The Appliance Service Association of the Philippines (ASAP) is developing a
pla1u to run the center by providing users with dedicated recovery cylinders
for the collection of refrigerant. Recovered refrigerant would be bought by
the scheme and reclaimed refrigerant would be sold to users for about 15X less
than the market price for imported refrigerant.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Establishment of a MACs Recycling Scheme
This OTF request is for permission to proceed on final preparation of a
project proposal to develop a mobile air-conditioning recycling scheme in the
Philippines. The Philippines Association of Suppliers and Parts Installers
(PASAPI) is developing a plan to purchase 100 MAC refrigerant recovery
machines and lease them at nominal rates to MAC service centers in the
Philippines; sixty in the Metro Manila area, 20 in Cebu City, 10 in Davao, and
10 in Cagayan de Oro. The operation of these units would be monitored and the
data obtained would form the basis of promotion to the remaining MACs service
centers in the country.
IDENTIFIED - REFRIGERATION
Engineering Design and Assistance for the Use of HFC-134a Refrigerant in
Household Refrigerators at the Philippines Appliance CorDoration
This OTF request is for permission to proceed on final preparation of a
project proposal to develop HFC-134a refrigerator production capability at
Philippines Appliances Corporation (Philacor - 61% Philippine owned). The
technical program for the project, especially the technology transfer
arrangements, are being completed by the enterprise in accordance with the
OORG reviewer's comments. Phase I of the project will be ready for submission
to the next EC meeting at which time funding will be requested. Phase I of
the project would lead to the conversion of an existing CFC based refrigerator
manufacturing facility at Philacor to production of refrigerators using HFC-
134a as the working fluid. In Phase I, about 650 prototype and test
refrigerators would be produced and recovery/reclamation procedures would be
adopted for servicing in-plant defective CFC-12 refrigerators. Phase I would
provide equipment needed to convert one of Philacor's three production lines
to the manufacturer of HFC-134a units. Equipment for the remaining two lines
and the incremental operating costs for production of HFC-134a refrigerators
would be included in a Phase II project. The full project when-completed
would provide a major indigenous source of non-ODS domestic refrigerators for
the Philippine market. Technology for the non-ODS refrigerators would be
transferred by the Philacor's parent company, General Electric.
Engineering Design and Assistance for the Use of HFC-134a Refrigerant in
Household Refrigerators at Conception Industries
This project will fund engineering development of the manufacturing
process for HFC-134 household refrigerators at Conception Industries. The
project will be Lideled after the Philacor project described above.
Conception currently consumes 8 ODP-weighted MT of CFC-12 and produces 70,000
refrigerators per year. Over the life of the project, however, Conception
will avoid using even greater annual quantities of CFC-12 because the demand
for refrigerators and other household appliances in the Philippines is
expected to grow by 15 percent per year. It is projected that Conception will
annually save and average of 1.05 ODP-weighted MT in Phase I and 17.18 ODP-
weighted MT in Phase II.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Engineering Design and Assistance for the Use of HFC-134a Refrigerant in
Household Refrigerators at Sanyo PhiliRRines
This uroject will fund engineering development of the manufacturing
process for HFC-134a HFC-134 household refrigerators at Sanyo Philippines
(Sanyo). The project will be modeled after the Philacor project described
above. The project will result in the phaseout of Sanyo's 4 MT consumption of
CFC-12 based on its 1991 production of 24,000 refrigerators.
Engineering Design and Assistance for the Use of HFC-134a Refrigerant in
Household Refrigerators at the Federal Electric Company
This project will fund engineering development of the manufacturing
process for HFC-134 household refrigerators at Federal Electric Company.
Federal Electric currently consumes 2 MT of CFC-12 and produces 8,000
refrigerators per year. Over the life of the project, however, Federal
Electric will avoid using even greater annual quantities of CFC-12 because the
demand for refrigerators and other household appliances in the Philippines is
expected to grow by 15 percent per year. it is projected that Federal
Electric will annually save an average of 0.25 MT in Phase I and 5.15 MT in
Phase II.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
II. DESCRIPTION OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
The TA conmonents include: (a) an Institutional Strenithening Proiect to
strengthen DENR's capability to implement the Country ODS Phase Out Program,
(b) Technical Assistance to the Financial Agent. the Land Bank of the
Philippines to enhance its capability to appraise and supervise ODS investment
projects.
Institutional Strengthening Pro-ect (ISP)
A Montreal Protocol Secretariat (the 'Ozone Desk') was established in the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources in 1992 to facilitate and
coordinate projects and policies to meet the Philippines MP' obligations.
Ozone Desk activities are supported by a Program Steering Committee (PSC) and
a Technical Working Group (TWG), each comprised of relevant government and
industry representatives. Currently, the Ozone Desk is operating with DENR
staff which has been assigned part-time to MP tasks.
Under the ISP, grant funding will be made available to DENR to cover the
incremental costs of setting up the Ozone Desk with appropriate office
equipment and to cover the annual operating costs for a period of three years.
The Philippine proposal is follows the guidelines of the MFEC for
institutional strengthening projects (UNEP/OzL.Pro/ExCom/7/20) and the
requested amount of US$209,0000 is well below the threshold amount of
US$300,000 established for category 2 countries such as the Philippines.
Technical Assistance to Land Bank of the Philioinines (LBP)
Under the proposed ODS Investment Project LBP will be responsible for
channeling funds from the World Bank administered Ozone Trust Fund to eligible
subprojects. The proposed scheme will entail three principal functions to be
performed by LBP:
Mi)    Appraisal of subproject proposals;
(ii)   Disbursement of OTF grants to subprojects;
(iii)  Supervision of subproject implementation.
While LBP has substantial experience with the financial aspects and the
general technical aspects of subprojects, it lacks technical capability in the
specific field of ODS phaseout projects to adequately appraise and supervise
such projects. The proposed TA will address this issue and help build up LBP's
technical expertise for the appraisal and supervision of ODS phaseout
projects through training of LBP's staff.
Under the proposed TA for an amount of US$100,000 the following
activities would be funded:
(i)    On the job training of LBP staff: Hiring of local ODS consultants
who would work with LBP staff on the job, assisting them in ODS
specific aspects of their appraisal and supervision work, and
initially supervising the quality of their work.
(ii)   In-house seminars for LBP staff: Design and implementation of in-
house seminars on Montreal Protocol projects and ODS specific
technical aspects.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
(iii)  External seminars for LBP staff: Sponsoring of the participation
of concerned project officers in relevant semitiars and
international conferences.
(iv)   Consulting services of expatriate experts: Hiring of short-term
experts on a case-by-case basis to address highly specialized
technical issues in ODS phase out projects. Those experts would
always work with LBP staff for transfer of their know how.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
GOVERNMENT OF PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX III: PROCESSING STEPS FOR SUBPROJECT PROPOSALS
The following is a summary of key processing steps for investment projects
requesting OTF funding which LBP will elaborate in Operating Policy Guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.
a. Subproject Identification: DENR, LBP, and interested
enterprises are entitled to identify possible ODS p.tase out
subprojects.
b.  Subvroiect preparation: enterprises will be responsible for
preparing pre-investment studies. It may request assistance
from DENR in preparing subprojects.
c. DENR endorsement of Proposal: DENR will endorse each
subproject prior to appraisal to ensure that the subproject
proposal conforms to priorities established under the
Country Program.
d. Suboroject appraisal: LBP will appraise subprojects based
on guidelines in Annex V. LBP would prepare appraisal
summaries and reports in a format acceptable to the Bank.
e.  Subgrant/Loan Dackaging: LBP would offer a commercial loan
to be provided from LBP's own sources to in addition to the
subgrant for those subprojects where the total subproject
costs exceeds the subgrant amount. The subproject proponent
would be free to accept the financing or to seek loan
financing from other sources. Terms and conditions for this
complementary financing would typically follow commercial
practice. A confirmed financing plan will be required as
part of the appraisal report.
f.  DENR endorsement of Apuraisal: DENR will endorse each
appraisal summary and report received from LBP.
g. Technical review and Bank endorsement of Anpraisal: The
Bank will review each appraisal report prepared by LBP,
oversee the technical reviews of subproject proposals by
external reviewers, and ensure that subprojects are
consistent with MFEC guidelines (no free limit in
accordance with MFEC guidelines). Once endorsed, the Bank
will submit subproject proposals for over $500,000 to the
MFEC for approval of funding.
h. Suboroject approval: For subprojects over US$500,000, MFEC
approval is required for each project. MFEC approval is not
required for subprojects of less than US$500,000 which are
approved by the Bank. (This step can be omitted for the 12
MFEC approved subprojects).
i. Disbursement of Subgrant: Upon OTF grant effectiveness,
receipt of a withdrawal application from LBP, and approval



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
of the subproject, the Bank will disburse to the Special
Account (see Annex IV). LBP would then disburse from the
Special Account to the subproject in accordance with agreed
disbursement and procurement procedures (see Annex IV).
J. Under certain circumstances LBP may opt for Disbursement in
Tranches. typically for large subprojects (over US$0.5
million) with a large share (proposed minimum threshold:
over 50%) of subgrant funding for incremental operating
costs (as opposed to investment-costs), or for subprojects
where for technical reasons investments take place in two
or more phases. For such subprojects, LBP propose a
disbursement plan. Disbursement under each tranche would be
based on receipt of progress reports satisfactory to LBP
(see below).
k.  Procurement:  LBP will ales  be responsible for ensuring
that beneficiary enterprises follow the agreed procurement
guidelines. (see Annex IV).
1.  SubDroiect Implementation:  Each enterprise will be
responsible for subproject implementation. For that
purpose, it will sign a sub-grant agreement with LBP upon
receipt of the subgrant. The agreement will spell out the
responsibilities of the enterprise and its commitment to
undertake the necessary activities agreed upon in the
subproject proposal in order to achieve the intended ODS
reduction.
m.  Progress reports: Enterprises will be responsible for
preparing progress reports and submitting them to LBP (with
copy to DENR). As a minimum, the enterprise would submit
one subproject progress report at the time when the
proposed investment activities have been implemented and
the new installations are operating. In cases where
multiple disbursement tranches have been agreed, the
enterprise would submit one progress report prior to each
tranche. The final enterprise progress reports have to be
acceptable to DENR and the Bank.
n.  Subnroiect Sunervision: LBP will have prime responsibility
for supervising implementation of subprojects while
disbursing the subgrant to the subprojects. Even after the
subgrant has been fully disbursed, LBP will review and
approve the progress reports submitted by the enterprises
and verify them. LBP's responsibility for sutprcject
supervision ends after full disbursement and the approval
of the final enterprise progress report acceptable to DENR
and the Bank.
o.  Subproiect Monitoring: DENR has the right to monitor the
progress of MP funded subprojects in fulfillment of its
overall responsibility for the implementation of the MP ODS
phase out Country Program.
p.  Auditing and Reportina- LBP will submit semi-annual reports
on the status of the grant disbursements and the progress
of the subprojects, acceptable to the Bank. Copies of these
reports will be submitted to DENR. LBP will also submit an



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
annual audit report on the subproject account prepared by
an independent auditor acceptable to tle Bank.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINE
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX IV: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
A. Procurement
1.        Procurement of goods, works, and services will be in accordance
with relevant Bank Guidelines. LBP will be responsible for ensuring that
subproject beneficiaries follow the agreed procurement guidelines. It will
help enterprises arrange procurement (international and local); where
necessary, procurement should be handled by qualified procurement agencies
authorized by the Government and acceptable to the Bank. For International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), documents will be prepared following the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents, and domestic preference for goods manufactured in
Philippines will apply according to the existing procurement guidelines of the
Bank.
2.        LBP will satisfy itself that the goods, works, and services to be
purchased are for the investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, by
ensuring that the grant recipient has followed efficient and economic
procurement practices in accordance with those of the minimum thresholds
agreed (see following list):
(a) For Procurement the following procedures would apply:
Goods and Works
(i)       contracts over US$ 2 million equivalent (excluding
proprietary packages) would be procured under ICB
procedures;
For contracts below the ICB threshold, procurement would follow the
procurement practices of private industry in Philippines which the
Bank has examined and found acceptable, consisting at a minimum of
the following:
(ii)      contracts between US$200,000 and US$2 equivalent million
would be procured on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three qualified
suppliers from at least two countries; and
(iii)     contracts below US$200,000 would be procured on the basis
of comparison of price quotati.ns solicited from at least
three qualified suppliers; and
(iv)      proprietary items may be procured directly from the
supplier in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Trustee.
Consultants
(iv) Contracting of Consultants shall be engaged on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" (August
1981).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(b) Prior review is required for the following contracts and bid
packages:
(i) over US$ 2 million;
(ii) for proprietary technology and equipment;
(iii) for contracts above $50,000 for individual consultants and for
contracts above US$100,000 with consulting firms;
B. Disbursement
3.        Project funds are expected to be disbursed according to the
following standard disbursement schedule: 14% in 1994, 48% in 1995, 34% in
1996, and 4% in 1997. Closing date for the project is June 30, 1998. A Special
Account would be established under this project to facilitate disbursement of
the OTF grant. LBP will be responsible for keeping the records of this Special
Account and for submitting the applications for withdrawal and replenishment.
The following disbursement guidelines have been agreed upon:
(i) Between Bank and LBP:
Disbursement will follow the procedures given in the Disbursement
Handbook published by the Bank in 1992, and in the Disbursement
Letter which will be issued after the Grant has been signed. Once
the Grant Agreement has been approved and is effective, and after
receipt of a withdrawal application from LBP, the Bank will make
an initial deposits of up to US$ 1.5 million into a Special
Account which LBP would open. Replenishment of this Special
Account and all other disbursements would be made against full
documentation, except for expenditures under contracts valued
below US$200,000 for which the Bank will accept Statements of
Ex enditures (SOE). Supporting documents for SOEs including
contracts, procurement documentation, and evidence of payment
should be kept in a central location for examination by
independent auditors and Bank staff during supervision missions.
(ii) Between LBP and Subnroject:
Up to US$ 2 million per contract, LBP will disburse to the
subproject proponent for eligible expenses without prior review
by the Bank (see procurement guidelines).
Disbursement in Tranches: For large projects (over US$0.5
million) with a large share (proposed minimum threshold: over
50%) of grant funding for operating costs (as opposed to
investment costs), LBP should propose a disbursement plan in two
or more tranches. Release of the tranches would be based on
receipt of progress reports satisfactory to LBP and the Ozone
Desk.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX V: GUIDELINES FOR SUBPROJECT ELIGIBILITY. GRANT FUNDING. AND
PREPARATION OF APPRAISAL REPORTS
The following is a summary of guidelines for subproject eligibility, grant
funding and appraisal reports of subprojects requesting funding from the Ozone
Trust Fund; these guidelines are derived from Guidelines issued by the
Multilateral Fund Executive Committee and by the World Bank.
A.  Subproject Eligibility
1.        Subprojects should be on priority list included in the Country
Program or should be identified by DENR as essential to achieve the objectives
of ODS phase-out in the Philippines. Subprojects should have direct and
demonstrable results in reducing ODS consumption in the country. They should
be cost effective and be based on environmentally sound technologies to
substitute for or recycle ODS.
2.        Successful implementation of subprojects may sometimes depend
directly on appropriate policies and regulations. In these cases, these
policies should be addressed in the appraisal report for consideration by the
MFEC. In general, however, overall economic and industrial policy reforms are
not to be addressed in the context of subprojects but in the ODS Country
Program as approved by the MFEC.
B. Guidelines for Grant Funding
3.        OTF funding is a grant to the enterprise/agency/institution
implementing the subproject. The grant is calculated in economic terms for
the "incremental costs" as elaborated below. Methodology for calculating
incremental costs should be consistent with eligibility as defined by MFEC and
with the Bank's interpretation of incremental costs.
4.        Determination of Incremental Costs:
(a) Definition. Incremental costs are defined as the net present value
of incremental economic subproject costs (investment capital plus
operating costs net of operating benefits) discounted at the
economic cost of capital in the country (10% will be used in
Philippines) in constant economic prices over the economic life of
the subproject. When appropriate, risks associated with technology,
market and financing of undertaking the subproject should be taken
into consideration.
(b) Co-financing. In cases where the subproject proponent has to put up
its own capital (or commercial loans) to co-finance part of the
subproject costs, the necessity for providing sufficient financial
incentive to undertake the subproject should be considered, i.e.
enterprise obtains an acceptable return on its own capital. The
Grant amount could then be determined in such a way that the
Economic Rate or Return on the risk capital is 10% (real terms).
For comparison, also a financial rate of return for the subproject
should be calculated. If the financial rate of return differs
substantially from the ERR (e.g. because of major distortions of
market prices) and would be unacceptably low for the enterprise,



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 4
the grant amount may be determined based on a u;inimum FRR. Such
situation should be raised as an issue in the EPS/appraisal report.
The minimum FRR should be determined based on an objective
assessment of the country's local financial sector and should
correspond to the best judgement of a reasonable return on capital
expectation within the country's industrial sector. In many cases
subproject proponents will view ODS phaseout investments as
necessary business costs and may not require financial incentives
in addition to a grant for incremental costs.
(c) Ownership. An enterprise/subproject is eligible for funding in
direct proportion to the percentage of local ownership of the
enterprise.
(d) Exports. A subproject is eligible for funding except those located
in a "free zone" and producing for exports only.
(e) Operating Costs and Savings. Under present MFEC guidelines,
recurring costs net of operational savings are eligible for grant
funding only for the first 4 years of project operation.
Reimbursements for longer periods have to be approved on a case by
case basis.
(f) Duties and taxes. Import duties and other direct taxes are not
eligible for grant funding. The recipient Government should agree
in the Grant Agreement to exempt imports under this project from
import duties. (Important issues related to the exemption of taxes
and duties should be addressed in the appraisal report for sub-
projects).
C.   Suburolect Priority and Unit Abatement Costs
5.        Subprojects with the most cost effective technology and with the
lowest unit abatement cost of ODS in the shortest period of time in terms of
global impact should receive priority. Relative cost effectiveness is
measured by "unit abatement cost", a comparative index defined by the
following:
A - C(F) + (OC-OS)
w
Where:
A  -   Unit abatement cost, $/kg ODP saved/year (at full operation)
C  -   Incremental capital cost, including all initial one time costs
such as technology, training
F  -   Capital recovery factor; the annualized capital cost charges,
discounted at a standard discount rate of 10 per year, over the
economic life of the project.
OC-  Annual Operating Costs at full operation
OS - Annual Operating benefits at full operation
W  -   Quantity of ODS saved annually expressed as ODP units
6.        The purpose of unit abatement cost calculation is to give a
relative ranking of projects across countries and within same sector. Lower
unit abatement costs correspond to higher priority in cost effectiveness. The
unit abatement cost is calculated at standard discount rates to facilitate
cross country comparisons.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 4
D. Elements of the Subrroiect ADpraisal
LBP would prepare appraisal reports along the following guidelines in a format
acceptable to the Bank, including as a minimum the following points:
7.        SubRroiect scoge - including a full description of the proposed
technology and the source of technology supply. In selected cases, description
should refer to technical cooperation agreements between the enterprise and an
international technology supplier. Where necessary, the description should
distinguish between components relating to ODS phase out directly and other
components, such as expansion of output or product upgrading which are not
eligible for OTF grant funding.
8.        Schedule and auantity of ODS reduction - (expressed as ODS and
ODP), which will be phased out as a direct result of the subproject, on annual
and total basis.
9.        Subgroiect costs - divided into (a) components relating to ODS
phase out and (b) other components. Costs should be broken down into
investment and operating costs, costs eligible for OTF funding, foreign
exchange and local costs, and expenditures already incurred for which
retroactive financing will be requested.
10.       Review of technical feasibility of the subnroiect - to determine
the soundness of the technical proposal, based on local and international
experience.
11.       Economic and financial-feasibility of the subRroiect - to determine
the economic and financial soundness of the subproject. The methodology would
follow standard Bank methodology and the specific guidelines for OTF funded
projects. Any significant difference between FRR and ERR should be explained.
Any policy distortion that effects the successful implementation of the
subproject or effecting the implementation of the country's ODS CP should be
identified, analyzed and appropriate recommendations made for consideration of
the MFEC.
12.       Financial analysis of enterDrise - to determine the soundness of
the subproject proponent by using a set of minimum financial indicators which
reflect the enterprise's financial viability and its ability to implement the
subproject. The indicators should be determined based on local conditions and
should be consistent with commercial practice in the country.
13.       Financing arrangements - description of sources, terms and
conditions, divided into (a) incremental costs related to ODS phase out to be
financed as an OTF grant, (b) amount to be provided by enterprise from its own
resources; and (c) local and/or foreign loans to be financed through
commercial loans from local and/or foreign institutions (at commercial
interest rates). The financing plan should be confirmed at the time of
appraisal.
14.       Disbursement Plan - the amount and schedule of disbursements,
including, where applicable, the conditions for disbursement under multiple
tranches, e.g. completion of certain measures and submission of satisfactory
progress reports.
15.       Subnrolect implementation arrangements - description of management,
engineering and technology acquisition, procurement, installation, operation,



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 4
marketing, disassembling of phased out ODS equipment (to ensure that it cannot
be reused) and schedule for all implementation steps.
16.       Environmental aspects - description of environmentally critical
aspects of the subproject and measures to address the environmental risks.
Furthermore, a certification that the subproject proponent has complied with
local environmental regulations has to be attached to the appraisal report.
17.       Reporting requirements - description of the scope, the number and
the timing of progress reports and other information which the subproject
proponent has to submit to LBP (with copy to DENR), according to the practice
applied by LBP in similar subprojects. As a minimum, the enterprise would
submit one subproject progress report at the time when the proposed investment
activities have been implemented and the new installations are operating. In
cases where multiple disbursement tranches have been agreed upon, the
enterprise would submit one progress report prior to each tranche. The
enterprise would maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
resources and expenditures in respect to the sub-project.
18.       Subgrant Agreement - attached to the appraisal report, LBP would
submit a draft agreement between LBP and the subproject proponent, based on a
model agreement approved by the Bank prior to effectiveness of the OTF Grant
Agreement. The subgrant agreement spells out the responsibilities of the
subproject proponent and sanctions in case of non-compliance.



