                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: ICR2910



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-90994 TF-92174)



                                        ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                   PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
                    (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)

                                       FOR A

          VILLAGE AND NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                   April 30, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
MNC04
Middle East and North Africa Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2013)
                               Currency Unit = NIS (New Israeli Shekel)
                                    US$1.00 = NIS 3.51960
                                    US$1.00 = €0.732145
                                    US$1.00 = SDR 0.650178

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 – June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BIA        Beneficiary Impact Assessment             NPV     Net Present Value
CBO        Community-Based Organization              OC      Oversight Consultant
CDD        Community-Driven Development              O&M     Operation and Maintenance
EMSRP-II   Second Emergency Municipal Services       OP      Operational Policy
           Rehabilitation Project                    PA      Palestinian Authority
ERR        Economic Rate of Return                   PAD     Project Appraisal Document
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management       PCF     Post-Conflict Fund
           Framework                                 PDO     Project Development Objective
FY         Financial Year                            PMT     Project Management Team
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results     PRDP    Palestinian Reform and
           Report                                            Development Plan
IFR        Interim Financial Report                  PSG     Program Support Group
JPSG       Program Support Group                     TFGWB   Trust Fund for Gaza and the
JSC        Joint Services Council                            West Bank
JSCPD      Joint Services Council for Planning and   TTL     Task Team Leader
           Development                               UNDP    United Nations Development
LGU        Local Government Unit                             Programme
MDLF       Municipal Development and Lending Fund    VAT     Value-added Tax
MDP        Municipal Development Program             VC      Village Council
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation                 VNDP    Village and Neighborhood
MOLG       Ministry of Local Government                      Development Project
MTR        Mid-term Review                           WBG     West Bank and Gaza
N/A        Not Applicable




                               Vice President: Inger Andersen
                             Country Director: Steen Lau Jorgensen
                              Sector Manager: Franck Bousquet
                         Project Team Leader: Lina Abdallah
                            ICR Team Leader: Lina Abdallah
                                  ICR Author: Christian Eghoff
                                       West Bank and Gaza
                          Village and Neighborhood Development Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................19
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................30
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................30
  6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................33
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........34
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................35
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................36
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................48
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............62
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................64
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................73
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................81
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................88
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................89


MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          GZ-Village and
Country:                West Bank and Gaza      Project Name:             Neighborhood
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P104257                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-90994,TF-92174
ICR Date:               04/16/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PALESTINIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          AUTHORITY
Original Total
                        USD 10.25M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 10.23M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Project Management Team in Ministry of Local Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/17/2007     Effectiveness:             06/02/2008        10/24/2008
Appraisal:            01/15/2008     Restructuring(s):                            03/20/2012
Approval:             04/22/2008     Mid-term Review:           04/01/2010        04/04/2011
                                     Closing:                   04/30/2012        10/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     15                  15
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 14                  14
Other social services                                                 54                  54
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              14                  14
Sub-national government administration                                 3                    3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                    50                  50
Social Inclusion                                                      25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Steen Lau Jorgensen                  A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Franck Bousquet                      Inger Andersen
Project Team Leader:       Lina Abdallah                        Meskerem Brhane
ICR Team Leader:           Lina Abdallah
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Eghoff


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was: within a fragile context, to promote a
coordinated development approach which builds the capacity of communities to plan for
and manage development resources.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Percentage of activities identified through the CDPs that receive funding from
Indicator 1 :
                  other sources.
Value
quantitative or   0%                        20%                N/A             23.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                04/30/2012                        10/31/2013
Comments          118% achieved. PMT review of funding for CDPs in beneficiary communities
(incl. %          shows that US$33 million was leveraged out of total CDP investment programs
achievement)      of US$140 million. Source: review by the PMT.
                  Percentage of projects with socially and/or economically marginalized groups as
Indicator 2 :
                  benefiting from investments.
Value
quantitative or   0%                        70%                N/A             90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                 04/30/2012                       10/31/2013
Comments          129% achieved. Source: screening of subproject proposals combined with in-
(incl. %          field verification by the OCs, corroborated by the PMT and confirmed through
achievement)      Bank field visits.
Indicator 3 :     Direct project beneficiaries (of which female).
Value
                  0                         257,000                            445,000
quantitative or                                                N/A
                  (0%)                      (50%)                              (58%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                04/30/2012                         10/31/2013
Comments
                  173% achieved for the total number of beneficiaries. Source: data collected by
(incl. %
                  the PMT from subproject proposal forms.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of target communities with CDPs prepared or updated.
Value
                0                           109                N/A             109
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
Comments
                100% achieved. 93 LGUs in West Bank and 16 neighborhoods in Gaza have
(incl. %
                updated CDPs as expected. Source: verification of CDPs by the PMT.
achievement)
                At least 40 percent of implemented CDD subprojects benefit 2 communities or
Indicator 2 :
                more.
Value
quantitative or 0%                          40%                N/A           39%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
Comments        97% achieved. 39% is the number of joint subprojects (84/216). In terms of
(incl. %        contract values, subprojects that benefit 2 communities or more are 91%. Source:
achievement) statistics developed by the PMT.
                Beneficiary contributions to the VNDP subprojects are never below 10% of the
Indicator 3 :
                grants throughout the life of the project.
Value
quantitative or 0%                          10%                N/A           20.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
                100% achieved. The correct target value should be 100% of subprojects have at
Comments
                least 10% community contribution. All subprojects achieved at least 10%
(incl. %
                community contribution and the target was achieved 100%. Source: PMT
achievement)
                accounting.
                Percentage of subprojects implemented with youth being among the main
Indicator 4 :
                beneficiaries.
Value
quantitative or 0                           30%                N/A           35%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
Comments        117% achieved. Source: screening of subproject proposals combined with in-
(incl. %        field verification by the OCs, corroborated by the PMT and confirmed through
achievement) Bank field visits.
Indicator 5 : Percentage of subprojects with women being the main beneficiaries.
Value
quantitative or 0                           20%                N/A           28%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
Comments        140% achieved. Source: screening of subproject proposals combined with in-
(incl. %        field verification by the OCs, corroborated by the PMT and confirmed through
achievement) Bank field visits.
                At least 80 percent of implemented CDD projects are rated as satisfactorily
Indicator 6 :
                complying with technical specifications, as assessed by annual technical audits.
Value
quantitative or 0                           80%                N/A           90%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                    04/30/2012                       08/31/2013
Comments        106% achievement. Source: technical audits of subprojects of cycle 1 and 2 for
(incl. %          the West Bank and Gaza respectively and discussions with auditors.
achievement)
                  PSGs are composed of at least 20 percent women and 30 percent youth
Indicator 7 :
                  throughout the CDD process.
Value
                                           Women: 20%                        Women: 27%
quantitative or   0                                           N/A
                                           Youth: 30%                        Youth: 43%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/24/2008                 04/30/2012                        08/31/2013
Comments          135 % achieved for women, 143% achieved for youth. In addition, out of the 109
(incl. %          PSGs, 3 PSGs were headed by women. Source: data collected and reported by
achievement)      the OCs, corroborated by the PMT and confirmed through Bank field visits.
                  Minimum 80% communities with functioning system of public disclosure of
Indicator 8 :
                  results (public Notice Board), such as Public Notice Boards.
Value
quantitative or 0                          80%                N/A             100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                   04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        125% achieved. Source: data collected and reported by the OCs.
achievement)
                By end of Project's second year (mid-term), at least 70% of the functions of the
Indicator 9 :
                PMT are assumed by existing public servants of the MOLG.
Value
quantitative or 30%                        80%                N/A             62%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/24/2008                   04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
Comments        78% achieved. At the end of the project there were 13 PMT members in West
(incl. %        Bank and Gaza out of which 8 are civil servants. Source: see Annex 2 for full
achievement) PMT composition.
Indicator 10 : Grievances registered related to delivery of project benefits addressed (%).
Value
quantitative or 0                          100%               N/A             100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2008                   04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
Comments
                100% achieved. Three community complaints related to voluntary land donation
(incl. %
                were addressed. Source: PMT grievance redress system.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Grievances related to delivery of project benefits that are addressed (number).
Value
quantitative or 0                          N/A                N/A             3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2008                   04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
Comments        There was no target for the expected number of grievances, but all were
(incl. %        addressed. Indicator 10 measures the percentage of grievances addressed while
achievement) indicator 11 measures the total number. Source: PMT grievance redress system.
Indicator 12 : Community contribution in the total project costs (percentage).
Value
                0                          10%                N/A             15.2%
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                  04/30/2012                       10/31/2013
Comments          152% achieved. Total community contributions (US$1.77 million) are 15.2% of
(incl. %          total project costs, and 20.4% of the cost of Component 1. Source: PMT
achievement)      accounting.
Indicator 13 :    Total community contribution (US$).
Value
quantitative or   0                         700,000            N/A            1,769,074
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
Comments
                  253% achieved. The indicator target (US$700,000) was set as 10 percent of
(incl. %
                  Component 1 (US$7 million). Source: PMT accounting.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    Number of JSCPDs with capacity profiles implemented.
Value
quantitative or   0                         9                  N/A             11
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/20/2008                04/30/2012                         08/31/2013
                  100% achieved. There were 11 JSCPDs in 9 districts; target should have been 11.
Comments
                  Capacity profiles presented existing development plans, services delivered to the
(incl. %
                  population, JSCPD facilities, income and budget, human resources, and systems.
achievement)
                  Source: PMT.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/10/2008       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 0.18
  2     06/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 0.82
  3     12/21/2009       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 1.31
  4     06/28/2010       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 1.73
                                                        Moderately
  5     02/03/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                            2.58
                                                      Unsatisfactory
                                                        Moderately
  6     09/08/2011       Moderately Satisfactory                                            3.59
                                                      Unsatisfactory
                                                        Moderately
  7     05/13/2012       Moderately Satisfactory                                            5.37
                                                      Unsatisfactory
  8     09/04/2012       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                  6.39
  9     06/07/2013           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                  8.48
 10     09/18/2013           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                         9.63
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To refine selected indicators,
                                                     extend the closing date from
 03/20/2012       N       MS    MU            4.96   April 30, 2012 to October 31,
                                                     2013, and reallocate the Grant
                                                     proceeds.

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      The fragile political and security context in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG), with
a notable downturn from the beginning of 2006, affected socio-economic conditions, and
weakened institutional resilience at both the central and local levels. This was
exacerbated by a crippling fiscal crisis caused by a sharp reduction in financial resources,
intensified restrictions on the movement of people and goods, the fragmentation of the
Palestinian territorial landscape (particularly by the continuing construction of the
separation barrier and expansion of settlement activity within the West Bank), the
isolation of Gaza, bitter political divisions and infighting.

2.      Poverty had increased dramatically: 44 percent of Palestinians lived below the
poverty line and the unemployment rate stood at 27 percent, more than twice the pre-
intifada levels. Gaza was particularly affected with 80 percent of the population being
poor. Statistics on access to basic services are incomplete, but exemplified by, for
example, rates for access to water, which was around 50-60 percent in Gaza. There was
increasing pressure on service delivery at the local levels, including on Village Councils
(VCs), who had little financial or human resources, but were required by the 1997 Local
Government Unit (LGU) law to provide largely the same set of services as municipalities.
The majority of VCs (those with a population below 1,000) had not been elected at
appraisal and the Palestinian Authority (PA)’s policy was to seek to amalgamate VCs
into larger, more economically viable LGUs.

3.       The latter months of 2007 and early 2008 had seen some positive developments
on both the political and development fronts. The international community took a series
of initiatives designed to create political momentum towards a peaceful resolution of the
Palestinian-Israeli conflict. In parallel, the PA had completed a Palestinian Reform and
Development Plan (PRDP) that was in effect a medium-term economic framework for
2008 to 2010. The PA issued the PRDP and at a pledging conference in Paris on
December 17, 2007 delegations from 87 countries and international organizations
pledged a total of US$7.4 billion to support Palestinian institution building and economic
recovery over the coming three years.

Social development issues
4.     The social development costs of the prevailing conditions were multiple.
Continuing conflict was perpetuating an internal cycle of violence, weakening the social
fabric and affecting individual well-being. The weakening of the PA, together with
increased restriction of movement and intensifying political polarization, had heightened
tensions along clan, family, and political lines, leading to uneven mediation of access to
information and resources. As a result, weaker social groups were often excluded.
Moreover, family/clan networks were inherently patriarchal, furthering the exclusion of
youth and women from the decision-making process as well as the economy.




                                             1
5.       Despite these negative indications, the social capital of the WBG showed
continuing promise for development investment. In the face of all these obstacles, people
continued to strive to attend school, go to work and maintain social and religious
institutions. PRDP highlighted the importance of building social capital and promoting
solidarity through local governments that are responsive to citizens. Given the impact of
the preceding crisis on the social fabric, and to reach PRDP’s vision of the future, there
was a need for a project that could promote social solidarity and empower communities
to manage their own development process. The Village and Neighborhood Development
Project (VNDP) was designed to build on that capital before it was diminished further.

Local government issues
6.     The West Bank had a significant rural population (47 percent) and corresponding
number of LGUs (VCs and project committees1). The proliferation of LGUs had led to
competition among LGUs and thus scattering of development efforts. It was, therefore,
the Ministry of Local Government’s (MOLG) strategy to consolidate LGUs in order to
provide better services for citizens through greater economies of scale and cooperation.
Gaza, on the other hand, was primarily urban, with long established municipalities
managing local affairs, although there were neighborhoods that had been marginalized
from access to services.

7.     The institutional framework and governance structure for local governments were
weak, with blurred roles and responsibilities of LGUs, Joint Service Councils (JSCs2),
and public utilities, and weak lines of accountability, both vertically (between levels of
government) and horizontally (between citizens, local authorities, NGOs/Community-
Based Organizations (CBOs), and service providers). Complementary assistance would
be required to address those issues and systematically guide sector interventions. Many
VCs were too small to be financially viable and provide services to their inhabitants.

Rationale for Bank involvement
8.      The Bank had previously delivered a strong program of advisory activities and
projects, including a succession of three community development projects. The Integrated
Community Development Project (US$20 million; approved in 2002 and closed in 2008)
had focused on community priorities in subproject implementation, and, although not a
true Community-Driven Development (CDD) project, its prioritization in interventions
was conditioned to provision of evidence of community participation and consultations.


1
  Project Committees are officially recognized forms of local government in rural communities which are
not part of a VC or municipality. They are generally established for a specific project, such as a health
center or school. The population represented by a Project Committee may range between 100 to 5,000
people.
2
  A grouping of small LGUs for service provision. The concept of JSCs was introduced in late 1990s
resulting in groups of LGUs setting up joint administrative arrangements so as to increase effectiveness and
efficiency in public service delivery. JSCs are generally classified as multi-service establishments (referred
to as Joint Services Councils for Planning and Development), and one-service establishments, such as those
established for solid waste management.



                                                      2
The Bank was therefore in a unique position to support the government in developing a
more comprehensive approach for improved local service delivery. The VNDP supported
the Bank’s strategy of building Palestinian institutions at the local and national levels in
preparation for future statehood.

9.     The Bank had also long been involved in the municipal sector and had been a
convening force in the establishment of the Municipal Development and Lending Fund
(MDLF) through the Second Emergency Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
(EMSRP-II). The VNDP would constitute a progression on the ICDP and complement
the EMSRP-II by establishing a model for community development in villages,
marginalized urban neighborhoods, and refugee camps (all areas ineligible for EMSRP-II
support). The Bank had a long history in the WBG and credibility with many donors to
lead the process of community development which should also allow it to leverage
additional donor funding.

10.     PRDP also highlighted the importance of youth empowerment which the VNDP
also aimed to address. Community-based projects have the potential and flexibility to
involve youth in local decision making and to enhance the participation and
empowerment of young people. As shown in the Bank’s 2007 Middle East and North
Africa Region (MNA) Youth Policy Note, by virtue of its multi-sectoral perspective and
integrative capacity, the Bank had considerable comparative advantage in advancing
knowledge on youth inclusion/exclusion issues in MNA.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)
11.    The Project Development Objective was: within a fragile context, to promote a
coordinated development approach which builds the capacity of communities to plan for
and manage development resources. The key indicators for project success were:

   a)      Percentage of activities identified through the Area Development Plans that
           receive funding from other sources.
   b)      Percentage of projects with economically and/or socially marginalized groups
           as main beneficiaries.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and reasons/justification
12.     The PDO was not revised. The Key Indicators were revised during a level 2
restructuring on March 20, 2012 to: (a) capture a change in planning scope, (b) refine
wording for improved measurement of the key performance and outcome indicators, and
(c) drop one intermediate outcome indicator already listed as a PDO outcome indicator.
The new wording of the PDO indicators was:

   a)      Percentage of financing of block grants leveraged from other sources for
           priorities identified through Community Development Plans (CDPs).
   b)      Percentage of projects with socially and/or economically marginalized groups
           as benefiting from investments.

                                             3
13.     Area Development Plans were changed to Community Development Plans during
implementation to simplify the process while keeping focus on joint planning by
communities in both cases. After the first experience it was found to be too cumbersome
to develop ADPs covering the entire geographic area of participating Joint Services
Councils for Planning and Development (JSCPDs)3, including municipalities. This was
essentially because the amounts for the community subprojects were rather limited
compared to municipal investment needs, but also to some extent because the inclusion of
municipalities in the VNDP risked overlapping with and distorting a performance-based
mechanism implemented under the parallel Municipal Development Program (MDP;
successor project to the EMSRP-II with focus on performance-based grants to
municipalities). Whereas ADPs focused on geographic planning for the entire JSCPD
area, CDPs were designed to focus on the localized village level while keeping a strong
focus on joint planning and consensus on local development objectives, resource
identification, planned project implementation, and land use.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
14.     The estimated 257,077 main beneficiaries were the populations of 93 villages in
11 JSCPDs in the West Bank and 13 neighborhoods and three refugee blocks of the Gaza
Strip. They would benefit from improved involvement in local planning processes for
subproject selection and implementation. Selection of target JSCPDs and LGUs in the
West Bank and neighborhoods in Gaza was based on the criteria presented in the PAD,
such as representation of all districts in the West Bank and presence of other planned or
on-going similar CDD operations, marginalization,4 and vulnerability, and low levels of
service as well as lack of investments from other donors. The VCs and neighborhoods
would benefit from support to planning and the JSCPDs would benefit from training,
technical assistance, and small equipment. The MOLG would benefit from capacity
building to improve sector coordination.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Implementation of Subprojects Using a CDD Approach (US$7.0 million)
15.     The component provided grants to marginalized communities in the WBG to
finance projects identified through a participatory local planning process. The targeted
populations were those that had been marginalized due to restrictions on mobility (the
separation barrier, check points etc.), and poor, remote areas and refugee camps in Gaza,



3
  There are two types of JSCs – those providing a single service, such as solid waste management (called
JSCs) and those providing the whole range of services under the mandate of VCs. The latter multi-service
JSCs are known as Joint Service Councils for Planning and Development (JSCPDs). VNDP only worked
with the multi-service JSCPDs in the interest of continuity and to assure fit between the types of
community subprojects implemented and the activities of the JSCPD.
4
  Marginalized groups were defined as women, youth, disabled, and economically marginalized groups
(unemployed persons and communities that were separated from their main livelihoods; either by road
blocks, or the Separation Barrier, etc.).



                                                   4
which had received little donor assistance. Particular attention would be paid to inclusion
of groups that were generally marginalized (such as youth and women) from decision
making processes at the local level.

16.     Grants were not expected to meet all communities’ needs but rather to provide an
incentive for community planning and collaborative implementation of activities at the
local level through “learning by doing”. The activities would vary according to
community needs but would be for public benefit. The project would adopt an open-menu
approach but would establish criteria for selection based on a negative list such as
political or religious activities, investments detrimental to the environment, rehabilitation
of structures of archeological or cultural value.

Component 2: Capacity Building for Communities and LGUs (US$2.0 million)
17.      This component would provide resources necessary support to communities
throughout the life of the project in implementing Component 1. This would include
facilitation and community mobilization, preparation of Area Development Plans (ADPs),
project proposals and implementation guidance on technical and fiduciary aspects.
Capacity building would also enable communities to leverage funds from other sources
(including their own resources) and to improve coordination with line ministries and
other actors within the area to implement ADPs.

18.    In addition, this component would support capacity building for the eleven
JSCPDs responsible for coordinating project implementation in the West Bank (in
cooperation with the VCs) at the local level. Support would be based on a capacity profile
of each JSCPD.

Component 3: Institutional Support for the Counterpart Institution (US$1.0 million)5
19.     This component would support the MOLG to supervise implementation of the
project, including maintenance of a knowledge base for local development. It would
support the MOLG in taking the lead on setting standards and policy directions for CDD
to harmonize multiple approaches supported by donors in the WBG. A results-based
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system would be established to track implementation
progress.

1.6 Revised Components
20.     The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
21.     A level 2 project restructuring was approved on March 20, 2012 to: (a) refine
selected project indicators to enable better measurement of the achievement of the PDO;


5
 The PAD main text presents the Component 3 cost as US$1.0 million although this comprises US$0.1
million in unallocated funds. See Annex 1 for full cost breakdown.



                                                 5
(b) extend the closing date from April 30, 2012 to October 31, 2013, to allow for
completion of all project activities, following delays in project start-up and initial
implementation; and (c) reallocate the Trust Fund Grant Agreement proceeds to ensure
adequate financing for project implementation and oversight activities following the
project’s extension (US$100,000 unallocated funds and US$146,000 for the Project
Management Team’s (PMT) incremental operating cost reallocated to consultant’s
services for Oversight Consultants (OCs), see financing details in Annex 1).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Preparation
22.     Preparation of the VNDP took place during a time of internal political tensions in
the PA. Project preparation was led by the MOLG, which had limited experience in
designing and implementing projects and with strong input from a Bank team with a Task
Team Leader (TTL) based in the field. The Bank’s involvement was fully justified by the
knowledge of the sector and history of engagement. During preparation, the MOLG
established a PMT, which would assume implementation responsibility with support of
external consultants. The Bank team helped the client mobilize a grant of US$250,000
from the Post-Conflict Fund (PCF) 6 to finance consultants to assist the MOLG in
designing the CDD approach and M&E methodology, put in place FM systems, provide
initial capacity building to the PMT, and carry out community consultations and
promoting consensus building. Coordination to harmonize CDD approaches took place
with other donors active in the sector, especially regarding support to the Department of
JSCs and directly to JSCPDs (supported by Denmark), as well as for an M&E system in
the MOLG (supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)).

Design
23.     The VNDP was designed to promote local ownership of the development process
and induce the systemic changes needed to achieve social development gains through
participatory processes and demonstrate an effective model of CDD which could be
replicated by the PA and donors across the WBG. The project would contribute to
PRDP’s goal of bringing government closer to the people by empowering local
communities to articulate and prioritize their public service needs, and hence ensuring
that local government is both empowered and accountable, creating the demand for the
consolidation of LGUs for better economies of scale in service delivery and building
social capital. The project was designed to provide support to PSGs in eleven JSCPDs in
the West Bank, since it was expected that VCs would become obsolete according to the
PA’s amalgamation policy. This policy would be supported by providing an incentive for
VCs to work together on joint planning and project implementation.



6
 Since the PA had already received several Project Preparation Facilities which did not result in projects
and had to be reimbursed, this was not an option.



                                                     6
24.     Component 1 was designed with two slightly different implementation
arrangements for the West Bank and for the Gaza Strip. Due to the differences in
geography and administrative setup, targeted communities in the West Bank were rural
areas (VCs/Project Committees) while the project would target marginalized and refugee
camp neighborhoods within Gaza municipalities. The targeting criteria were discussed
and agreed at project preparatory stakeholder workshops held in North, Middle and
Southern West Bank and in Gaza. In the West Bank, the grant (US$4.2 million) was
intended to create the incentive for joint planning and implementation of activities across
VCs while keeping in mind the longer term MOLG goal of consolidating the large
number of small LGUs. In addition, it would bring VCs into closer working relationships
with their JSCPDs which would play a coordinating and implementing role at the local
level. In Gaza, the grant (US$2.8 million) would create a mechanism by which
collaborative partnerships within and across neighborhoods could be developed in a
context of heightened social tensions.

25.     The project design incorporated relevant lessons learned from the substantial
global body of experience from Bank-financed CDD projects and from the three previous
community development projects in the WBG. The Integrated Community Development
Project had especially shown that capacity building and training initiatives for
communities tend to be sidelined if they are not built into the project works execution and
therefore require special attention in design, finance, and implementation. For this reason
the role of the OCs was reinforced, with buy-in from all stakeholders, and they were
positioned up-front throughout the project.

26.     Experience elsewhere fed into the design of the two 24-month implementation
cycles. This was intended to allow sufficient time to build social cohesion and allow the
project to bring together different groups to address common goals. However, in reality
the two years anticipated for the first cycle was too short. Other similar projects financed
by the Bank globally spent 18 months on the initial mobilization and subproject
preparation process, before starting subproject construction. This underestimation was the
major factor later leading to extending the project by 18 months. It was expected that by
repeating the subproject identification and implementation, communities would
strengthen their capacities for planning and working jointly as well as coordinating with
other relevant actors. Having a strong interface between communities and local
governments was another lesson incorporated into the project through capacity building
to communities and support to outreach of JSCPDs.

27.     Some of the CDD projects financed by the Bank in the past had shown the risk of
elite capture unless effective mechanisms for the inclusion of marginalized groups are
built into project design. This risk was mitigated by ensuring that all segments of the
community are aware of the project and understand their role in it through effective
communication plans and outreach activities. Specific measures for the inclusion of youth
and women were outlined in the operations manual (OM) and M&E framework, based on
consultations with stakeholders during preparation.




                                             7
28.     The specific experience in the WBG showed that community development
projects previously had an excessive infrastructure focus, limited community
participation in the implementation of investments,, and paid little attention to “soft
activities” which have the potential to ensure quality service delivery and sustainability.
To correct these shortcomings,, the VNDP placed focus on the communities’ role in the
development process through a much more bottom-up approach, driven by the
beneficiary communities. Use of an open-menu approach ensured that communities
would be responsible for local-level planning, implementation and monitoring throughout
the subproject cycle.

29.     The shift in development approach was complemented by a parallel shift in
implementation structures. Previous community development projects had been
implemented by the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction,
a transitional structure set in place following the Oslo accords in 1994, with focus on
channeling donor funds for emergency reconstruction needs while the PA institutions
were still in their infancy. The MOLG had only participated in screening projects, but had
not had any implementation responsibility under previous community development
projects. At appraisal of VNDP however, MOLG had been fully established, with a
functioning Projects Department, and the evaluation was that the VNDP should serve to
strengthen the permanent PA institutions by making the MOLG responsible for project
implementation. An MOLG staff having been involved in the screening process under
previous operations was nominated as Project Coordinator and participated to VNDP
preparation.

30.     The implementation arrangements (visualized in Additional Annex 10) were
developed to assure adequate oversight at each level of project implementation, with
some differences between the West Bank and Gaza due to the different organization of
beneficiaries. The MOLG has a legal mandate to oversee LGUs and would be responsible
for supervising the overall project, with the support of its district offices. The
identification, design, and supervision of subprojects would be by VCs (for West Bank),
and urban neighborhoods and ‘blocs’ in refugee camps (for Gaza). JSCPDs, part of the
Palestinian local government structure, comprising VCs and municipalities, would
coordinate subprojects at the local level in the West Bank and assure implementation. All
VCs within the jurisdiction of the eleven targeted JSCPDs were eligible for VNDP
support except municipalities, since they were already benefiting from EMSRP-II.
JSCPDs would be responsible for approving proposals submitted by VCs based on
agreed-upon criteria; providing technical assistance to VCs in the implementation of their
subproject; and contracting and paying contractors on behalf of VCs. JSCPD handled all
contractual issues and supervised implementation through JSCPD engineers. In Gaza, the
MOLG would pay the contractors directly.

31.     Program Support Groups (PSGs) in the West Bank and Gaza would be formed
through community level consultations constituted of representatives of key local
stakeholders and VC members. They were made responsible for identifying project
priorities, and defining the implementation arrangements, including the designation of an
entity (e.g., CBO) which would sign the grant implementation agreement with the MOLG.


                                            8
PSG were to be composed of local community representatives, including youth and
women’s representatives and CBO representatives. In the West Bank, it was required that
80 percent of VC allocations for subprojects be used for joint subprojects with at least
one other VC. This was meant to encourage collaboration across VCs and develop a basis
for later formal amalgamation of VCs. For joint projects, Joint PSGs (JPSGs) were
formed. In the Gaza refugee camps, the popular camp committees would be represented
in the PSGs and activities in camps were to be coordinated with the Department of
Refugee Affairs as well as with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency. The OCs
were a cornerstone of the implementation arrangements, hired to accompany the
communities throughout all CDD aspects of the project and develop the capacity of the
MOLG to manage CDD programs.

Quality at entry
32.    The quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The project was prepared with a
sound overall concept and design, based on good background analysis of the complex
socio-economic geography of the WBG. The PMT was established in the MOLG, with
preliminary training carried out, Project Implementation Manuals (including M&E,
procurement, youth inclusion, and financial management manuals 7 ) and key external
consultants already on board during project preparation. The PDO and M&E framework
were generally adequate with a sound results chain, although an indicator could have
been included to specifically measure the ability of communities to manage development
resources.

33.     Lessons learned elsewhere as well as mitigation measures for the main risks were
generally well included in project design. However, based on lessons learned from the
implementation of CDD-type activities globally, more time should have been included
for communities to participate in selection and preparation of investments, especially in
cycle 1. This shortcoming led to putting undue pressure on the PMT (which did not have
enough experience in project implementation) and other stakeholders to rush the CDD
process during implementation. Consultations had been carried out with all stakeholders
in the West Bank and in Gaza on the project concept and results were reflected in the
design and in the draft OM. An Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) had been prepared and published. The number and type of project participating
actors was suitable to assure implementation, given their function and contributions.
There were minor shortcomings regarding the definition of individual responsibilities and
interaction between actors, especially the OCs and PMT, and allowing too short time for
preparing subprojects in cycle 1, especially since VCs would have to agree between them
on joint subprojects for the first time, in a Palestinian context.

2.2 Implementation
34.   The project was approved by the Board on April 22, 2008; the Trust Fund Grant
Agreement was signed on July 29, 2008 and the project was declared effective on


7
    These manuals were consolidated into the OM.



                                                   9
October 24, 2008. While waiting for the project to become effective, a joint PMT-Bank
study tour was undertaken to one of the World Bank’s flagship CDD Projects,
implemented in Indonesia, (the Kecamatan Development Program), to strengthen the
capacity of the PMT.

Cycle 1
35.      The CDD process was new to the beneficiary communities and as expected took
some time to be fully understood, with many community-level meetings held to explain
the concept and the process. The first part of the project was marked by a steep learning
curve for all involved stakeholders. The establishment of PSGs was not easy in
communities with no tradition for participation of women and youth in decision-making.
VCs with the support of the OCs utilized public meetings and stakeholder consultation to
select up to nine members of the PSG to represent the locality at the level of the JSCPD.
The PSG should include women, youth and CBOs as well as representatives of VCs and
Neighborhood Committees. The process in fact started from scratch, and the MOLG
(through the PMT) and OCs made an additional effort to mobilize the communities
through women and youth clubs, making use of the OCs combined 34 community
mobilizers to support the process. Cycle 1 was therefore, as expected, a learning process
for all involved parties, but took longer than the 24 months projected in the PAD.

36.     The learning process for the PMT and OCs was replicated at the local level,
where community members, by virtue of the VNDP, had to learn new ways of
collaboration. PSGs were established in each village and neighborhood, and ADPs were
elaborated by each VC through a participatory rapid planning process. The PSGs had
members from the VCs, which initially caused some opposition among the other PSG
members, since VCs were not elected in the outset and they were not seen as representing
the communities. Later on communities generally recognized that having VCs in PSGs
gave the ADPs (later CDPs) more weight and helped in cases where use of public land
for subprojects had to be formalized, especially use of one VCs lands for joint
subprojects. Then a process of negotiation ensued between PSGs for joint projects, for
which conformity had to be verified with JSCPD development plans. JPSGs were formed
in order to facilitate the inter-community joint planning, but sometimes with difficulties
to reach consensus around joint projects due to geographical isolation or pre-existing
conflicts. The planning phase included a resource mapping exercise and the subproject
application had to highlight the resources (in kind or in cash) necessary to implement and
operate the subproject. The subproject proposal had to specify which resources the
community has at its disposal to manage output (e.g. teachers, doctors, financial
resources).

37.     The OCs found themselves in a difficult position, having to facilitate a balance
between the CDD approach, through, for instance, securing quotas for individual projects,
and the underlying higher-level MOLG amalgamation objective which the project sought
to advance by enforcing mandatory joint projects. They were also faced with a significant
coordination task, working with LGUs, JSCPDs, the MOLG (including the PMT), and
PSGs at every step of the project cycle. Communication channels had not been
sufficiently clarified and at times the OCs coordinated with the MOLG district offices


                                           10
without informing the PMT at the central level, complicating the coordination task for the
PMT. Once the communications channels were clarified as a corrective measure, putting
the PMT squarely at the center, these issues substantially abated.

38.     Mobilization took a lot of work and it involved, understandably, considerable
effort to change attitudes and habits at all levels of implementation. Opportunities to be
heard were an incentive and communities felt they were actively involved, but in an
inherently patriarchal society it took time to get acceptance for women and youth
participation. The reporting on participation to PSG meetings meant that OCs and PMT
could react in the instances when women and youth were not invited to participate and
remind local leaders that their project proposals would not be approved without
participation of marginalized groups. Also, in some highly conservative locations
women-only focus groups and household visits were done by the OCs to invoke female
participation. One such example is a village (Arab Al-Ramadin) in the Southern West
Bank, where there were no women participating to the first meeting, but after follow-up
from the OCs they would participate, but seated in a separate room, and after a second
round of follow-up they would finally participate fully to meetings.

39.      The OC in the West Bank were initially quite rigid in their interpretation of the
prioritizing process to select investments, requiring VCs to select their No 1 priority for
investment. This led to many subproject proposals (over 50 percent) being rejected by the
PMT from lack of funds and the selection process had to be reinitiated in the PSG.
Moreover, JSCPD staff was overloaded from the additional work associated with VNDP
and the PMT had to review all procurement, which added extra time to the subproject
cycle.

40.     The double review process (by the MOLG district offices and the PMT) added
time to the subproject process, as did the preparation of one consolidated procurement
plan of all community subprojects by the PMT before launching any subproject
procurement. The latter was clarified by the Bank as unnecessary, but had added further
additional time to the process. Due to the time taken for community-level consultations
(time which had been underestimated at appraisal), rejection of initial proposals, review
process, and need for rectification of procurement requirements, the majority of
subprojects (around 70 percent) only started 18 months after effectiveness during which
disbursements became very slow for lack of contract progress. Since projects in the WBG
already have country environment and record flags, the third flag from the disbursement
lag put the project in potential problem status and when Implementation Progress was
downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory, the Project was then rated as a problem
project.

Mid-term Review (MTR)
41.    The MTR was held in April 2011, when cycle 1 was well under way (it was
substantially completed by December 2011) and with a one year delay from the originally
planned date due to the startup delays. As Implementation Progress was rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory it was agreed to make concerted efforts to speed up implementation. Full
use was made of the results coming out of cycle 1, especially as documented in the


                                            11
Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA, see Annex 5 of the Implementation Completion
and Results Report (ICR)) and an institutional audit, which were used to take corrective
measures and make adjustments to the implementation arrangements. The MTR also
served to clarify the role of the OCs, which had a dual and somewhat conflicting role of
supporters and supervisors of the beneficiaries.

42.     To simplify the subproject process and speed up implementation, the subproject
approval process and template were simplified and the requirements clarified, especially
regarding indicators and operation and maintenance (O&M) requirements. A subproject
screening checklist was developed to help the PMT detect potential issues, particularly
related to voluntary land donations, construction permits, and subproject environmental
category, which had caused the most problems during cycle 1. The MOLG district
officers were seconded to the review process by the PMT rather than having a two-tier
approval process (first at the district level then by the PMT). It was also agreed that the
Bank should do an upstream screening by reviewing a list of preliminary subprojects
ideas to enable early detection of any potential problems as early as subproject proposal
development. It had been expected that the OC in the West Bank would not participate to
cycle 2, but the need for continued mobilization on the ground (which the MOLG did not
have the capacity to do) and problems experienced led to an agreement that both OCs
would be retained for most of cycle 2. In the West Bank the scope of their work was
reduced to focus on community mobilization and M&E while in Gaza the OCs would
continue to play the same role as in cycle 1 but with fewer consultant staff.

43.     Management of the counterpart contribution and contractor payment process was
also adjusted for cycle 2. It had initially been agreed that counterpart funds should be
transferred to JSCPD accounts as a condition for signing works contracts. This was not
followed stringently under cycle 1 which contributed to slowing down contractor
payments and hence disbursements. To assure the availability of counterpart funds, it was
agreed that the PMT should only transfer 90 percent of funds to JSCPDs, forcing JSCPDs
to pay contractors.

44.     Other important changes agreed at the MTR (and implemented during cycle 2)
included beefing up the capacity of the PMT by the addition of a junior CDD specialist, a
consultant engineer and two civil servants as procurement officers. The engineer would
particularly review O&M plans for the proposed subprojects. Procedures were set in
place for more systematic review of the OCs progress reports and implementation of
recommendations. For example, MoLG District Office staff were seconded to the PMT
during the initial proposal screening and also proposal review and approval process, to
save time by avoiding two levels of screening, one at the district level and one at the
PMT level. OC support to JSCPDs would also be differentiated better based on the
capacity of the JSCPD. Because of the problems in cycle 1, the PSGs and VCs
recognized the need to have JSC engineers present at all meetings.

Cycle 2
45.    The adjustments agreed during the MTR and implemented for cycle 2, combined
with the learning and capacity built during cycle 1 led to major improvements, more


                                            12
efficiency, and better acceptance by the communities in cycle 2. Following the MTR, the
PMT and Bank held monthly meetings to monitor implementation of actions agreed at
the MTR. The Bank’s Financial Management Specialist paid regular visits to the PMT to
provide training on filing withdrawal applications and the Bank social safeguards
specialist carried out three rounds of training on voluntary land donation to clarify the
procedures for use of public lands for subprojects. The Bank Task Team also carried out
regular visits to subprojects in-between missions. Following the MTR and
implementation of the corrective measures agreed (although some of these, such as
seconding district officers and adding procurement and technical engineering capacity to
the PMT, took longer than agreed), implementation performance continually improved
over the remainder of the project, as described below. By September 2012, project
progress had substantially improved and the Implementation Progress was upgraded to
Moderately Satisfactory in ISRs. Progress towards PDO also improved and was upgraded.

46.     There was generally a good continuity between cycle 1 and 2 priorities as
identified in the CDPs for cycle 2, although in Gaza some communities changed priorities
between cycles. The realism also increased between cycles, with cycle 2 presenting a
more realistic program, with focus only on the primary needs of the community while not
including a much longer list of subprojects unlikely to get funding. The quality of O&M
arrangements in subproject proposals was in general better, which reduced the time to
discuss O&M with sector ministries. Capacity-building activities under cycle 1 had
focused on fiduciary issues for JSCs while PSGs were supported more on community
mobilization aspects, which also helped improve implementation of cycle 2. In cycle 2,
PSGs were much more familiar with this aspect and support to them focused more on
fiduciary aspects. More than 70% of PSGs from cycle 1 were also retained for cycle 2,
which meant overall they were already familiar with all requirements and processes. JCSs
also demonstrated better fiduciary and technical capacity for implementation and
oversight under cycle 2, as a result of accumulation of capacity from cycle 1.

47.     With the changes introduced for cycle 2, combined with increased capacity and
better flow of information between all stakeholders, the average subproject approval
process was brought down from 12 to 4 months. This provided a better time balance
between mobilization and subproject implementation for more immediate visible results.
The least performing JSCPDs from cycle 1 also improved performance under cycle 2 due
to the experiences acquired and the more targeted support from the OCs. The knowledge
gained at all levels of the CDD process meant that the number of community mobilizers
activated by the OCs could be brought down from one per five locations to one per ten
locations. It was however not realistic for the MOLG to take over all community
mobilization, as initially foreseen, since the MOLG district offices are generally staffed
with engineers who do not have the necessary training and whose working hours do not
correspond to timing of PSG meetings.

48.    Disbursements picked up over the last year due to training on submitting
withdrawal applications, efforts on procurement and after transferring 90 percent of funds
to JSCPDs, which helped improve contracts payments and hence disbursements. All
project activities were completed, community contributions had been collected, and


                                           13
works and serviced had been received before the closing date of October 31, 2013, which
is reflected in the Satisfactory ratings in the last ISR. This improvement reflects that the
knowledge accumulated throughout the project was used to make necessary adjustments,
addressing the initial design and implementation shortcomings and, in particular, assuring
that time for the joint planning by communities was adequate in the second cycle. The
technical audits have confirmed that the vast majority of investments are operational
(about 90 percent), and that works are of acceptable quality. By project closing on
October 31, 2013, all project ratings were Satisfactory.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design
49.     The M&E framework was designed to monitor progress towards PDO through
two simple yet effective indicators – on the funding that communities were able to raise
based on the processes implemented by the VNDP and the ability of these processes to
deliver services to the most marginalized part of the population in the already very poor
areas targeted by the project. The results chain was sound overall, with intermediate
indicators developed to track inputs, outputs, and processes leading to the achievement of
the main parts of the PDO, but a PDO indicator should have been included to measure
more directly the part of the PDO related to the management of resources by
communities.

50.     The VNDP approach relied on subprojects as a means to achieve the PDO and the
number of beneficiaries of subprojects was tracked. The VNDP was not designed as a
service delivery project and although expected services to be delivered were part of the
subproject approval process, actual outcomes of subprojects were not aggregated by
subproject type. This would have provided useful additional information, but only the
total number of beneficiaries was tracked along with subproject outputs. Finally, the
indicator targets should not have been part of the indicators themselves, but this did not
impact the effectiveness of the M&E design.

51.    The collection methods were well described in the PAD, with the PMT
responsible for aggregating and synthesizing M&E data and preparing progress reports.
Information on indicators was to be tracked using simple forms such as the CDD
subproject proposal forms and final evaluations of implemented CDD subprojects
submitted by the PSGs. Participatory M&E tools (such as community scorecards, citizen
evaluations) were included in the project and to complement the regular reporting on
progress and results, the project would make use of BIAs at the MTR and completion.

Implementation
52.     The OCs were the cornerstone of the monitoring process since they interacted
directly with the communities, JSCPDs and PSGs on a daily basis. The data was fed to
the PMT, which also carried out regular field visits to monitor implementation. The close
connection with communities meant that updated data was readily available, although the
involvement of JSCPDs and VCs in M&E could have been better. The project
restructuring in 2012 was used to make minor adjustments to the indicators, especially to


                                            14
reword the PDO indicators (see section 1.3). The World Bank carried out regular
supervision missions, which included visits to subproject sites.

Utilization
53.     Implementation of M&E generated useful data for project management purposes.
In the project startup phase, the inclusion of marginalized groups in the planning process
was not always as expected, and the OCs were able to react based on the data collected.
Systematic review of the M&E system throughout the VNDP’s life enhanced
organizational effectiveness for the MOLG, its departments, and District Offices. The
implementation of the BIAs, economic evaluation for the ICR and technical audits all
provide very valuable information to policy-makers. Based on the documentation of the
good results and the lessons learned, the PA continues to provide own-financing for a
direct continuation of the project through a third cycle. The available documentation is
also used to reflect on a follow-up operation supported by the Bank. Going forward, more
emphasis should be placed on monitoring the changes to socio-economic indicators and
access to services resulting from subprojects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Environmental safeguards compliance
54.     The VNDP was classified as category "B" project and triggered Operational
Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. An Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) was disclosed before project appraisal. Since the
subprojects financed under the project were not fully determined when the ESMF was
prepared, the MOLG technical and safeguards team, with the help of the OC consultants,
conducted screening of the financed subprojects during appraisal of PSG proposals to
ensure compliance with the ESMF provisions. In cycle 1, some subprojects were under-
classified as "C" and the Bank team recommended to the PMT to adjust the classification
to "B" (despite the environmental impacts being minimal), which caused some delays.
Therefore, in cycle 2, it was agreed that the Bank would screen jointly with the PMT the
environmental categories it had assigned to Cycle 2 subprojects to avoid delays. For the
subprojects which were granted approval in each cycle, project-specific Environmental
Management Plans were prepared and included as part of the bidding documents. During
implementation of subprojects, the MOLG team and the JSCPD staff closely monitored
the contractors' implementation of the environmental and safety provisions of the
Environmental Management Plans. Overall, environmental safeguards compliance during
project implementation is rated "satisfactory" and Bank safeguards were complied with.

Social safeguards compliance
55.    The Bank’s Policy on Involuntary Land Acquisition and Resettlement (OP 4.12)
did not apply to the VNDP since all subproject level works were carried out on state
lands, therefore not affecting private lands nor livelihoods (either permanently or
temporarily). The project included a clear negative list as part of the OM, containing the
mechanism for ensuring that all subprojects would be carried out on state lands. During
cycle 1, the Bank Task Team identified weaknesses in the client understanding of social
safeguards and in identifying and managing social risk and therefore gave a safeguards


                                           15
rating of Moderately Satisfactory. In fact, during cycle 1, three complaints had been
directed to the Bank that reflected a gap in the PMT’s understanding of social safeguards
including aspects related to voluntary land donations and project complaints handling
mechanisms intended to assist with resolving issues at the project level. In addition, the
Bank noted that the Environment and Social Management Framework and the OM did
not detail procedures and necessary training in these areas. Following the training by the
World Bank in these areas and implementation of complaints handling system and other
corrective measures, the ICR mission confirmed adequate improvements had been made
for cycle 2 implementation. It was also noted that no complaints were received for cycle
2. As result of these improvements, the social safeguards rating was raised to Satisfactory.

Procurement compliance
56.    The PMT was responsible for all procurement under the project – initially with
the support of a procurement specialist, before the MOLG staff took over from the MTR
onward. Due to slow procurement processing in Cycle 1, the procurement rating was
periodically downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory, but the PMT improved
performance during the last 18 months of project life and the rating was eventually
upgraded to Satisfactory. During the project, procurement was regularly monitored with
periodic post-reviews as part of supervision mission activities. The Bank carried out 4 ex-
post procurement reviews during the project lifetime; no major noncompliance was noted.
Bank procurement procedures were complied with.

Financial compliance and disbursement
57.     Financial management arrangements and implementation were compliant with
Bank guidelines. The PMT and JSCPDs were responsible for all financial management
under the project, support by a consultant specialist situated at the PMT. The project
performance in financial management was at times rated moderately unsatisfactory
during the first two years of implementation due to the unfamiliarity of the PMT and
JSCPDs with financial management systems of the project and underperformance of the
OC financial management specialists to develop the capacity of the PMT and JSCPDs.
Therefore, the planned knowledge transfer to the PMT was dropped in favor of assuring
adequate FM of the project. At project closing FM performance is assessed as
Satisfactory and the grant funds were 99 percent disbursed. All required community
contributions were collected. During implementation, the project account was held in
British Pounds because there was a legal battle between the PA and USA over families of
people with dual citizenship. Exchange rates fluctuated during implementation, but any
financing gaps for subprojects were covered by an additional US$20,000 in community
contributions. Regular supervision missions have confirmed that the project has complied
with the obligations of financial reporting and auditing: (i) audit reports and Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted to the Bank on time and there were no overdue
external audit reports and IFRs at the time of the project closing date. All audit reports
and IFRs were reviewed by the Bank and comments provided to the government.




                                            16
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
58.    The VNDP resulted in a wealth of knowledge on how to implement CDD in the
WBG and a well-defined approach that is applicable and replicable in the local context.
The MOLG developed a Policy Paper on Community Participation in March 2011, based
on the preliminary VNDP experiences. The VNDP approach is being used by the PA and
other donors to implement projects. Examples on ongoing poverty reduction programs
that use the VNDP methodology are: (a) the UNDP-implemented Deprived Families
Economic Empowerment Programme, (b) the MOLG’s Strategic Development and
Investment Planning “light” implementation in remote areas supported by JICA, and (c)
the MOLG’s PA-financed third cycle of the VNDP.

59.    The sustainability of project investments centers on the social cohesion and joint
implementation across communities supported through a community-driven development
approach as the main underlying objective of the project. The financial sustainability of
subprojects is generally difficult to achieve in a CDD approach, but is reflected in the
emphasis that was put on joint subproject implementation, as an important step towards
leveraging economies of scale in service provision. Further, the monitoring of community
contributions was effective, and overall community contributions were far beyond the
expected 10 percent, thus establishing the principle of private funding as an efficient cost-
recovery mechanism and indication that real needs are being met by the financed
subprojects, based on the willingness to contribute to the services.

60.     The continued delivery of services from implemented subprojects is supported by
the requirement for communities to develop O&M plans and have the PMT screen these
as part of the subproject selection process, combined with coordination with sector
ministries for operation of subprojects. Further, the technical audits generally confirmed
that subprojects were operational and of good quality and that technical specifications
had been followed, although sometimes with minor shortcomings. The audits confirmed
that the O&M plans were generally respected, that furniture and utility connections were
provided for the relevant subprojects, but that in some cases O&M procedures (e.g. in the
case of a public park) should be written down to support their proper implementation.
The audits further confirmed that utility bills and operation are paid for by user fees or
revenue from renting out of the relevant subprojects (community centers, public parks,
water supply, etc.).

61.     Sustainability of the CDD approach depends on how it can be supported going
forward. The process is not yet self-sustaining, as it needs to be anchored in development
of improved service delivery, for which funding is not generally available. Community
mobilization is also a heavy task which the MOLG cannot undertake on its own, and
which should be institutionalized, e.g. through leveraging the program for community
credits for university students and introducing limited incentives for students to
participate to the mobilization process (e.g. refund of transports expenses, training).

62.    The MOLG has sent a formal request to the Bank to assist in designing a follow-
on operation to the VNDP, and a Project Concept Note was approved in March 2014. The
new program should build upon the VNDP’s positive result to nurture bottom-up and


                                             17
organic joint development investments among villages, and strengthen its support while
ensuring equity among participating villages for the joint investments. This operation
would build on the VNDP while factoring in a more institutionalized approach to
improving the financial and administrative capacity of VCs, in line with a more
comprehensive approach to decentralization and local service delivery in the WBG,
which the MOLG will be assisted to develop. In this proposed operation, the
sustainability of subprojects would be strengthened further by putting subprojects on the
budgets of local communities, and putting additional emphasis on financial sustainability.
The new operation should also strengthen the local economic development aspect of the
CDD approach to leverage additional funds for local development directly in the local
communities.

63.     The objective of amalgamating small LGUs into larger, more economically viable
entities will continue to be supported by the PA in the future. Increased emphasis will be
placed on revenue mobilization and enabling the VCs to better take on service delivery
tasks, through inter-community collaboration, and to overcome the obstacles that come
from some communities seeing amalgamation as imposed from outside, while others
perceive it as a threat to their individual socio-cultural characteristics and identity. The
decision to involve VC members in PSGs in spite of opposition from local communities
means there is a basis for adjusting for an approach with stronger involvement of VCs.
The presence of the (now elected) VC members in the PSGs is an indication that the
capacity built and the project memory regarding CDD and CDPs will remain in formal as
well as informal institutions in the local community no matter what the chosen
configuration going forward. Findings from the MOLG’s review of Joint Service Council
(JSC)’s role and function will be critical in this context. The review is to be concluded in
2014.

64.     LGUs continue to face significant investment needs in basic infrastructure and
service delivery. Given that VCs cannot access funds provided under the current MDP,
the closing of the VNDP will leave a funding gap for villages and marginalized
communities. In light of the PA’s persistent fiscal crisis, currently, no alternative source
of reliable financing exists. Financial sustainability of community investments requires
additional attention, e.g. through introduction of user fees as experimented by some
villages in the West Bank or municipal contribution, as with one case in Gaza.

65.     The proposed follow-on operation would aim to close the imminent funding gap
and leverage additional sources of funds. It would scale-up the bottom-up approach for
community development and joint service delivery to a larger number of beneficiaries.
The program is still in early stages of identification but would potentially seek to: (i) roll-
out the tested and established community mobilization methodology in villages and
neighborhoods not yet benefitting under the VNDP; (ii) continue to provide funding for
CDD type investments in qualifying communities; and (iii) strengthen programmatic
sector engagement. Now that the majority of VCs are elected, their involvement will be
sought strengthened while striking a balance between the outreach capacity of the MOLG
and the number of counterparts. The MDP has developed an O&M manual. This would
be considered for application under the follow-on operation to improve the sustainability
of investments, which remains a weak point in spite of O&M arrangements being part of

                                              18
the screening criteria for subprojects under VNDP and despite improvements in the
treatment of O&M aspects between cycles 1 and 2.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of objectives: High. Relevance of design: Modest to Substantial.

66.    The objective of promoting a coordinated development approach which builds the
capacity of communities to plan for and manage development resources remains highly
relevant. The MOLG developed a Policy Paper on Community Participation in March
2011 and the PA is continuing to finance subprojects in the VNDP villages and
neighborhoods based on the CDPs developed under the project. The MOLG also refers
donors to the CDPs developed under the VNDP when directing investments. The VNDP
was used to draw important lessons on how to develop a viable approach to community
development based on a participatory approach.

67.     Pillar one of the current World Bank Interim Strategy Note (2012-2014) for the
WBG is to strengthen the institutions of a future state to efficiently manage public
finances and ensure services to citizens, aligned to the governance and social blocks of
the National Development Plan. Support to the JSCPDs contributed to this and, as
demonstrated in section 3.2, fully met the objective. The need for joint service delivery
remains critical due to the small nature of Palestinian villages. Most of these villages
have less than 5,000 residents, which makes individual investment and service delivery
potentially costly and inefficient. The VNDP’s success to create organic and bottom-up
culture of joint development investments among villages was particularly important in
the context of mixed results of the MOLG’s top-down approach to amalgamate villages
and municipalities to achieve the same goal. The funds provided through the VNDP
further inter-community cooperation but the VNDP and follow-on operation do not
provide enough incentives by themselves to meet the PA’s sector goal of consolidating
LGUs. The PA is therefore reflecting on further policy mechanisms to further the still
relevant objective of consolidating LGUs, including resource mobilization, and reduce
the dependence on donor funds.

68.    The project design was solid and built on involvement of all stakeholders during
preparation, including establishment of the PMT. It incorporated lessons learned from
elsewhere, had relevant systems set in place to support the CDD process through the OCs,
and was designed so that lessons learned from cycle 1 could be incorporated directly into
cycle 2. The design contributed to achieving the expected objectives, although a
shortcoming is noted regarding the PAD being too optimistic about the time required for
community mobilization. This was a substantial part of the reason for making an
extension to the project closing date necessary. Also, the results framework should have
included an indicator to measure the part of the PDO related to management of
development resources.




                                           19
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

69.    The PDO “to promote a coordinated development approach which builds the
capacity of communities to plan for and manage development resources” was achieved,
as measured by the indicators and supporting evidence. The project reached 445,000
beneficiaries in 109 of the poorest communities in the WBG against a target of 257,000
beneficiaries. In the West Bank, 93 villages (out of currently 217) were reached and 13
neighborhoods and 3 refugee camp blocks were targeted in Gaza (no official count of
neighborhoods exists). Around 58 percent of beneficiaries were female. All planning for
subprojects came from the beneficiaries, with the assistance from JSCPDs and the OCs.
This represents a coordinated approach, for which the usefulness was demonstrated
throughout the WBG. Many more joint subprojects were carried out than anticipated,
especially in cycle 2, due to the benefits shown from cooperation in cycle 1. In fact,
under cycle 2, 27 villages (29% of villages benefiting from VNDP) within 5 JSCPDs
have contributed their individual allocations entirely for the benefit of joint subprojects.

70.     The project was restructured in March 2012 and the PDO indicators were
amended. The ADPs in PDO indicator 1 were replaced by CDPs and the PDO indicator 2
was reworded to be more precise. Therefore, according to the harmonized criteria for
rating restructured projects, the rating of PDO should be based on a split evaluation of the
project against the PDO indicators and targets before and after restructuring. However,
since the target for the reworded indicators were not changed and the result of the
evaluation against indicators before and after restructuring would be the same, the split
evaluation is implied and not explicitly presented in the section below. At that time of
restructuring US$4.96 million were disbursed, corresponding to 49.6 percent of final
disbursements of US$10 million at the end of the project for the Trust Fund for Gaza and
the West Bank (TFGWB).

71.      PDO indicator 1 “Percentage of activities identified through the CDPs that receive
funding from other sources” is surpassed, before and after restructuring. The target was
20 percent in both cases and the achievement was 23.6 percent. Before restructuring the
indicator measured the percentage of activities identified through the ADPs that receive
funding from other sources. After restructuring, the indicator measured the percentage of
financing of block grants leveraged from other sources for priorities identified through
CDPs, which was more precise, given the decision to change the ADPs to CDPs. The
result is in fact the same against both indicators. It was expected that funding from other
sources would surpass 20 percent, and in the end communities were able to leverage
approximately US$33 million to finance priorities in the CDPs prepared under the VNDP,
according to the PMT’s tracking of financing in beneficiary areas.8 This is around four
times the total grant amount of US$7.8 million allocated for community subproject
investments under Component 1, a very high level of leveraging of funds, which


8
    The full list of activities funded by other donors is available in the project file.



                                                          20
represents 23.6 percent of the aggregate estimated cost of activities (around US$140
million), listed in the CDPs.

72.     The planning capacity of the communities was developed through the wide and
representative participation to PSGs, which led the process of developing ADPs/CDPs.
This achievement is particularly important given that the VNDP beneficiary communities
were selected based on criteria of poverty and exclusion and history of lack of investment.
The project substantially contributed to reversing the investment trend in these deprived
areas by demonstrating the feasibility of investments and providing communities with
strong financing arguments in the form of ADPs/CDPs, all of which are available on the
VNDP web pages. The result was achieved due to the quality of the ADPs/CDPs, their
promotion to donors by the MOLG and the increased attractiveness of communities as
investment objects for donor-funded operations. In many cases, the VNDP paved the way
for investments in areas that other donors had not wanted to invest in due to uncertainty
around the zoning of the area by the Israeli authorities.

73.     PDO Indicator 2 “Percentage of projects with socially and/or economically
marginalized groups as benefiting from investments” is surpassed, before and after
restructuring. This indicator measures the percentage of projects with economically
and/or socially marginalized groups as main beneficiaries. The target was 70 percent, but
the project achieved a result of 90 percent of socially and/or economically marginalized
groups as main beneficiaries from 216 subprojects financed under cycles 1 and 2.
According to the cycle 2 BIA, 95 percent of respondents found that the CDD approach
was an opportunity for the communities to strengthen their relations and joint efforts, and
79 percent of direct beneficiaries considered mobilization activities as greatly relevant to
their community, an 11 point increase from the cycle 1 BIA. 9 The rest (21 percent)
consider them somewhat relevant, and no respondents found them irrelevant.

74.      The coordinated approach through PSGs representing the local communities led
to a wide of range of subprojects that benefit women and youth in particular. As can be
seen from the list in Annex 2, many subprojects were in roads, which result in economic
boost to the local communities, including access of farmers to their agricultural lands, but
there are also a substantial number of subprojects that target marginalized groups directly,
such as: (a) four women centers (resulting in increased social activities and networking);
(b) support to twelve kindergartens; (c) five street lighting subprojects; (d) construction
or rehabilitation of five classrooms, support to seven youth centers and to three sports
facilities, and delivery of equipment for schools (which benefits youth through increased
enrolment, education quality, reduction of distance to school, and new grades opening
up); and (e) nine subprojects to improve access to water, which also in particular benefit
women due to reduced time to fetch water and/or savings on the water budget. Moreover,
testimonies from beneficiaries confirmed, even for roads subprojects, the social


9
 Beneficiaries in the BIA methodology refers to the direct beneficiaries (LGUs/JSCs) and indirect
beneficiaries (community members who participated in the project activities). This is different from the
definition in section 1.4 of the ICR, where beneficiaries are defined as those benefiting from subprojects.



                                                     21
dimension of improving human relations; as neighborhoods with virtually no vehicle
access were upgraded, and as school children were provided with clean streets for
walking to and from schools in all seasons. Other subprojects had a positive impact on
local communities finances, mainly construction of public buildings, which led to savings
in renting cost, on top of the better services provided to communities.

75.     While quantitative data on service delivery is not available, the BIAs do provide a
good indication of the satisfaction with the services delivered, combined with the feed-
back from beneficiaries during the many field visits, which confirmed considerable added
value from investing in road rehabilitation on the lives of women and youth. Testimonies
spoke of street lighting providing safer walking trips for females and youngsters in a
highly conservative society, paved roads providing safer and cleaner walking to school
children, and easier walking and vehicle access to primary care facilities, a very
substantial improvement especially for the pregnant and for early childhood care.
According to the BIAs, more than half of both direct and indirect beneficiaries state that
projects were successful in satisfying the community needs. The percentage of
beneficiaries that consider that subprojects “contributed greatly” to satisfying community
needs increased from 24 percent for cycle 1 to 54 percent for cycle 2, testifying also to
the improved planning approach and better community consultations in the second cycle.
In addition, the BIAs provided qualitative evidence that the involvement of socially
marginalized groups influenced positively on the prioritization of community subprojects.
43 percent of direct beneficiaries believe that subprojects contributed greatly to the
development of services provided to women, while 49 percent state the same in services
related to youth. These are groups that would not otherwise benefit from such services.

76.     The part of the PDO related to managing development resources was also
substantially achieved, as JSCPDs now have demonstrated their capacity to manage all
project funds, collect the required counterpart contributions, and pay contractors. The
VNDP has strengthened the engineering and financial management capacity of the
JSCPDs and enabled them to assist villages in implementing development. This is
important progress to enable JSCPDs to play an increasing role in the local development
process, as a step towards either amalgamating VCs or enabling the JSCPDs to support
communities directly. In fact, several LGUs targeted by the VNDP have formally
amalgamated into larger, more economically viable entities. Although this is not mainly
attributable to the VNDP, due to the limited funds, the awareness of LGUs regarding the
importance of joint projects contributed to making the amalgamation process possible. A
total of 13 smaller VCs merged into 6 larger VCs and further 3 VCs merged with a
municipality. Finally, it should be noted that the JSCPD’s capacity to manage the project
cycle was also strengthened through their direct responsibility for subproject procurement.

77.     The VCs also feel more confident and able to manage and support local
development processes, as they themselves testified during site visits, including the
development of CDPs. The communities proved able to mobilize their social capital and
local resources to fundraise for their community priorities apart from those funded by the
VNDP. The communities would not have managed to leverage more than US$30 million
of funding had it not been to the training and support they were provided with in order to


                                            22
come up with convincing and meaningful CDPs. Further, the VNDP has also allowed
neighborhoods in Gaza to leverage financing for identified investments directly from
municipalities. There is still room for improvement regarding involvement of
beneficiaries in subproject implementation, as demonstrated by the BIAs, although
substantially shifting this will probably require a longer time-frame.

78.     Intermediate outcomes are either largely achieved or surpassed. The most relevant
intermediate indicators in relation to the objective of including women and youth are
surpassed: (a) the percentage of subprojects implemented with women and youth being
among the main beneficiaries has reached 41 percent, and 44 percent, respectively (end
of project targets were 20 percent and 30 percent, respectively). The OCs made a
concerted effort to use in community mobilization youth volunteers with ties to the local
communities, which promoted acceptance, facilitated access to information at the village
levels, especially in relatively larger communities which PSG members could not cover
alone, and helped mobilize the young part of the population. (b) the project has
emphasized women and youth participation in the decision making process – women and
youth represented 27 percent and 41 percent of PSGs compared to 20 percent and 30
percent, respectively, as required by the project.

79.    The need and willingness of local communities to invest in service improvements
was fully demonstrated by the beneficiary contributions to subproject investments (cash
and in-kind), which reached US$1.77 million. This is 15.2 percent of the total VNDP
amount compared to the project requirement of 10 percent, a very significant result.
Furthermore, all subprojects succeeded in collecting the full counterpart contribution,
which proves that the project financing and disbursement mechanism as adjusted during
the MTR contributed to sustainability and replicability of the approach.

80.     All communities developed CDPs, as foreseen and all JSCPDs had capacity
profiles elaborated during 2009. The quality of the process leading to the CDPs and the
content was an important driving factor to entice other donors to provide financing for
services in the VNDP beneficiary communities. The project also succeeded in providing
adequate incentives for communities to develop joint projects. The target of 40 percent
joint subprojects was reached with 39 percent of subprojects being joint. Just as
importantly, 91 percent of total funds went to joint subprojects. Among the VNDP’s most
important achievements was to have encouraged and materialized joint development
activities among villages and neighborhoods to achieve efficiency and economies of scale
through a bottom-up CDD approach. In cycle 2, 27 villages (29% of villages benefiting
from the VNDP) within 5 JSCPDs contributed their individual allocations entirely for the
benefit of joint subprojects. The JSCPD capacity profiles served to develop training plans
for the JSCPDs which were delivered as formal training during cycle 1 on project cycle
management, CDD, fiduciary aspects, M&E, and communication.

81.    In terms of transparency and responsiveness, all communities used public notice
boards to publish results of the planning process and the three complaints that were
received were fully treated. Feedback from project stakeholders during the ICR mission
however pointed to a continued need for direct beneficiaries’ better understanding of


                                           23
budgeting processes and increased technical skills. The only result that was not achieved
at 100 percent was the management of the project by the MOLG staff. The PMT had 13
full-time and part-time members total at the end of the project, with 8 of those being civil
servants. The MOLG did make efforts to reach the target by allocating three regional
district officers to work with the PMT on community mobilization, besides the civil
servants in the PMT. However, due to a hiring freeze, the MOLG could not recruit
personnel needed for fiduciary tasks required by the Bank (financial management), and
an environmental engineer consultant could not be hired as civil servant.

82.     The satisfactory achievement of PDO is supported by the demonstration of the
VNDP’s replicability as a platform for village development. The VNDP has established
an effective CDD approach in the WBG to finance crucial community and social service
needs, while achieving its higher-level objective of building social capital. At least five of
the women and youth clubs involved in the CDD process later obtained formal
recognition as CBOs. As confirmed by the BIAs, relations among JSCs were
strengthened as a result of the subprojects but there is a need to further reinforce the value
of the joint projects as a means to solve collective problems within the JSCs. Moreover,
the project has generated a core of leaders capable of managing a CDD process and has
established a replicable Palestinian model for CDD, as demonstrated by the use of the
approach by the PA and other donors, and the incorporation of the VNDP experiences
into the curriculum at Birzeit University.

83.     The Community Development Plans (CDPs) produced by the VNDP became the
platform for communities to prioritize needs and seek donors’ support to finance priority
needs beyond financing available by the VNDP. Anecdotal evidence from the ICR
mission suggests that communities have successfully used CDPs supported by the VNDP
to leverage other donor funds. For example, the East Nablus Joint Service Council used
the CDP to secure €1.2 million from the European Union to finance a wastewater
network and the Deir Al-Hatab village leveraged funding for paving internal roads for the
amount of US$250,000 funded by USAID. The project resulted in 58,000 person-days of
employment generated through construction work, which contributed to mitigating the
effect of the high levels of unemployment.

84.     The process in Ramadin exemplifies the evolution over the life of the project.
From no participation of women in the first meeting, there were later on four women
participants in the nine-member PSG. The shift is in fact very substantial in a patriarchal
society where traditionally women have only participated publically on special social
occasions such as weddings, but the VNDP contributed strongly to changing the existing
power balance at the micro-level in favor of a more gender- and age-balanced
participation in public affairs. The criteria to have women participating in PSGs was
advanced on several occasions by women who latched onto this possibility to have voice
in the project. Further underpinning the impact on gender issues is the fact that for cycle
2, three PSGs have selected women as head of a PSG position in the West Bank
compared to 93 male-headed PSGs in the first cycle.




                                             24
3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

85.     No cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal due to the demand-driven
nature of the project but a cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the ICR. The
economic justification in the PAD was based on World Bank research, which has shown
that infrastructure projects under CDD operations have lower unit costs and tend to
increase access to and quality of social services, especially to marginalized groups,
thereby also increasing utilization of basic services. Social rates of return increase when
the levels of income, social and human capital decreases, so targeting the poorest areas,
as under the VNDP, assures high social rates of return. Sustainability considerations were
also part of the economic justification, by devising mechanisms early on to transform the
participatory VNDP approach into a generally accepted community-based development
and planning tool with efficient cost-recovery mechanisms through financial or in-kind
contribution of beneficiaries.

86.     This economic reasoning at appraisal is confirmed as valid at the closing of the
project. The VNDP succeeded in reaching poor and marginalized groups, based on the
targeting criteria and CDD methodology developed during preparation. The technical
audits and beneficiary survey have confirmed the quality of the delivered services as well
as their utilization. The participatory VNDP approach has become a generally accepted
CDD and planning tool, and is being pursued by the PA on own funds. A follow-up
operation is being identified based on a formal request from the PA, to be financed by the
TFGWB, and with strong coordination with other donors to leverage needed additional
funding. These factors confirm the sustainability of the VNDP approach. The monitoring
of community contributions was effective, and overall community contributions were far
beyond the expected 10 percent, thus establishing the principle of private funding as an
efficient cost-recovery mechanism and indication that real needs are being met by the
financed subprojects.

87.     For the ICR an economic analysis was carried out on Component 1, which
represents about 74 percent of project investments. Cost-benefit analysis was done on
investments in roads, public buildings, water, and equipment, representing 90 percent of
Component 1 investments. Cost-effectiveness analysis was done on the remaining 10
percent of investments (solid waste management, street lighting, and building
furnishings). Since most of the subprojects financed by the VNDP were not income
generating, the main economic benefits were estimated for each type of subproject based
on document review, focus group discussions with beneficiaries, and interviews with
subprojects and contractors. A discount rate of 5 percent was used in the analysis.10 The
full methodology and assumptions is presented in Annex 3.


10
  Though a discount rates of about 10 percent is used for Bank projects in the Middle East and North
Africa Region and other developing countries, the 5 percent is deemed an appropriate rate for the WBG,
since the current long-term borrowing rate of public loans is about 4 percent, projected inflation rate is
quite low (within the range of 2 percent). Other donor institutions, mainly the German Development Bank



                                                    25
88.     As shown in Table 1 below, the investments subjected to cost-benefit analysis are
all viable from an economic point of view with positive Net Present Value (NPV). The
total NPV is US$6.2 million for investments of US$7.1 million analyzed and Economic
Rates of Return (ERRs) are all above 10 percent. NPV for all investments remain positive
when subjected to sensitivity analysis. The investments subjected to cost-effectiveness
analysis amounted to US$0.77 million, and benefited 129,000 people, at an average cost
of US$6.0 per beneficiary, a very reasonable figure given the type and quality of service
delivered (furnishings, street lighting, and solid waste management). Overall cost per
beneficiary for the VNDP was US$17.6, which is below the PAD’s allocation of US$26-
US$50 allocation per person in the beneficiary communities. For the road subprojects
category, which is the most standardized category of subprojects, the cost per beneficiary
was US$12.9. This is comparable to the costs presented in the PAD of US$9.9 per
beneficiary when adjusted for inflation in the interim.

                      Table 1: Result of cost-benefit analysis of Component 1

    Sector            TFGWB        Community          Total cost   % of    NPV (US$             ERR
                     Contribution Contribution          (US$)    component million)
                        (US$)        (US$)                          cost
    Roads                1,505,917     143,926         1,649,843    21%       1.6               14%
    Water                  466,212     142,654           608,866     8%      0.58               28%
    Equipment              710,499     115,858           826,357    11%      1.13               32%
    Public buildings     2,845,943   1,139,347         3,985,290    51%      2.89               13%
    Total                5,528,571   1,541,785         7,070,356   90%       6.20

                  Table 2: Result of cost-effectiveness analysis of Component 1

    Sector             TFGWB       Community Total cost    % of    Number of Cost per
                      Contribution Contribution (US$)    component beneficiari beneficiary
                         (US$)        (US$)                 cost       es        (US$)
    Furnishing             579,267       36,103  615,370    8%         85,000     5.9
    Street lighting         98,197       38,036  136,233    2%         19,000     6.3
    Solid waste             14,128        5,355   19,483   0.2%        25,000     0.6
     Total                  691,592          79,494        771,086   10%           129,000       6.0


89.     The efficiency of project implementation arrangements is rated substantial. The
project was designed for the PMT in the MOLG to gradually take over implementation
responsibility, supported by gradually decreasing number of consultants. As the project
progressed, the PMT took over implementation and increased the number of trained staff
allocated to the project, demonstrating that the expected knowledge transfer was
effectively taking place. At the end of the project, the PMT is capable of implementing



(KFW) also use a 5 percent discount rate. A sensitivity analysis is done to assess the impact of using a 10
percent discount rate



                                                      26
the project with minimal external support, principally related to fiduciary requirements
imposed by World Bank procedures. The PMT was not able to fill these positions with
staff due to a hiring freeze in the PA administration. The OCs delivered a very high level
of service. In the West Bank this was particularly efficient from the VNDP point of view.
A total of 109 communities in the WBG were provided with community facilitation
services. The financial offer of the OC in the West Bank had substantially underestimated
the effort needed, especially the transport time and cost to reach the beneficiary
communities to participate regularly to community mobilization activities. To honor their
engagements, the OCs opted to use public transport, which increased their time budget,
but resulted in high service provided to the project at a low cost. Transport cost was not
an important issue for the OC in the Gaza Strip.

90.     The efficiency of project implementation itself is rated moderate to substantial,
due to the time taken to deliver results. The PAD had promised to deliver the project in
two 24-month cycles, which was not possible. Implementation delays led to project
implementation being rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for some time and an 18 month
extension to the project became necessary in 2012. However, the overall design was
robust enough to allow changes to the implementation arrangements during the MTR that
led to a more efficient process during cycle 2.

91.    The overall efficiency of the project is rated substantial based on the general
considerations of efficiency, the cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis of
Component 1 investments, and the substantial efficiency of project implementation
arrangements. In this connection, the shortcoming on time efficiency is evaluated as
minor.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

92.      The project had very few shortcomings of substance on any of the dimensions of
relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. The indicators, data, and supporting evidence fully
document the project implementation process, its impacts, and the continued relevance of
the project objectives. The project was at times during implementation rated Moderately
Satisfactory on PDO and Moderately Unsatisfactory on Implementation Progress. This
was largely due to the one substantial design shortcoming, which was to promise to
deliver the project results in too short a timeframe, combined with implementation
difficulties described in the ICR, slow disbursement, and the temporary delays on getting
results.

93.    The VNDP was a learning process for all involved parties. For the Bank it was a
question of learning to adopt global lessons to the local context in the WBG. The PMT,
beneficiaries, and OCs also had to master the approach; for some people in beneficiary
communities it was a question of accepting to change deep-seated ways of doing things.
The project was designed to bring about this change. By operationalizing the lessons
learned during implementation and through the efforts by the PMT and Bank team the



                                           27
project fully succeeded in the end, in spite of initial difficulties. The last ISR rated PDO
and Implementation Progress Satisfactory, which is confirmed for the ICR.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
94.    The project continued to operate in Gaza when other donors stopped projects
following the election of a Hamas-led government in 2006. This contributed to mitigating
the social impacts of the blockade, especially in the poorest neighborhoods where the
VNDP was operating. For this reason there was also very high engagement in the process
in Gaza. The other poverty, gender, and social impacts are fully treated in the sections
above.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
95.     Birzeit University in Ramallah, from where the West Bank OCs were recruited,
now incorporate the lessons learned from the implementation of the VNDP in university
courses on community development assuring further value added of the project. The
VNDP also introduced computerized financial management systems in JSCPDs (as part
of the PCF-financed preparatory activities), which is a substantial step forward from the
manual systems used previously.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
96.     The Rafah municipality in Gaza liked the idea of PGS so much they replicated in
in other areas not benefiting from the VNDP.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
97.    BIAs were carried out twice during the project, at the end of each cycle. The
methodology and detailed results are presented in Annex 5. Qualitative and quantitative
data was collected from a representative sample of direct (LGUs/JSCs) and indirect
beneficiaries (community members who participated in the project activities) as well as
other stakeholders through questionnaire, key informant interviews, and focus groups.
The overall methodology remained essentially unchanged for the two BIAs, with the
caveat that the first BIA focused on more on community mobilization while the second
BIA related more to the outcome of implemented projects.

98.     The main findings of the first BIA and recommendations were: (a) generally high
awareness and relevance (even higher in Gaza) of the community mobilization process,
which however declined proportionally to the length of the process and needed to be
understood better; (b) need to generally enhance women’s presence and active
participation in the PSGs, although when women, when involved, are more engaged than
men; (c) the role of youth declines as the process moves into decision-making and
implementation, since the OCs could not find ways to involve communities in
participatory M&E; (d) individual projects were not as visible as joint projects; (f)
relations among JSCs were strengthened as a result of the subprojects but there is need to
further reinforce the value of the joint projects as a means to solve collective problems


                                            28
within the JSCs; (g) better balance time between mobilization and subproject
implementation for immediate visible results; (h) need to enhance ability to attract new
donors; (i) the involvement of other marginalized groups was not systematic and needed
to be strengthened; (j) need to increase the level of involvement of the LGUs in Gaza to
strengthen the PSGs role in joint activities; (k) in the West Bank the JSC’s role in
strengthening the relations among the VCs should be further supported, e.g. through full-
time employees.

99.     The second BIA generally found that recommendations from the first BIA had
been incorporated in the project, but also pointed to some remaining challenges to
address. The findings were: (a) the mobilization process took less time, as recommended
in the first BIA, and satisfaction as well as level of participation was higher; (b)
membership of women and youth in PSGs increased in terms of numbers, relevance, and
influence, but decreased slightly in meeting participation rate while participation rate of
men increased. Their participation was considered valuable by all respondents; (c)
awareness of capacity building activities has risen substantially and participation of both
women and men had increased; (d) direct beneficiaries in the West Bank are more likely
to consider joint projects as very relevant, while those in Gaza are more supportive of
individual projects; (e) more than half of both direct and indirect beneficiaries state that
projects were somewhat successful in satisfying the community needs; (f) 95 percent of
direct respondents find that the CDD approach was an opportunity for the communities to
strengthen their relations and joint efforts; (g) 80 percent of indirect beneficiaries believe
the CDD approach helped communities become more capable of engaging women,
compared to 86 percent who say the same about youth. While female respondents were
most likely to say that their communities are ready to engage women, younger
respondents were the least likely to say their communities are ready to engage youth; (h)
as in the first BIA, women and youth are most likely to be excluded in the later stages of
project management, in part because more specific expertise is required for
implementation and the PSG take the role of monitoring implementation.

100. Two stakeholder workshops were held at the end of the project and aimed at
evaluating the project cycles and making recommendations. The summary of the
proceedings are presented in Annex 6. The workshops generally corroborated the
findings of the BIAs, notably regarding need to optimize the length of project cycles, the
high relevance, and value added of youth and women participation, and the wish to revise
the 80/20 split. They also provided a broader perspective on other issues, the most salient
of which are: (a) need for increased involvement of JSC and municipal engineers to help
eliminate unfeasible projects, provide more accurate costing, and develop realistic O&M
arrangements; (b) importance of the project in brining CBOs together for the first time;
(c) usefulness of PSGs in M&E throughout the project implementation; (d) relevance of
the PMT, but need to involve the MOLG district offices more; (e) need to improve
marketing of CDPs by the MOLG and training in fundraising; (f) complexity of new
approach and need to extend the capacity building period; (g) providing a continuous
needs assessment to track changes during the implementation of the micro-projects; (h)
continue to explore ways to transfer grant funds between subprojects; (i) project resulted
in improved relationship between the LGUs and the local community, especially in Gaza.


                                             29
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

101. The risk that the PA will not continue to promote a coordinated development
approach is moderate. Community development is essentially about building a critical
mass of leaders that can be self-sustaining, with the project has contributed to. The
current use of the approach developed by the VNDP by the PA to continue to finance
community subprojects is proof that the approach is taking root. The main risk to stronger
coordination comes from the disparate nature of the approaches supported by different
donors, which will take some time to harmonize due to financing preferences and
procedures. However, the PA has demonstrated that it is capable of bringing together a
large number of donors around a common program, as in the ongoing MDP, so the trend
will likely be towards greater coordination.

102. Some work still remains to be done to strengthen the institutional framework and
lines of accountability (vertically between levels of government and horizontally between
citizens, local authorities, NGOs/CBOs, and service providers). The use of subprojects as
an incentive for communities to engage in a community development process has fully
demonstrated its usefulness in the Palestinian context and with adjustments to place more
weight on coordination between VCs rather than directly promoting amalgamation it will
continue to be supported and promoted further by the PA and World Bank in a new
operation.

103. However, additional risk comes from the overall country context, which remains
fragile and unpredictable, and coordination between VCs is constantly challenged by
zoning rules imposed by the Israeli authorities. Political tensions and the threat of a
resurgence of violence between Israeli authorities and the PA could still pose a risk that
priorities will change towards more emergency oriented and top-down development
approaches. Finally, O&M of the subprojects also poses a risk. Although the screening
and subproject selection process assured that minimal resources (technical, human,
financial) are available to operate the new services, financial means of the communities
are generally very limited and could lead to lack of adequate repairs and accelerated
degradation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

104. The Bank brought considerable expertise and sector knowledge to the design of
the project, assured that most lessons learned elsewhere and in the WBG were adequately
incorporated and that risks would be mitigated, and hired lead local social and
community development specialists, one in the West Bank and one in Gaza, whose
experience in facilitating preparation consultations ensured a localized project design.
With a Task Team Leader based in the field, the Bank could participate regularly to face-


                                           30
to-face meetings to prepare the project and provide guidance on the finalization of
preparatory studies. The Bank team also did the work to obtain the PCF, which added
US$250,000 to project preparation, which the MOLG used to hire essential consultants
for project preparation and finance project preparatory activities, including the
preparation of manuals. The quality-at-entry was moderately satisfactory since the overly
optimistic project implementation schedule was a shortcoming that led to delays during
implementation, which could not be corrected for until after the MTR.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

105. The Bank Task Team Leaders were based in the field throughout. Supervision
missions were regular, and team members were based in both the West Bank and Gaza to
assure full implementation support in spite of movement restrictions, in addition to
regular visits to Gaza by staff based in the West Bank and vice-versa. The hiring freeze in
MOLG restrained the solutions the Bank could propose to mitigate the shortfalls in
implementation capacity, but the Bank provided social and environmental safeguards
training and mentoring for the PMT as needed. During the MTR, 11 days of site visits
were carried out and a thorough review of project activities was assured. Starting at the
MTR, the Bank team also adopted regular monthly operational meeting with the PMT
with agreed actions and follow-up. The Bank also carried out regular visits to subprojects
in-between missions.

106. Generally, the Bank proactively identified and proposed solutions to threats to the
achievement of outcomes and assured the Bank’s fiduciary role. Since the project was
cyclical, it was only during the MTR that most necessary changes to the subproject cycle
could be made (as described in section 2.2). In spite of these substantial efforts during
implementation to turn around the project, it therefore took until well after the MTR
before the efforts paid off in terms of improved ratings in ISRs. This was not due to
shortcomings during supervision but resulted mainly from the overly optimistic
implementation timetable determined at appraisal, combined with the time taken for the
PMT to implement agreed actions. The Bank pro-actively identified problems with
implementation of environmental and social safeguards, proposed solutions and
monitored their implementation. The Bank also carried out regular and thorough reviews
of financial and procurement performance, which resulted in corrective measures being
proposed as necessary, combined with additional support and hands-on training.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

107. The Moderately Satisfactory performance during preparation and Satisfactory
performance during supervision justify a Moderately Satisfactory overall rating of Bank
performance. The initial design shortcomings were mostly responsible for project
implementation delays, so in spite of overall Satisfactory performance during
implementation, the project Implementation Progress against original targets was rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory for extended periods of time.

                                            31
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

108. The PA was involved in assuring project preparation and appraisal through
establishing the PMT in the MOLG early on. This involvement enabled the PMT to take
over implementation, initially with strong consultant support but eventually as a more
capable implementing agency. The PA complied with covenants and agreements
throughout the project. The Ministry of Finance sat on the Project Steering Committee,
which could have been more active, only meeting twice, but the PA is however fully
engaged in sustaining the results of the VNDP by using own funds to finance additional
activities in cycle 3 and is engaged in developing a sector policy through an ongoing
review of the role of JSCs.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

109. The PMT was established in the MOLG to participate to project preparation and
appraisal and was also responsible for implementation. It was foreseen that the PMT
would need support from external consultants, which was also the case, but during
implementation the civil servants seconded to the PMT took on increasing responsibility
for implementation. The initial lack of project experience in the PMT, in particular with
procurement and financial management, high turnover for procurement and financial
management consultants during cycle 1, initial deficiencies in consultants contract
management and difficulty to coordinate (in part because the OCs were not
communicating adequately with the PMT) and the tardiness of the PMT to implement
agreed actions following the MTR (such as seconding MOLG district officers to
subproject review and assuring subproject screening, adding procurement officers to the
PMT), essentially provides the explanation, along with the overly optimistic initial
implementation schedule, for why the project incurred start-up problems and
implementation delays, leading to the 18 months project extension.

110. On the positive side, it should be noted that during implementation, the MOLG
staff seconded to the PMT was actively seeking to learn from the OCs and external PMT
consultants, which meant that they gradually took on more responsibility for
implementation. In spite of the initial difficulties, and with several of the MOLG civil
servants seconded to the PMT only working part time on the VNDP, during the second
cycle the PMT made substantial, albeit belated, contributions to bring the project to
successful completion. For instance, by September 2012 the disbursement lag affecting
the project throughout implementation had been turned around, with disbursements now
ahead of projections as revised during the project restructuring. Also, the ICR prepared
by the PMT was submitted to the Bank two months before project closing.

111. The MOLG had particular constraints to meet the target for the number of staff
involved in project implementation compared to consultants, since the PA has a general


                                           32
hiring freeze and the required expertise was not available in-house. The PMT succeeded
in establishing an adequate M&E system and in following up on counterpart contribution.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

112. The performance of the PA was overall Satisfactory, although the Project Steering
Committee should have been more active to coordinate PA policies and to approve the
project’s annual work plan, as envisaged in the Committee’s TOR. The performance of
the PMT contributed to the initial implementation delays, and although the project was
eventually turned around, the initial shortcomings, which continued until after the MTR,
were substantial enough to justify an overall Moderately Satisfactory rating of Borrower
Performance.

6. Lessons Learned

113. A wealth of lessons were generated by the project, not least through the BIAs and
stakeholder workshops, summarized in section 3.6 above, and detailed in Annexes 5 and
6. The most salient lessons of general application and of particular interest to the follow-
on operation being prepared are presented below.

114. A CDD approach can effectively assure involvement of women and youth in a
patriarchal society, but success depends on the right incentives and regular monitoring.
However, future efforts must seek to maintain the quality of their roles and contributions,
including extending their active participation through the subproject implementation and
operation phase. Maintaining achievements especially for women is essential in future
interventions, through support for women groups to engage in institution-building.

115. Delivery of public goods and joint service provision should be scaled up in the
follow-on operation and linked to institution-building. This will be crucial to achieve
economies of scale and making inroads in the infrastructure deficit in poor communities
while considering sustainability. The follow-on operation should aim to leverage
additional sources of investments for the LGUs and strengthen the joint aspect of
programming with due consideration of impact on the ground, e.g., in very small villages
and neighborhoods with strong needs in geographically isolated areas. The newly elected
VCs should be involved better to support building of the institutions of state in harmony
with a bottom-up community-driven approach to complement top-down activities.

116. Future scaling up of village development support to geographically isolated and
marginalized villages will require a careful balance of institutional strengthening of VCs
and JSCPDs and facilitation by OCs in consideration of the future governance
arrangement being defined for LGUs by the MOLG. JSCPDs are often understaffed and
lack motivation to take on additional work on donor-funded programs, the MOLG does
not have the outreach capacity and therefore community mobilizers will be required in at
least part of the project cycle. The university community credit program should be sought
and leveraged. Other options for systematizing the role of youth student volunteers would


                                            33
be provision of moral incentives, such as official recommendations and appreciation
letters or networking opportunities with potential employers.

117. CDD-type projects should set aside ample time for the community mobilization
process, especially in a complex project environment, such as the WBG, and considering
the fact that process is just as important as physical outputs. The cyclical nature of the
VNDP meant that corrective measures could be implemented during cycle 2, but
significant efforts had to be made by the Bank and PMT to turn the project around and
end on a high note. As a result of the project process a lot of capacity has been built in the
PMT, OCs, and communities, but the learning process would have been less rushed with
more time set aside for cycle 1.

118. The project cycle could be further simplified and time needed for administrative
matters shortened by reducing approval layers and revisiting the OC’s role and
contractual modality. The engagement of OCs has generally added great value. In some
areas, however, the OC engagement may have added complexity to communication,
prolonged approval reviews, and paper work for communities. The new program should
take stock of the capacity built in VNDP beneficiary communities and need for a
differentiated process and intensive hand-holding to isolated villages that have never
received any CDD support.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
119. Comments were sought informally and received from the PMT on an early draft
of the ICR. Comments were later sought officially from the MOLG and MOF. The
MOLG communicated comments via e-mail in the form of lessons learned and
recommendations for a follow on operation. Those focused on capacity building needs
for the implementing agency, the importance of community mobilization for local
development interventions, and the need to bridge the service delivery capacity gaps
between village councils and municipalities. Comments also recommended to record,
monitor and track performance and outcome measures through a central database. The
comments also emphasized that marginalized areas should receive high attention.

(b) Cofinanciers
120. There were no cofinanciers. During project preparation the Islamic Development
Bank had expressed interest in financing parallel activities in new JSCPDs using the
VNDP approach, but the financing did not materialize.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
121.   No other partners or stakeholders commented on the ICR.




                                             34
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                              Percentage of
               Components                          Estimate              Estimate
                                                                                               Appraisal
                                                 (US$ millions)        (US$ millions)
1: Subprojects                                           7.70                  8.68                 112.78
 - of which TFGWB(1)                                     7.00                  6.91                  98.78
 - of which community contribution(2)                    0.70                  1.77                 252.72
2: Capacity Building (TFGWB)                              2.00                  2.21                110.65
3: Institutional Support (TFGWB)                         0.90                  0.77                  85.85
Total Baseline Cost                                     10.60                 11.67                 110.09
 - of which TFGWB(1)                                     9.90                  9.91(4)              100.09
 - of which community contribution(2)                    0.70                  1.77                 252.72
Physical Contingencies (TFGWB)(1)                        0.10                  0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                                     10.70                 11.67                 109.06
PCF(3)                                                   0.25                  0.23                  90.09
Total Financing Required                                10.25                 11.89(4)              116.05
 - of which TFGWB(1)                                    10.00                  9.91(4)               99.09
 - of which community contribution(2)                    0.70                  1.77                 252.72
 - of which PCF(3)                                       0.25                  0.23                  90.09
(1) Included in PAD estimates of cost.
(2) Parallel financing, not included in PAD cost tables as this was not part of the financing requested from
the Board. Included in the ICR for completeness.
(3) Project preparation cost, not included in PAD cost tables as this was not part of the financing requested
from the Board. Included in the ICR for completeness.
(4) Breakdown of cost by component is based on the latest available data from the PMT. The Actual/Latest
“Total Financing Required” in Table (a) reconciles with the cost by component. After the figures were
provided by the PMT, final disbursement for the TFGWB reached 100 percent, bringing the TFGWB
disbursements to US$10.0 million and the Actual (final) “Total Financing Required” to US$11.98.

(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                          Type of                                       Percentage
         Source of Funds                                   Estimate       Estimate
                                        Cofinancing                                    of Appraisal
                                                         (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Community contributions                    Parallel           0.70           1.77         252.72
Special Financing (TFGWB)
                                         Trust Fund           10.00                9.91             99.09
TF-92174
PCF (Project preparation)
                                         Trust Fund             0.25               0.23             90.09
TF-90994
Note: For additional details on actual financing for the project see note (4) to Table (a).




                                                      35
         Annex 2. Outputs by Component

         Component 1: Implementation of Subprojects Using a CDD Approach

         1.      The tables below present the subprojects implemented by the VNDP.11

                                        Table A2.1: VNDP cycle 1 subprojects

West Bank – North
                                                               Type of                                                    Cost
      District      JSCPD                    VC                                     Project Description
                                                               Project                                                   (US$)
 1   Tubas       Tubas          Ras Far’a, Wadi Far’a,          JointRehabilitation of land and agricultural            104,612
                                Tayaseer, Atouf, Thaghra,            roads through purchasing of excavator
                                Salhab, Qashdeh
 2   Tubas       Tubas          Thaghra                   Individual Installation of Street Lambs                        763
 3   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Beit Amin, Azzoun Atmeh      Joint   Renovation/ Rehabilitation of Beit                 34,441
                                                                     Amin and Azzoun Atmeh school
 4   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Ezbet Al-Ashqar, Ezbet       Joint   Rehabilitation of the school sanitation             9,494
                                Al-Modawar                           facilities
 5   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Ezbet Jal'oud, Ezbet         Joint   Building of a new school sanitation                10,504
                                Salman                               facility
 6   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Wadi Al-Rasha, Ras           Joint   Improve the connection between                      7,342
                                Teerah                               villages through access road
 7   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Ras Atiya, Daba             Joint    Rehabilitation of the health facility by           23,604
                                                                     explanation of the health clinic
 8   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Ezbet and Al-Ashqar       Individual Rehabilitate the women center and                   1,678
                                                                     kindergarten through purchasing of
                                                                     tools.
 9   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Addab'a                   Individual Development of youth sports center                  1,687
                                                                     through purchasing of sport tools
10 Qalqilya      Qalqilya/ West Al-Modawar                Individual Enhance the nursery and the raising                 935
                                                                     environment of children through
                                                                     purchasing of tools
11   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Ras Teereh                Individual Purchasing of solid waste containers                5,216
12   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Wadi Rasha                Individual Purchasing of equipment for the VC                   984
13   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Ras Atiyeh                Individual Purchasing of solid waste containers                1,477
14   Qalqilya    Qalqilya/ West Azzoun Atmeh              Individual Improve the school environment                      5,294
                                                                     through rehabilitation of the wall
15 Qalqilya      Qalqilya/ West Beit Amin                 Individual Provide drinking water through                      2,873
                                                                     purchasing of poster pump
16 Qalqilya      Qalqilya/ West Ezbet Jal'oud             Individual Installation of street umbrellas                    2,196
17 Qalqilya      Qalqilya/ West Ezbet Salman              Individual Improving the school facilities through              881
                                                                     purchasing of tools
18 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Nazlet Issa, Nazlet Abu      Joint   Building and finishing comprehensive               41,132
                 Sharwiyeh      Nar                                  community center
19 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Nazleh Wosta, Nazleh         Joint   Agricultural development through                   89,158
                 Sharwiyeh      Gharbiyeh, Nazhel                    establishment of agricultural access
                                Sharqiyeh, Saida                     road


         11
           Where several place names are mentioned against a project listed as individual, the places are part of one
         single VC. Amounts are the expected amounts in the subproject proposals and add up to US$7.6 million.



                                                             36
20 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Jaroushyeh, Maskoufa           Joint Rehabilitation and development of the       14,342
                 Sharwiyeh                                            road systems through building
                                                                      retraining walls
21 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Jaroushyeh                Individual Providing the school with computers          3,041
                 Sharwiyeh
22 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Maskoufa                  Individual Providing the school with computers          863
                 Sharwiyeh
23 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Aqqaba                    Individual Providing the school with computers          800
                 Sharwiyeh
24 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Nazlet Abu Nar            Individual Improve the village's kindergarten           756
                 Sharwiyeh                                            through purchasing of tools
25 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Nazleh Gharbiyeh          Individual Connect the school with the water            3,712
                 Sharwiyeh                                            network
26 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/       Nazleh Wosta              Individual Improve school environment by                1,515
                 Sharwiyeh                                            installation of fence
27 Salfeet       Southern        Iskaka, Yasouf              Joint    Enhance connectivity between villages       35,880
                 Salfeet                                              by opening access road
28 Salfeet       Southern        Khirbet Qeis, Farkha        Joint    Improve the capacity of olives farmers       6,956
                 Salfeet                                              through distribution of tools
29 Salfeet       West Salfeet    Masha, Sarta, Rafat          Joint   Enhancement of technical services to        79,748
                                                                      VCs through purchasing of electrical
                                                                      equipment
30 Salfeet       South Salfeet   Iskaka                    Individual Enhance the sports club services and         3,930
                                                                      activities through purchasing of tools
31 Salfeet       South Salfeet   Farkha                    Individual Expanding the water net pipe                21,660
32 Salfeet       South Salfeet   Khirbet Keis              Individual Street lighting                              2,851
33 Salfeet       South Salfeet   Yasouf                    Individual Provide the community hall with air          5,932
                                                                      condition
34 Salfeet       West Salfeet    Sarta                     Individual Develop Ali Sartawi Health Center            9,773
35 Salfeet       West Salfeet    Rafat                     Individual Improve the female high-school through       5,706
                                                                      purchasing of computers
36 Salfeet       West Salfeet    Masha                     Individual Installation of lighting system at the      14,877
                                                                      village
37 Nablus        East Nablus     Salem, Azmout, Deir Al-      Joint   Establishment of a JSC building             217,461
                                 Hatab, Beit Dajan,
                                 Roujeeb, Kufor Qalil
38   Nablus      East Nablus     Beit Dajan                Individual   Purchasing of computers                   11,668
39   Nablus      East Nablus     Deir Hatab                Individual   Public Park for children                  17,863
40   Nablus      East Nablus     Roujeeb                   Individual   Rehabilitation of water network           12,290
41   Nablus      East Nablus     Salem                     Individual   Adding class room to the female school    15,820
42   Nablus      East Nablus     Azmout                    Individual   Public Park for children                   8,964
43   Nablus      East Nablus     Kufor Qalil               Individual   Enhance School and learning                7,811
                                                                        environment through finishing since lab
West Bank – Centre
                                                            Type of                                                Cost
      District      JSCPD                     VC                                Project Description
                                                            Project                                               (US$)
44 Ramallah      West Ramallah   Tireh                     Individual Enhancing the performance of the local      4,858
                 (Nelein)                                             council through purchasing of furniture
45 Ramallah      West Ramallah   Midiya                    Individual Building wall around the school              6,955
                 (Nelein)
46 Ramallah      West Ramallah   Bodros                    Individual Provide garbage containers                   4,646
                 (Nelein)
47 Ramallah      West Ramallah   Biet Our Tihta            Individual Build a gymnasium at the kindergarten       14,730
                 (Nelein)



                                                           37
48 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Biet Our Fouqa             Individual Equipping of Bait Our Fuqa club              2,818
                (Nelein)
49 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Kharbatha Al-Mesbah        Individual Establishment of computer lab for youth     16,800
                (Nelein)
50 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Kharbatha Bani Hareth      Individual Rehabilitation of Kharbatha Bani             8,987
                (Nelein)                                              Hareth Club's hall
51 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Shebtin                    Individual Rehabilitation of roads through building     3,156
                (Nelein)                                              shoulders and retraining walls
52 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Deir Qiddis                Individual Rehabilitation of a children's garden        5,563
                (Nelein)
53 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Shiqbah                    Individual VC Rehabilitation                           14,251
                (Nelein)
54 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Safa                       Individual Equipping the VC                            12,160
                (Nelein)
55 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Qibya                      Individual Equipping the computer lab of the           19,630
                (Nelein)                                              school
56 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Der Abo-Meshael            Individual Improving the kindergarten through          10,625
                (Nelein)                                              purchasing of equipment
57 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Deir Qiddis, Kharbatha       Joint    Rehabilitation of the agricultural road      6,186
                (Nelein)        Bani Hareth                           for the farmers
58 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Shuqba, Shebtin, Bodros,     Joint    Building and finishing multi-purpose        190,604
                (Nelein)        Medya, Qibya                          hall for the villages
59 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Safa, Biet Our Tihta         Joint    Enhancing the school infrastructure         80,916
                (Nelein)                                              through providing computers and
                                                                      rehabilitation of the in front area
60 Ramallah     West Ramallah Tireh, Biet Our Fouqa          Joint    Enhancing the school infrastructure         25,608
                (Nelein)                                              though providing the school with
                                                                      computers
61 Ramallah  West Ramallah      Beit Sira, Kharbatha         Joint    Lighting the joint main street              65,682
             (Nelein)           Almisbah
62 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Ixxa                  Individual Rehabilitation of the village playground    4,283
63 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Sourik                Individual Development and rehabilitation of           12,786
                                                                      youth sport club
64 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Sourik, Beit Ixxa        Joint   Enhancing the performance of local          68,925
                                                                      councils through purchasing of bob-cat
65 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Doko, Beit Ijeza         Joint   Building youth center                       40,349
66 Jerusalem Northwest B        Beit Anan                  Individual Equipping Beit Enan Association             12,978
67 Jerusalem Northwest B        Qbeibeh                    Individual Enhancing the performance of the local       6,454
                                                                      council through purchasing of furniture
68 Jerusalem Northwest B        Emlahem,Beit Anan,            Joint   Enhancing the performance of local          69,970
                                Qbebeh                                councils through purchasing of bob-cat
West Bank – South
                                                            Type of                                                Cost
     District      JSCPD                      VC                                 Project Description
                                                            Project                                               (US$)
69 Hebron       Rural West of   Ramadeen, Freijat, Innab     Joint      Improve agriculture in the area through   45,583
                Dura            Kibeer                                  purchasing of tractor
70 Hebron       Rural West of   Ifqeqis, Khursa, Sorra,         Joint   Building and finishing center for         266,208
                Dura            Khirbet Salameh Wadi                    development and capacity building
                                Obeid, Hadab Fawwar,
                                Khillet Aqed, Wadi
                                Shajneh, Abu Asja Abu
                                Ghozlan
71 Hebron       Rural West of   Abu Organ, Raboud               Joint   Rehabilitate connecting road              12,936
                Dura



                                                           38
72 Hebron     Rural West of   Abu Al-Arqan              Individual Abu Al-Arqan school development           1,450
              Dura                                                 through purchasing of equipment
73 Hebron     Rural West of   Raboud                    Individual Provide a space for youth activities      4,053
              Dura                                                 through finishing hall
74 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Borj Wal Al-Beereh     Individual Rehabilitate and empower CBOs             7,581
              Dura                                                 through purchasing of equipment
75 Hebron     Rural West of   Sikeh-Tawwas              Individual Rehabilitation of public places through   2,606
              Dura                                                 purchasing of equipment
76 Hebron     Rural West of   Ramadeen                  Individual Development of local CBOs through         9,744
              Dura                                                 purchasing of furniture and equipment
77 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Freijat                Individual Finishing a multi-purpose youth           1,240
              Dura                                                 community center
78 Hebron     Rural West of   Innab Al-Kabeerah         Individual Rehabilitation of health center           1,110
              Dura
79 Hebron     Rural West of   Abu Al-Asja and Abu       Individual Maintenance of the electricity network    3,258
              Dura            Al-Ghozlan
80 Hebron     Rural West of   Hadab Al-Fawwar         Individual Rehabilitation and activation of the        6,341
              Dura                                               women and child center
81 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Marsam             Individual Enhance the health services in the          1,280
              Dura                                               village through rehabilitation of the
                                                                 health clinic
82 Hebron     Rural West of   Abdo Al-Alkatein and    Individual Enhance the educational environment         4,450
              Dura            Mreish                             through installation of umbrellas on the
                                                                 girl school
83 Hebron     Rural West of   Tramah, Deir Razeh, Wad Individual Purchasing of solid waste containers        4,620
              Dura            Shajnah, and Hafyer
                              Bitem
84 Hebron     Rural West of   Khursa                  Individual Equipping the youth center and the VC       17,421
              Dura
85 Hebron     Rural West of   Khirbet Salameh and       Individual Providing the VC with furniture           1,440
              Dura            Wadi Obeid
86 Hebron     Rural West of   Ifqeqis                   Individual Providing the VC with furniture           1,220
              Dura
87 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Rosh Foka            Individual Youth capacity building through           26,432
              Dura                                                 purchasing of sport tools
88 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Rosh Tahta           Individual Enhance the educational environment       10,000
              Dura                                                 through rehabilitation of class rooms
89 Hebron     Rural West of   Deir Al -Asal Al-Foka     Individual Women empowerment through                 5,063
              Dura                                                 providing furniture to the women center
90 Hebron     Rural West of   Deir Al-Asal Al-Tahta-    Individual Women empowerment through                 16,715
              Dura            Iskek                                providing furniture to the women center
91 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Koum, Al-Mroug, and    Individual Providing the VC with furniture           8,075
              Dura            Beit Makdoum
92 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Majd                   Individual Women Empowerment through                 5,084
              Dura                                                 purchasing furniture to the women
                                                                   center
93 Hebron    Rural West of    Sorrah                    Individual Purchasing of furniture and equipment     5,480
             Dura                                                  to the VC
94 Hebron    Rural West of    Khillet Aked Khillet      Individual Purchasing of furniture and equipment      671
             Dura             Wahsheh                              to the VC
95 Bethlehem Rural East       Beit Ta'mar               Individual VC development through purchasing of      5,904
                                                                   furniture and health development
                                                                   through rehabilitation of hall




                                                        39
96 Bethlehem Rural East           Al-Khas Wa No'man         Individual Development of a training hall in Al-       1,783
                                                                       Karmah Cultural Center through
                                                                       purchasing of equipment
97 Bethlehem Rural East           Al-Rashaydeh              Individual Development of an activity hall through     3,479
                                                                       purchasing of furniture
98 Bethlehem Rural East           Keesan                    Individual Development and rehabilitation of the       1,198
                                                                       village project committee through
                                                                       purchasing of furniture
99 Bethlehem Rural East           Dar Salah                 Individual Development of the public library and       9,569
                                                                       encourage reading through purchasing
                                                                       of equipment and books
100 Bethlehem Rural East          Minya                     Individual Improve the school conditions through       4,032
                                                                       adding class room
101   Bethlehem   Rural East      Hendaza and Brediaal      Individual Providing VC with furniture                11,367
102   Bethlehem   Rural East      Al-Shawarah               Individual Improving the girls school road             9,431
103   Bethlehem   Rural East      Khalayel Alloz            Individual Providing the VC with furniture's           1,500
104   Bethlehem   Rural East      Hindaza Breida'a,            Joint   Improve the quality of the JSC services    168,002
                                  Khalayel Ellouz, Minya,              through GIS system
                                  Dar Salah, Shawawreh,
                                  Al-Khas wa Noman,
                                  Keesan, Rashaydeh
105 Bethlehem Rural East          Jib Eddeeb, Beit Taamar        Joint   Rehabilitation of agricultural roads     26,198
Gaza
                                                             Type of                                               Cost
       District                 Neighborhood                                      Project Description
                                                             Project                                              (US$)
106 Gaza          Mawasi Rafah                              Individual Construction of fishing boats and          50,325
                                                                       provide it with fishing nets
107   Gaza        Sheikh Al-Eid                             Individual Installation of Desalination Plant         42,700
108   Gaza        Sheikh Al-Eid                             Individual Establishing kindergarten and play-area    55,985
109   Gaza        Kherbat Al-Adas                           Individual Construction of cultural center             75,360
110   Gaza        Qaa’Qurain                                Individual Drainage of rain water from street no.85   49,060
111   Gaza        Jorrt Allot                               Individual Paving internal roads                      143,295
112   Gaza        West Camp                                 Individual Rehabilitation of Al Shafa’i Club           93,510
113   Gaza        Mawasie Khanyounes, West Camp, Jorrt        Joint    Development of park and safe play          91,575
                  Allot, Qaa’Qurain, Alqarareh                         areas for children
114 Gaza          Al-Zanna                                  Individual Construction of kindergarten and safe      65,155
                                                                       play areas for children
115 Gaza          Almatahen                                 Individual Establishing cultural center                59,886
116 Gaza          Khanyounes                                Individual Establishing cultural center                86,090
117 Gaza          Jaffa Block                               Individual Digging well and installation of           113,250
                                                                       desalination plant
118   Gaza        Beir Al-Na’ja                             Individual Rehabilitation and pavement of roads       64,250
119   Gaza        Izba                                      Individual Rehabilitation and pavement of roads       95,080
120   Gaza        Saiafa                                    Individual Paving and rehabilitation of main road     39,915
121   Gaza        Ghboon                                    Individual Rehabilitation and pavement of roads       44,680
122   Gaza        Bora & Farata                             Individual Rehabilitation and pavement of roads       93,875
123   Gaza        Um El-Naser                               Individual Digging well and land reclamation          35,130




                                                            40
                                       Table A2.2: VNDP cycle 2 subprojects

West Bank – North
                                                           Type of                                                 Cost
      District      JSCPD                    VC                                 Project Description
                                                           Project                                                (US$)
 1   Tubas       Tubas          Ras Far’a, Wadi Far’a,      Joint      Purchasing and delivery of water tank     110,900
                                Tayaseer, Atouf, Thaghra,              and tubes
                                Salhab, Qashdeh
 2   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Azounatmeh, Beitameen,      Joint      Purchasing and delivering of electrical   90,000
                                Salman, Jaloud, Al-                    equipment
                                Ashqar, Rasattieh,
                                Rastireh, Dabaah, Wadi
                                Rasha, Al-Mdouar
 3   Qalqiliya   Qalqilya/ West Azounatmeh, Beitameen,      Joint      Purchasing and distribution of solid       9,000
                                Salman, Jaloud, Al-                    waste containers
                                Ashqar, Rasattieh,
                                Rastireh, Dabaah, Wadi
                                Rasha, Al-Mdouar
 4   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Al-Jarousheeh, Al-          Joint      Building and finishing comprehensive      108,000
                 Sharwiyeh      Masqoufeh, Nazleteisa,                 youth center
                                Nazlet Abu Al-Nar,
                                Nazlehgarbeeh,
                                Nazlehwousta,
                                Nazlehshrqeeh,
                                Akabamsida
 5   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Al-Jarousheeh, Al-          Joint      Improve safety on the main connecting     13,000
                 Sharwiyeh      Masqoufeh, Nazleteisa,                 road through building retiring walls
                                Nazlet Abu Al-Nar,
                                Nazlehgarbeeh,
                                Nazlehwousta,
                                Nazlehshrqeeh,
                                Akabamsida
 6   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Jaroushyeh                Individual   Buying photocopier for the village         2,718
                 Sharwiyeh                                             school
 7   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Maskoufa                  Individual   Providing the school with computer         620
                 Sharwiyeh
 8   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Aqqaba                    Individual Improving the school’s infrastructure        1,321
                 Sharwiyeh                                           through installation of an umbrella for
                                                                     the mixed school
 9   Tulkarem    Tulkarem/      Nazlet Abu Al-Nar         Individual Improve the village's kindergarten           1,188
                 Sharwiyeh                                           through installation of rails and gate
10 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Nazleh Gharbiyeh          Individual Purchasing of computers for the mixed        2,653
                 Sharwiyeh                                           school
11 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Nazleh Wosta              Individual Buying two computers for the school          1,307
                 Sharwiyeh
12 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Al-Nazleh Al-Sharqeeh     Individual Equipping the community by                   4,936
                 Sharwiyeh                                           purchasing of 100 chairs, two
                                                                     computers, one printer, 20 plastic tables
13 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Nazleteisa                Individual To rebuild the school fence and              7,500
                 Sharwiyeh                                           implement all needed works
                                                                     Establish umbrellas for students in front
                                                                     of classrooms
14 Tulkarem      Tulkarem/      Sida                      Individual Improve sports facilities of the village     9,220
                 Sharwiyeh                                           playground through building changing
                                                                     room and sanitary unit


                                                         41
15 Salfeet      Southern        Yasouf, Eskaka, Farkha,        Joint   Developing school facilities through      85,000
                Salfeet         Kherbetqees                            adding class rooms, rehabilitation of
                                                                       wall and sanitary unit
16 Salfeet      West Salfeet    Masha, Sarta, Rafat            Joint   Enhancement of agricultural works         98,711
                                                                       through purchasing excavator for land
                                                                       reclamation
17 Salfeet      West Salfeet    Masha, Sarta, Rafat            Joint   Purchasing ultrasound machine for Ali      9,000
                                                                       Alsartawee Health Center
18 Nablus       East Nablus     Salem, Azmout, Deir Al-        Joint   Building and finishing public park        290,553
                                Hatab, Beit Dajan,
                                Roujeeb, Kufor Qalil
19 Nablus       East Nablus     Beit Dajan                Individual Purchasing of music instruments for the     10,897
                                                                     youth center
20 Nablus       East Nablus     Deir Hatab                Individual Purchasing of 1 sound amplifier, 2 air       7,000
                                                                     conditioners, 1 lighting device, 1
                                                                     camera, one projector, 1 iron stand
21 Nablus       East Nablus     Roujeeb                   Individual Purchasing of 1 projector, curtains , 100   12,000
                                                                     chairs, 5 tables, 4 air conditioners
22 Nablus       East Nablus     Salem                     Individual Purchasing of 1 projector, 1computer, 1     15,426
                                                                     printer, curtains, sound amplifier, 100
                                                                     chairs, 8 tables, 4 air conditioners,
                                                                     painting the hall
23 Nablus       East Nablus     Azmout                    Individual Expanding the water network through          9,000
                                                                     adding 150 m to it
24 Nablus       East Nablus     Kufr Kallil               Individual Installation of umbrella and purchasing      7,540
                                                                     of two swings and games at the
                                                                     kindergarten
West Bank – Centre
                                                           Type of                                                Cost
     District      JSCPD                      VC                                Project Description
                                                           Project                                               (US$)
25 Ramallah     West Ramallah Tireh                       Individual Buying office equipment and electrical      2,520
                (Nelein)                                             appliances
26 Ramallah     West Ramallah Midiya                      Individual Purchasing of computer, table and chair,     3,980
                (Nelein)                                             laser color printer, director’s chair,
                                                                     spinning chair, visitors chairs, tables,
                                                                     fax, filing cabinet
27 Ramallah     West Ramallah Bodros                      Individual Buying office equipment and electrical       4,525
                (Nelein)                                             appliances
28 Ramallah     West Ramallah Biet Our Fouqa              Individual Buying office equipment and electrical       2,920
                (Nelein)                                             appliances

29 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Shebtin                   Individual Buying office equipment and electrical       2,616
                (Nelein)                                             appliances
30 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Deir Qiddis               Individual Purchasing of 8 computers                    5,600
                (Nelein)
31 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Shiqbah                   Individual Buying office equipment and electrical      12,945
                (Nelein)                                             appliances
32 Ramallah     West Ramallah   Qibya                     Individual Buying office equipment and electrical      14,745
                (Nelein)                                             appliances according to the budget and
                                                                     as detailed in the proposal

33 Ramallah     West Ramallah Kharbatha Bani Hareth       Individual Purchasing of 9 computers, 9 computer        8,720
                (Nelein)                                             tables, 9 chairs and 2 laser printers
34 Ramallah     West Ramallah Kharbatha, Bani Hareth,       Joint    Opening and paving agricultural roads       107,380
                (Nelein)      And Deer, Qedees


                                                          42
35 Ramallah     West Ramallah Tireh, Beit Our Fouqa             Joint   Rehabilitation of Al-Tireh and Biet Our    39,650
                (Nelein)                                                joint school through building of play
                                                                        ground
36 Ramallah     West Ramallah Safa, Biet Our Tihta              Joint   Rehabilitation and paving the              143,234
                (Nelein)                                                connecting road between the two
                                                                        villages
37 Ramallah  West Ramallah Qebia, Bodros, Medyia,               Joint   Lighting the connecting road between       216,467
             (Nelein)      Shuqba, Shepteen, Deer                       the 6 villages
                           Abu Meshaal
38 Ramallah West Ramallah Beit Sira, Kharbatha                  Joint Buying excavator with accessories for        120,492
             (Nelein)      Almisbah                                   agricultural purposes
39 Jerusalem Northwest A   Beit Sourik, Beit Ixxa            Joint    Building and finishing multi-purpose         12,786
                                                                      hall
40 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Sourik, Beit Ixxa       Joint    Building and finishing public garden         61,550
41 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Doko, Beit Ijeza        Joint    Purchasing and fixing street lamps in        23,750
                                                                      the main road
42 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Doko, Beit Ijeza        Joint    Purchasing meeting table, 10 chairs, 2        5,650
                                                                      computers, 2 printers, LCD, oven,
                                                                      refrigerator
43 Jerusalem Northwest A        Beit Doko                  Individual Buying 21 garbage containers                  4,830
44 Jerusalem Northwest B        Emlahem, Beit Anan,          Joint    Paving the connecting road between the       128,000
                                Qbebeh                                three villages
West Bank – South
                                                            Type of                                                 Cost
     District      JSCPD                   VC                                    Project Description
                                                            Project                                                (US$)
45 Hebron       Rural West of   Ramadeen, Freijat, Innab     Joint      Buying a land reclamation equipment        85,400
                Dura            Kibeer
46 Hebron       Rural West of   Ifqeqis, Khursa, Sorra,         Joint   Building and finishing multi-purpose       316,757
                Dura            Khirbet Salameh Wadi                    community center to serve marginalized
                                Obeid, Hadab Fawwar,                    groups for the villages
                                Khillet Aqed, Wadi
                                Shajneh, Abu Asja Abu
                                Ghozlan
47 Hebron       Rural West of   Abu Organ, Raboud               Joint   Rehabilitate connecting road through       15,000
                Dura                                                    Building road shoulders

48 Hebron       Rural West of   Abu Al-Arqan               Individual Buying 120 plastic chairs, and 60 small       1,100
                Dura                                                  plastic tables
49 Hebron       Rural West of   Raboud                     Individual Purchasing of 190 plastic chairs              1,720
                Dura
50 Hebron       Rural West of   Al-Borj Wal Al-Beereh      Individual Purchase of plastic chairs, educational       7,300
                Dura                                                  games for the kindergarten, medicine
                                                                      closet, 2 desks, 2 computers, 2 printers
                                                                      and 2 photocopiers
51 Hebron       Rural West of   Sikeh-Tawwas               Individual Purchase of computer and printer, office      2,800
                Dura                                                  table with its chairs, meeting table with
                                                                      its chairs, plastic chairs, filing cabinet
52 Hebron       Rural West of   Ramadeen                   Individual Purchase of LCD, computer, printer,           9,150
                Dura                                                  office table with 6 chairs, 4 filing
                                                                      cabinets, 25 meeting chairs, 60 plastic
                                                                      chairs, 5 small meetings tables, 1 big
                                                                      meeting table, 18 pairs of sports shoes
                                                                      for football, 15 football balls, filing
                                                                      cabinet, desk



                                                           43
53 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Freijat                Individual Finishing the community center – tiling,   1,100
              Dura                                                 cement bags, other needed material

54 Hebron     Rural West of   Innab Al-Kabeerah         Individual Buying one computer with a printer          900
              Dura
55 Hebron     Rural West of   Abu Al-Asja and Abu Al-   Individual Maintenance of the broken and              5,000
              Dura            Ghozlan                              damaged areas of the main road
56 Hebron     Rural West of   Hadab Al-Fawwar           Individual Providing the motherhood and child         5,500
              Dura                                                 center with furniture and office
                                                                   equipment
57 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Marsam               Individual Buying computers for the school            1,200
              Dura
58 Hebron     Rural West of   Abdo Al-Alkatein, Mreish Individual Buying of 7 computers and 2 printers        4,800
              Dura
59 Hebron     Rural West of   Tramah, Deir Razeh, Wad Individual Purchasing of 120 plastic chairs and 12      4,400
              Dura            Shajnah, Hafyer Bitem              plastic tables
60 Hebron     Rural West of   Khursa                  Individual Installation of 150 m2 of umbrellas and      10,000
              Dura                                               benches along the playground – 180 m

61 Hebron     Rural West of   Khirbet Salameh, Wadi     Individual Providing the women’s society with         1,100
              Dura            Obeid                                furniture and equipment, fax and plastic
                                                                   chairs
62 Hebron     Rural West of   Ifqeqis                   Individual Providing the community center with        1,100
              Dura                                                 furniture
63 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Rosh Foka            Individual Providing furniture for VC                 2,900
              Dura
64 Hebron     Rural West of   Beit Rosh Tahta         Individual Buying plastic chairs for meeting            1,100
              Dura                                               purposes
65 Hebron     Rural West of   Deir Al-Asal Al-foka    Individual Purchase of photocopier for the school,      5,500
              Dura                                               a counter, a wooden divider, and filing
                                                                 cabinet with drawers for the health
                                                                 clinic
66 Hebron     Rural West of   Deir Al-Asal Al-Tahta-  Individual Purchase of children’s chairs, tables,       2,400
              Dura            Iskek                              blackboard, educational toys, games,
                                                                 sand for the playground, and
                                                                 educational stationary for children
67 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Koum, Al-Mroug, Beit Individual Building fence for the school (300 m2)       10,000
              Dura            Makdoum
68 Hebron     Rural West of   Al-Majd                 Individual Purchase of 3 office tables with chairs,     5,500
              Dura                                               3 filing cabinets, meeting table and
                                                                 chairs, LCD, photocopier, plastic chairs
69 Hebron    Rural West of    Sorrah                  Individual Building 6 waiting stations                  6,500
             Dura
70 Hebron    Rural West of    Khillet Aked khillet      Individual Purchasing of one computer                  670
             Dura             Wahsheh
71 Bethlehem Rural East       Al-Rashaydeh             Individual Buying 20 chairs, 1 meting table, sound     4,000
                                                                  system
72 Bethlehem Rural East       Keesan                   Individual Purchasing of 2 computers                   1,400
73 Bethlehem Rural East       Minya                    Individual Buying 20 medium meetings chairs,           3,400
                                                                  swift photocopier-feeder, meeting table
74 Bethlehem Rural East       Hendazah, Bredaa,          Joint    Finishing and furnishing multi-purpose      77,250
                              Khalaeel El-Lawz                    hall
75 Bethlehem Rural Eas        Rashaideh, Menyeh, Kisan   Joint    Rehabilitation of the connecting road       34,500
                                                                  between the two villages



                                                        44
76 Bethlehem Rural East             Dar Salah, Shawawreh,          Joint   Rehabilitation and opening agricultural      122,600
                                    Al-Khas, Al-Noaman                     roads
77 Bethlehem Rural East             Jib Eddeeb, Beit Taamar        Joint   Building shoulders for the connecting        31,000
                                                                           road
Gaza
                                                               Type of                                                    Cost
       District                  Neighborhood                                        Project Description
                                                               Project                                                   (US$)
78   Gaza         Bora and Farata                             Individual   Rehabilitation of Al-Farata Road             115,337
79   Gaza         Izba                                        Individual   Rehabilitation and pavement of roads         114,666
80   Gaza         Jourit Al-Lout                              Individual   Rehabilitation and pavement of roads         219,204
81   Gaza         Beir Al-Na’ja                               Individual   Rehabilitation and pavement of Beir Al-      71,931
                                                                           Na’ja Main Road
82 Gaza           Al-Seiafa                                   Individual   Rehabilitation and pavement of Al-           44,021
                                                                           Seiafa Main Road
83 Gaza           Al-Shabora                                  Individual   Rehabilitation of the existing steel shed,   109,662
                                                                           construction of green areas and
                                                                           construction of a multi-purpose 1st floor
                                                                           over the kindergarten
84 Gaza           Kerbat Al-Adas                              Individual   Construction of a computer lab over the      96,884
                                                                           existing cultural center and furnishing it
85 Gaza           Mawasi Rafah                                Individual   Construction of a park on the beach          69,550
                                                                           including safe play areas
86 Gaza           Al-Zanna                                    Individual   Complete the construction of the             71,782
                                                                           kindergarten and furnishing it
87 Gaza           West Camp                                   Individual   Construction of a cultural center            133,080
88 Gaza           Mawasi Khan Younes                          Individual   Construction of an additional floor over     144,643
                                                                           the existing cultural center and
                                                                           furnishing the center
89 Gaza           Qaa’Al-Qurain                               Individual   Construction of multi-purpose hall,          67,572
                                                                           computers lab and furnishing
90 Gaza           Al-Matahen                                  Individual   Construction of safe play area for           64,649
                                                                           children and completing the
                                                                           construction of the cultural center
91 Gaza           Um Al-Nasser                                Individual   Construction of a water tank and             42,552
                                                                           irrigation main lines
92 Gaza           Al-Amal (Gaben)                             Individual   Construction of wastewater network            47,852
93 Gaza           Jaffa Block                                 Individual   Construction of cultural center              172,460
                                                                           including kindergarten



         Component 2: Capacity Building for Communities and LGUs

         2.        The project financed the following capacity-building activities:

                             Hiring Oversight Consultants in the West Bank.
                             Hiring Oversight Consultants in Gaza.
                             Stakeholder Learning and Knowledge Sharing.
                             Communications Campaign.
                             Project Support Group Formation West Bank.
                             Project Support Group Formation Gaza.




                                                              45
Component 3: Institutional Support for the Counterpart Institution

3.     The institutional support financed by the project was as follows:

             PMT Human Resource Development. Recruitment of the following
       consultant staff for the PMT, based in the West Bank:
              o        Financial Management Specialist.
              o        Procurement Specialist.
              o        Community Development Specialist.
              o        Administrative Assistant.
             Capacity Building for PMT and MOLG Staff.
             Training to the PMT on procurement and financial management.
             Specific training based on capacity profile.
             National CDD Policy Note.
             Awards for best CDD subprojects.
             Equipping the PMT and the MOLG District Offices:
              o        Purchase of IT, telecommunications, and office equipment.
              o        Purchase of office furniture (desks, chairs, etc.)
              o        Purchase of vehicle.
             Monitoring and Evaluation and Audits
              o        Technical audits for each project cycle.
              o        External audit of OC performance.
              o        Audit of project accounts.
              o        Project Evaluation – BIA for each cycle.
             Operational costs.

4.   The full composition of the PMT is listed here, with specification of the status of
PMT members:

             Civil servants:
              o       Overall project coordinator (West Bank).
              o       Three part-time district office engineers for subproject supervision
                      (West Bank North, Middle, and South).
              o       Project coordinator (Gaza).
              o       Two area managers for subproject supervision (Gaza).
              o       One area manager for procurement (Gaza).
              o       Financial manager (West Bank, only participated to first part of
                      project and was not replaced).
             Consultants:
              o       Environmental and Technical Engineer (West Bank). Initially
                      time-bound civil servant, kept on as consultant when contract
                      expired.
              o       Financial Management Specialist (West Bank).
              o       Procurement Specialist (West Bank).
              o       Community Development Specialist (West Bank).
              o       Administrative Assistant (West Bank).


                                           46
Project Preparatory Activities financed by the Post-Conflict Fund

5.    The following activities were financed by the PCF:

            Orientation workshop for heads and management of JSCPDs.
            Consultation workshops (4) for Northern, Center, and Southern
             communities in the West Bank and for Gaza.
            Operational Manual, including sections on procurement, financial
             management, M&E, environmental management and reporting.
            Environmental Monitoring Plan.
            Procurement Plan.
            Procurement Specialist to train the PMT staff.
            Financial Management Specialist to train the PMT staff.
            Computerization of financial management system.
            CDD study tour to Indonesia for the PMT coordinator and M&E specialist.
            Training in impact assessment (in Amman, two PMT members).
            Training in M&E (at the World Bank Institute, Vienna, two PMT
             members).
            Training in procurement.
            Development of terms of reference for OCs.
            Development of the VNDP website and email system.
            External auditor.
            Computers for the PMT.
            Consultants for the PMT to participate to preparation:
             o      Community Development Specialist.
             o      Financial Management Specialist.
             o      Procurement Specialist.
             o      Administrative Assistant.




                                         47
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Appraisal methodology
1.      No cost-benefit evaluation was carried out at appraisal. Given the demand-driven
nature of the subprojects financed under the VNDP, and hence the uncertainty in the
demand for the portfolio of subprojects to be proposed by the communities, the analysis
could not assess ex-ante the specific potential economic and welfare impacts of the
VNDP. The economic justification was based on review of World Bank experience and
research in CDD-type projects12, which shows that participatory approaches deliver cost-
efficient results compared to more traditional government programs. The underlying
reasons are better community oversight, contribution, and empowerment. In addition,
CDD-type projects also tend to increase access to and quality of social services,
especially to marginalized groups thereby also increasing utilization of basic services.

2.      Targeting of poor rural areas and economically and socially marginalized groups
was a primary focus for the VNDP, starting with the pre-selected target areas. The
underlying economic argument was that social rates of return increase when the levels of
income, social and human capital decreases. Pre-selection of target JSCPDs and LGUs in
rural West Bank and neighborhoods in Gaza was based on such criteria as representation
of all districts in the West Bank and presence of other planned or on-going similar CDD
operations, marginalization, vulnerability, and levels of service. In rare cases where the
selected communities were not necessarily the poorest or the most socially excluded in
absolute terms on a national scale, they were the poorest or most socially excluded in
relative terms, i.e., within their respective Districts.

3.      Sustainability considerations were also part of the economic evaluation at
appraisal. To ensure the sustainability of the VNDP initiative, it was deemed necessary to
find an efficient mix of private and public funds, by devising mechanisms early on to
transform the participatory VNDP approach into a generally accepted community-based
development and planning tool. It was expected that private resources would depend on
the availability and efficiency of cost-recovery mechanisms that have been embedded in
the VNDP’s project design. The financial or in-kind contribution of beneficiaries was set
at 10 percent of the VNDP’s subproject grant amount. Compliance with this requirement
would be monitored carefully.

ICR methodology
General considerations
4.     The above arguments and general considerations of efficiency remain valid and
provide a good indication of substantial efficiency of the VNDP. As described in the


12
  World Bank Operations Evaluation Department (2005): The Effectiveness of World Bank Support for
Community-Based and-Driven Development. Washington, DC: World Bank.
Rawlings, Laura; Sherburne-Benz, Lynne; Domelen, Julie Van (2001): Letting communities take the lead:
a cross-country evaluation of social fund performance. Washington, DC: World Bank.



                                                 48
main text of this ICR, the VNDP succeeded in reaching poor and marginalized groups,
and the technical audits and beneficiary survey have confirmed the quality of the
delivered services as well as their utilization. The participatory VNDP approach has
become a generally accepted community-based development and planning tool, and is
being pursued by the PA on own funds, with preparation of a follow-up operation
launched by the World Bank, to be financed by the TFGWB and which aims to leverage
additional funding. This testifies to the sustainability of the VNDP approach. The
monitoring of community contributions was effective, and overall community
contributions were far beyond the expected 10 percent, thus establishing the principle of
private funding as an efficient cost-recovery mechanism and indication that real needs are
being met by the financed subprojects, based on the willingness to contribute to the
services.

Cost-benefit analysis
5.     For the ICR, the actual cost of each subproject is known, and based on the
methodology described below a cost-benefit analysis was carried out on Component 1
investments, which represent 74 percent of project cost. Since most of the subprojects
financed by the VNDP were not income generating, economic benefits have been
estimated as follows:

          Benefits of public buildings and facilities and construction equipment are
           quantified by savings in renting cost. Without the VNDP subprojects, clients
           would rent such facilities and equipment.
          Benefits of water projects are quantified by the value of additional water
           provided to clients.
          Benefits of roads are quantified by the timer savings to users, and savings in
           vehicle maintenance cost.

6.      The analysis presents ERR and NPV by subproject type. No overall ERR can be
calculated due to the diverse nature of the investments.

Data sources and data use
7.     The analysis relied on multiple data sources which were triangulated to get the
most precise estimate of cost and benefits:

          A total of 216 subproject proposals were reviewed to extract some indicators
           used in the analysis such as subproject’s cost, number of beneficiaries,
           operating cost, benefits, revenues, etc.
          Two focus groups were held with VCs on September 26 and 28, 2013 – one in
           Ramallah area, and the other in Nablus (participants came from Salfit, Nablus
           and Tubas JSCDP). A total of 30 VCs participated.
          Phone interviews were conducted with 20 subprojects. The purpose of the
           focus groups and the interviews was to collect information about the VNDP
           project mechanisms, selection, implementation, operational issues, obstacles,
           and lessons learned.


                                           49
          Phone interviews were conducted with 11 contractors who implemented
           subprojects. The purpose was to collect information about wages, gender,
           employment, and local content of purchased inputs.

Discounting
8.      A discount rate of 5 percent is used in the economic analysis. Though higher rates
are used by the Bank (about 10 percent in the Middle East and North Africa Region) and
other developing countries, the 5 percent is deemed an appropriate rate for the WBG,
since the current long-term borrowing rate of public loans is about 4 percent, projected
inflation rate is quite low (within the range of 2 percent). Other donor institutions, mainly
the German Development Bank (KFW) also use a 5 percent discount rate. A sensitivity
analysis is done to assess the impact of using a 10 percent discount rate.

Cost adjustments
9.      Financial cost of the component 1 of the VNDP added up to US$7 million. This
figure is adjusted in the following ways to estimate the economic cost:

          Value-added tax (VAT): 15 percent of the financial cost is deducted since
           VAT is a transfer from the project to the government budget.
          Community contributions are added to the financial cost to reflect the actual
           full subproject cost.
          Costs of Components 2 and 3 of the VNDP were not added to the economic
           cost of component one. Even though component one projects would not be
           implemented without such cost, the capacity building benefits of Components
           2 and 3 will spread to other activities of the MOLG, VCs, and other
           stakeholders (CBOs, support groups, etc.).
          Investment cost is assumed to be equally distributed among three years (2010,
           2011, and 2012). This was done since many subprojects overlapped in terms
           of time horizon.

Reclassification of the VNDP subprojects and their investment cost
10.    To facilitate the economic analysis, the VNDP projects were regrouped into 7
categories which are:

          Public buildings
          Roads
          Equipment
          Furnishing of facilities
          Water
          Solid waste
          Street lighting

11.    Investment cost of subprojects funded through the VNDP was about US$7.8
million. The World Bank contributed about 79 percent of these cost. The majority of


                                             50
funding went to public buildings (51 percent) followed by roads (21 percent) – see
Table A3.1.

       Table A3.1: Total investment cost of projects funded through the VNDP – US$.

    Sector             World Bank      Community          Total       Community contribution
                       contribution    contribution    Investment        as share of total
                                                                            investment
    Roads                  1,505,917         143,926      1,649,843             9%
    Street Lighting           98,197          38,036        136,233            28%
    Water                    466,212         142,654        608,866            23%
    Equipment                710,499         115,858        826,357            14%
    Solid waste               14,128           5,355         19,483            27%
    Public buildings       2,845,943       1,139,347      3,985,290            29%
    Furnishing               579,267          36,103        615,370             6%
    Total                  6,220,163       1,621,279      7,841,442            21%
    Source: Project Management Team.


Cost-benefit analysis of public buildings and facilities
12.      The VNDP funded 50 subprojects within the category of public buildings and
facilities. Projects include:

            Rehabilitation of schools, health and sanitation facilities, women and
             children’s centers, play grounds and youth and sports clubs.
            Buildings and facilities: JSCPDs buildings, class rooms and labs, parks,
             playgrounds, multipurpose halls, and cultural and youth centers.

Cost
13.     The total cost of buildings and rehabilitation projects was about US$3.9 million
including VAT (3.3 million excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 71 percent,
and the beneficiary communities provided 29 percent. Annual maintenance and operating
cost for each project were obtained from project documents. For the JSCPD buildings and
classrooms, the analysis incorporated 2 percent of the investment cost as operating and
maintenance cost.

Benefits
14.    Without the public buildings provided by the VNDP funded projects,
beneficiaries would either:

               not get the service,
               get a poor and low quality service, or
               have to travel to other locations to get the service.

15.     To facilitate the economic analysis, the building subprojects were regrouped into
the six categories; the assumptions used to quantify benefits are presented in Table A3.2.

                                                51
                             Table A3.2: Quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits
                                of building projects funded through the VNDP

Category         Number Investment Number of Annual Benefits included in Assumptions to                      Other non-
                            cost      beneficiaries O&M   the economic   quantify benefits                  quantifiable
                        (US$ million)                cost   analysis                                        benefits not
                                                    (US$)                                                    included in
                                                                                                               analysis
Cultural              21         2.138       119,736    43,850 Savings in time and US$15 annual          Increased social
centers and                                                    travel cost to get the rent per square    activities,
clubs                                                          service from other     meter, US$1 time networking, better
                                                               locations, rent of     and travel savings health, etc.
                                                               facilities             per user, US$600
                                                                                      construction cost
                                                                                      per square meter
Rehabilitation         4        0.0447          2,584      223                                           Environmental
of health                                                                                                protection and
facilities                                                                                               savings in health
                                                                                                         expenses
JSC buildings          2           0.23       13,000    4,600* Rent savings           US$15 annual       Better services to
                                                                                      rent per square    the community
                                                                                      meter, US$600
                                                                                      construction cost
                                                                                      per square meter
Parks and             10         0.635       237,868    84,408 Savings in travel      US$1 time and      More social
play                                                           cost to get the        travel savings per activities,
grounds                                                        service from other     user               networking, better
                                                               locations                                 education and
                                                                                                         health for children
Adding class           3         0.172          4,958   3,440* Rent savings           US$15 annual       Enrolment,
rooms                                                                                 rent per square    education quality,
                                                                                      meter, US$600      reduction of
                                                                                      construction cost distance to school,
                                                                                      per square meter. new grades
                                                                                                         opening up.
Others               10           0.09        44,085       450                                           Better services,
(fences,                                                                                                 less injuries, etc.
waiting
stations, etc.)
         *Annual maintenance cost estimated at 2 percent of investment cost.

        Economic cost-benefit of buildings
        16.    Table A3.3 shows the benefits and cost streams of public buildings implemented
        by the VNDP. The estimated NPV of benefits is about US$2.89 million at 5 percent
        discount rate and the ERR is 13 percent. These measures show that the VNDP’s
        investments in public buildings were economically viable. NPV at a discount rate of 10
        percent drops to US$0.73 million, which is still economically viable.




                                                            52
                     Table A3.3: Cash flow of the public building subprojects
                            funded through the VNDP (US$ million)

       Year            Investment           O&M cost               Benefits            Net benefits
       2010                    1.100              0.030                    0.144                 -0.99
       2011                      1.100                 0.065                0.296                 -0.87
       2012                      1.100                 0.096                0.446                 -0.75
       2013                      0.000                 0.096                0.456                  0.36
       2014                      0.000                 0.096                0.466                  0.37
       2015                      0.000                 0.096                0.477                  0.38
       2016                      0.000                 0.096                0.488                  0.39
       ---                          ---                    ---                 ---                   ---
       2032                      0.000                 0.096                0.703                  0.61
       2033                      0.000                 0.096                0.720                  0.62
       2034                      0.000                 0.096                0.737                  0.64


Cost-benefit analysis of roads construction and rehabilitation
17.      The VNDP funded 29 subprojects within the category of roads. Those include:

                 Rehabilitation of existing roads.
                 Expansion of existing roads.
                 New roads.

Cost
18.     The total cost of roads construction and rehabilitation was about US$1.65 million
including (US$1.4 million excluding VAT) of which the VNDP funded 87 percent, and
the targeted communities contributed 13 percent. Annual maintenance cost is assumed to
be 3 percent of the investment cost as indicated by local engineering offices.

Benefits
19.    Benefits of roads are measured by (a) time savings, and (b) reduced vehicle
maintenance cost.

20.     Based on a World Bank report13, it was estimated that time saved as a result of a
new or rehabilitated streets is about 2.5 minutes per day per user. It is assumed also that a
beneficiary will use the road 150 times a year, and the number of beneficiaries will grew
by a rate similar to the current population growth rate in the West Bank (2.6 percent). The
monetary value of time saved is assumed to equal US$0.28 per hour.14


13
   ICR –EMSRP-II. West Bank and Gaza, Sustainable Development Department, Middle East and North
Africa Region, 2011.
14
   This rate of US$0.28 per hour took into consideration the fact that labor force participation is 43 percent,
unemployment is about 24 percent, and hourly wage rate of US$2.5.



                                                      53
        21.      As for saving in vehicles maintenance cost, it is assumed to be about US$3.5 per
        year per vehicle.15 The number of beneficiary vehicles is estimated on the assumption
        that ratio of automobiles to citizens is 1:19 (based on the fact the population size is about
        4.2 million, and a total of 223,000 vehicles were registered in 2012 in the WBG).

        Economic benefit-cost of roads
        22.    Table A3.4 shows the benefits and cost streams of roads implemented by the
        VNDP. The estimated NPV of benefits is about US$1.6 million at 5 percent discount rate
        and the implied ERR is 14 percent. These measures show that the VNDP’s investments in
        roads were economically feasible. ENVP at 10 percent drops to US$0.47 million.

                   Table A3.4: Cash flow of the roads projects funded through the VNDP

Year     Cost Number of Annual time Value of Number of Savings in Total savings Maintenance         Net
        (US$) beneficiaries savings in time saved vehicles maintenance (time and        cost      benefits
                             minutes     per year             (US$)      maintenance,  (US$)       (US$)
                                          (US$)                             US$)
2010   550,000      40,393 13,026,743       61,226    2,126       7,441        68,667     16,500 -488,774
2011   550,000      81,836 26,392,180      124,043    4,307      15,075       139,118     33,000 -425,957
2012   550,000    124,357 40,105,119       188,494    6,545      22,908       211,402     49,500 -361,506
2013         0    127,590 41,147,853       193,395    6,715      23,503       216,898     47,430 193,395
2014         0    130,908 42,217,697       198,423    6,890      24,115       222,538     47,430 198,423
2015         0    134,311 43,315,357       203,582    7,069      24,742       228,324     47,430 203,582
2016         0    137,803 44,441,556       208,875    7,253      25,385       234,260     47,430 208,875
---         ---         ---          ---        ---       ---        ---           ---        ---        ---
2032         0    207,786 67,011,144       314,952   10,936      38,276       353,229     47,430 314,952
2033         0    213,189 68,753,433       323,141   11,220      39,272       362,413     47,430 323,141
2034         0    218,732 70,541,023       331,543   11,512      40,293       371,836     47,430 331,543



        Cost-benefit analysis of equipment
        23.       The VNDP funded the purchase of 13 pieces of equipment including excavators,
        lifts, and bob-cats.

        Cost
        24.    The total cost of equipment bought under the VNDP was about US$0.83 million
        including VAT (about US$0.7 million excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 86
        percent, and the beneficiary communities provided 14 percent. Operating cost vary from
        one equipment to another.




        15
          ICR –EMSRP-II. West Bank and Gaza, Sustainable Development Department, Middle East and North
        Africa Region, 2011.



                                                     54
Benefits
25.     Without the equipment provided by the VNDP, service providers would rent such
equipment. So the monetary befit would be savings in rent fees that the council would
pay if the VNDP did not fund such equipment.

26.    Based on the focus groups and field survey, the average saved rent (after
considering all operating and maintenance cost of the equipment) is about US$90 per day,
and a 200 working days is the usual number of effective usage days of the equipment.16
Benefits stream will extend to 10 years.

Economic cost-benefit
27.    Table A3.5 shows the benefits and cost streams of equipment funded by the
VNDP. The estimated NPV of benefits is about US$1.13 million at 5 percent discount
rate and the implied ERR is 32 percent. These measures show that the VNDP’s
investments in equipment were economically feasible. ENVP at 10 percent discount rate
drops to US$0.68 million, and drops to US$0.25 million if rent savings dropped to
US$50 per day instead of US$90, but this is still economically feasible.

      Table A3.5: Cash flow of the equipment funded through the VNDP (US$ million).

                    Year           Investment        Rent saved        Net benefits
                    2010                  0.234             0.078              -0.16
                    2011                  0.234             0.156              -0.08
                    2012                  0.234             0.234               0.00
                    2013                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    2014                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    2015                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    2016                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    ---                      ---               ---                ---
                    2020                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    2021                  0.000             0.234               0.23
                    2022                  0.000             0.234               0.23

Cost-benefit analysis of water subprojects
28.    The VNDP funded 9 water subprojects including purchase of a poster pump,
connecting a school to the water network, expanding the water network, rehabilitation of
water network and small-scale desalination plants, digging of a well and installation of a
small-scale desalination unit, and construction of a water tank and irrigation main lines.




16
  Recognizing that rent savings vary from one type of equipment to another and from one location to
another. For the purpose of the economic analysis we used an average of US$90 per day.



                                                   55
Cost
29.     The total cost of water projects was about US$0.6 million including VAT
(US$0.51 million excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 76 percent, and the
beneficiary communities provided 24 percent. Annual operating and maintenance cost of
the 9 subprojects is about US$75,000.

Benefits
30.     Without the water provided by the VNDP-funded projects, beneficiaries would
not get expensive drinking water from private tankers, or would get smaller quantities or
low quality water. Water benefits were quantified in terms of price per cubic meters
charged to end users. Based on the interviews with the 9 water subprojects funded by the
VNDP, the additional amount of water reached 170,000 cubic meters per year. Average
selling price is US$1.143 per cubic meter, thus the annual value of additional water
provided by the 9 subprojects is about US$193,000.

31.    The impact of getting enough clean water is a basic human need, with its long
term impact on health, productivity, and well-being. Also, beneficiary farmers would
increase their production and productivity.

Economic cost-benefit
32.     Table A3.6 shows the benefits and cost streams of water subprojects funded by
the VNDP. The estimated NPV of benefits is about US$0.53million at 5 percent discount
rate and the implied ERR is 28 percent. These measures show that the VNDP’s
investments in water subprojects were economically feasible. NVP at 10 percent discount
rate drops to US$0.3 million, which is still economically feasible.

Table A3.6: Cash flow of the water subprojects funded through the VNDP (Million US$)

Year   Investment     Operating     Additional water     Price charges   Value of        Net
                        cost        provided by the     per cubic meter additional     benefits
                                        VNDP -                            water
                                     thousand cubic
                                         meters
2010         0.170         0.025                    57            1.143       0.064        -0.13
2011         0.170         0.050                  113             1.143       0.129        -0.09
2012         0.170         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193        -0.05
2013         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
2014         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
2015         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
2016         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
---             ---           ---                   ---              ---         ---          ---
2025         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
2026         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12
2027         0.000         0.075                  170             1.143       0.193         0.12




                                               56
Cost-effectiveness of furnishing of facilities
33.     The VNDP funded a total of 99 subprojects by providing the needed furniture.
Such furniture includes office furniture and tools (computers, printers, phones, etc.),
chairs, curtains, kindergarten tools, etc. Furnished facilities include schools, health
centers, kindergartens, youth centers, etc.

Cost
34.    Furnishing subprojects cost US$0.6 million including VAT (US$0.5 million
excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 94 percent, and the beneficiary
communities provided 6 percent.17

Benefits
35.     Without the furniture provided by the VNDP, some of the beneficiary facilities
would not function at all, or function improperly. Benefits are not quantifiable, but the
positive impact of such furniture on beneficiaries extend to include more and better
quality services including education and health, higher productivity, and more efficient
provision of public services.

Cost-effectiveness
36.    The total number of direct beneficiaries of the furnishing of facilities is about
85,000. The average economic cost per beneficiary is about US$5.9. Keeping in mind
those benefits of provided furniture will extend to three years or more, it can be
concluded that such cost per beneficiary is quite acceptable and efficient.

Cost-effectiveness of street lighting
37.   The VNDP funded 6 street lighting subprojects and maintained an electric
network.

Cost
38.    The total cost of street lighting subprojects was about US$0.136 million including
VAT (US$0.12 million excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 72 percent, and
the beneficiary communities provided 28 percent.




17
  The categorization of subprojects for the economic analysis means that some categories of subprojects
appear to have less than 10 percent community contribution, although this is not the case. Subproject
proposals were divided to three contracts (constriction, furniture, and equipment) and the community
contribution was provided for the whole proposal as cash or in kind (land, technical drawings, construction
supervision, etc.). As an example, for the community center projects in Gaza, the Hebron community
centers and the joint projects in Nablus, all the community contribution was in kind and there were some
contracts classified under the furniture category with zero community contribution.



                                                    57
Benefits
39.     Without the lighting provided by the VNDP-funded subprojects, some
beneficiaries would consider traveling at night as unsafe, especially for women, and also
in areas close to Israeli settlements, and automobiles accidents might increase. Thus,
benefits of streets lighting would include cost savings from reduced number of accidents,
more interaction with other individuals especially among different communities, and
potential increase in economic activities of some beneficiaries by extending their work
time.

Cost-effectiveness
40.    The total number of direct beneficiaries of the street lighting subprojects is about
19,000. The average economic cost per beneficiary is about US$6.3. Keeping in mind
that benefits of street lighting subprojects will extend to about 15 years (assuming that
lamps will be replaced); this implies that yearly economic cost is about US$0.42. Thus
such cost per beneficiary is quite acceptable and efficient.

Cost-effectiveness of solid waste subprojects
41.    The VNDP funded 7 solid waste subprojects through the purchase of solid waste
containers.

Cost
42.    The total cost of solid waste subprojects was about US$0.019 US$ including VAT
(US$0.016 million excluding VAT), of which the VNDP provided 90 percent, and the
beneficiary communities provided 10 percent.

Benefits
43.     Without the solid waste containers provided by the VNDP-funded subprojects,
solid waste would not be collected or improperly collected. The direct benefit of
providing containers consists in better collection of solid waste, which in turn has
positive impact on health, and protects the environment.

Cost-effectiveness
44.    The total number of direct beneficiaries of the solid waste and drainage
subprojects is about 25,000. The average economic cost per beneficiary is about US$0.64.
Keeping in mind that benefits of solid waste subprojects will continue for about 5 years,
this implies that yearly economic cost is about US$0.13. This is a quite small investment
to provide access to solid waste management to a beneficiary. Thus such cost per
beneficiary is quite acceptable and efficient.

Additional benefits
Attracting additional donor funding



                                            58
45.     Targeted communities managed to raise additional funding by about US$33
million. The implementation of the VNDP helped these communities to raise funding
from other donors in many ways: the needs assessment exercise and the preparation of
strategic plans for each community made it easier to communicate with donors, provided
signals of participatory planning, wide community involvement, seriousness, and
readiness to implement more development projects. Also, the VNDP reduced the
perceived risk and uncertainty by donors to some locations, especially those located in or
near Area C, and close to settlements. After the VNDP, such perceived risk and
uncertainty of financing activities in these areas was reduced, thus injecting more funding.

Promoting the culture of networking though joint subprojects, participatory approach,
and community involvement
46.     The mechanisms of the VNDP in terms of focusing on joint subprojects have
encouraged councils to communicate with each other, planning jointly, and teaming up to
implement subprojects. Such mechanism improves their effectiveness in terms of
resource utilization, networking with donors and public decision-making. Also, the
VNDP mobilized CBOs and support groups and involved them directly in the process of
needs assessment, project selection, monitoring, and follow up. Such processes created
and reinforced their capacity to better engage in public dialogue and coordination with
others.

Raising awareness of the importance of community contribution to funding projects
instead of full reliance on donors
47.     The VNDP managed to convince VCs and beneficiary communities to contribute
to the cost of subprojects. The actual contributions were higher than the level foreseen
and required by the VNDP. Indeed, the VC representatives who participated in the focus
group discussions requested that such contribution should be increased, as it increases
community ownership and hence fosters the probability of subprojects’ success,
maintenance, and utilization.

Employment generation
Benefits
48.     Though job creation was not a major goal of the VNDP, positive spillover
benefits resulted in terms of job creation which is of high importance given the prevailing
levels of unemployment (about 24 percent) in the WBG. The measurement of benefits
focuses on the number of person-days of work created under component one of the
VNDP.

Assumptions
49.     The percentage of wage bills in each activity and average daily wages were
obtained from contractors (see Table A3.7). Most of the contractors paid wages ranging
from US$30 to US$35 per day. An average of US$30 is used in the analysis. Only direct
additional man working days were estimated as a result of the VNDP. Indirect jobs could
be created through complementary activities (such as manufacturing and transportation of


                                            59
furniture, maintenance services, etc.). Also, some newly erected buildings and facilities
(such as schools, parks) created new permanent jobs.
Results
50.     Based on the above assumptions, the estimated number of direct person-days of
work generated by the VNDP projects mounted to about 58,000 days, corresponding to
US$1.75 million paid as wages. Most of the created jobs were for men. This is a normal
result given the nature of subprojects – mostly infrastructure construction, which is male
dominated.

        Table A3.7: Estimated direct person-days of work generated by the VNDP (US$)
Sector                           Total       Share of wage bill out    Wage bills     Equivalent person
                              Investment      of the project cost*                      working days
Roads                           1,649,843                      20%         329,969               10,999
Street Lighting                   136,233                      10%          13,623                  454
Water & Network Projects          608,866                      10%          60,887                2,030
Equipment                         826,357                      15%         123,954                4,132
Public buildings                3,985,290                      30%       1,195,587               39,853
Furnishing                        615,370                        5%         30,769                1,026
Total                          7,821,959                                 1,754,788                58,493
*Share of wage bill out of the subproject cost is estimated based on information collected from a sample
of contractors who implemented the VNDP subprojects.

Lessons learned from the economic analysis
51.   The following lessons learned were presented in the economic analysis report and
complement the lessons learned presented in the main text.

        Participants in the focus groups pointed out the usefulness of the preparation
         process to form the PSGs, needs assessments, strategic planning, subproject
         selection, and capacity building. On the other hand they also pointed out the need
         to optimize these processes to save time and resources.
        The focus group participants found that in some cases, the benefits of joint
         subprojects were not fairly distributed thus making some communities resist the
         VNDP. This contributed to the criticism of some VCs by their constituencies.
        Imposing a minimum budget on individual subprojects could reduce transaction
         cost. The VNDP did not impose a minimum budget on subprojects, which went
         through the same selection and implementation process thus incurring high
         transaction cost.
        Reconsider criteria for fund allocations among target communities. The VNDP
         used the number of inhabitants in each community as the base for allocating funds
         although the level and urgency of needs vary among communities. It was
         recommended that these be taken into consideration when allocating funds among
         communities.
        Develop the ability to address coverage of complementary infrastructure services
         in subprojects, which is a general shortcoming in the WBG. In some cases, the
         VNDP funded roads without funding other complementary infrastructure services

                                                   60
         for such electricity, water, telephone networks. Such roads were subjected to
         further work after being implemented thus requiring additional resources.
        Assuring realistic operational plans. Even though the VNDP required an O&M
         plan before funding a subproject, some of these plans were not realistic enough to
         warrant an effective utilization of subprojects. There have been considerable
         improvements in the simplicity, realism, and quality of operations and
         maintenance plan in cycle 2 compared to cycle 1, however, this is an area that still
         requires a lot of attention.18
        Develop a comprehensive database of all activities including actual investment
         cost, operating cost, number of beneficiaries, community contributions, gender
         issues, forms of benefits, locations, etc. Such database would facilitate a more
         effective M&E of interventions and also underpin an investment planning process
         that is more focused on service levels rather than infrastructure. Such a database
         exists for municipalities, maintained by the MDLF, and could be replicated to the
         village level.




18
 This is not only at the VC-level but is also an area for improvement under MDP, which deals with
municipalities. An O&M manual is being piloted now with municipalities under MDP-2.



                                                  61
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                          Title               Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Lina Abdallah            Urban Specialist                     MNSSU Operations, M&E
Husam Abu Dagga          Lead Operations Officer              MNC03 CDD
Christine F. Allan       Operations Officer                   SARDE Operations, costing
Fifi Z. Antar            Program Assistant                    MNCGZ Team support
                         Lead Financial Management                   Financial
Siaka Bakayoko                                                AFTMW
                         Specialist                                  Management
Gregorio Bettiza         E T Consultant                       MNSSD Youth Inclusion
Meskerem Brhane          Senior Urban Specialist               EASIN TTL
Ahmed Merzouk            Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
                                                                     Social
Colin S. Scott           Lead Specialist                      OPSOR
                                                                     Development
Huong-Giang Lucie Tran   Consultant                           AFTN2 Rural Development
                                                                     Social
Nader Said               Consultant                           MNSSD
                                                                     Development
                                                                     Financial
Suhair M. Saah           Consultant                           MNAFM
                                                                     Management
                                                                     Infrastructure/
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein      Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist MNSWA Environmental
                                                                     Safeguards
Akram El-Shorbagi        Senior Financial management          MNAFM Financial
                         Specialist                                  Management
Adel Odeh                Operations Analyst                   MNCGZ Financial Analysis
Aitemad Muhanna          Consultant                           MNSSU Social
                                                                     Development
Supervision/ICR
Meskerem Brhane          Senior. Urban Specialist           EASIN TTL
Soraya Goga              Lead Urban Specialist              ECSUW TTL
                                                                  Financial
Nadi Mashni              Financial Management Specialist    MNAFM
                                                                  Management
Basheer Jaber            Procurement Specialist             MNAPR Procurement
                                                                  Social
John Victor Bottini      Consultant                         EASNS
                                                                  Development/CDD
                                                                  Financial
Samir Sahhar             Consultant                         MNAFM
                                                                  Management
                                                                  Urban
Björn Philipp            Senior Urban Specialist            MNSSU Development/Gove
                                                                  rnance
Noriko Oe                Municipal Finance/CDD Specialist   MNSSU CDD
Afaf Khalil Abbasi       Procurement Specialist             MNAPC Procurement
Lina Abdallah            Urban Specialist                   MNSSU TTL, ICR



                                           62
Fifi Z. Antar             Program Assistant                    MNCGZ Team Support
                                                                     Infrastructure/
Zeyad Abu-Hassanein       Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist MNSWA Environmental
                                                                     Safeguards
Lina Fathallah Rajoub     Procurement Specialist               MNAPC Procurement
Khalida Al-Qutob          Program Assistant                    MNCGZ Team Support
Iyad Rammal               Senior Infrastructure Specialist     MNSSU Infrastructure
Ray Salvatore Jennings    Consultant                           MNSSU CDD/Governance
                                                                     Financial
Majd Laisoon              Consultant                           MNAFM
                                                                     Management
Ahmed Merzouk             Senior Procurement Specialist        SARPS Procurement
Sana Mahmoud Mubarak      Consultant                           MNAPC Procurement
Adel Fahed J. Odeh        Operations Analyst                   MNCGZ Disbursement
                                                                     Financial
Suhair M. Saah            Consultant                           MNAFM
                                                                     Management
Hana Salah                Consultant                           MNSSU Social Safeguards
                                                                     Social
Sabine Beddies            Senior Social Development Specialist MNSSU
                                                                     Development
Lina Tutunji              Procurement Specialist               MNAPC Procurement
Mario Zelaya              Consultant                           MNSSU Engineering
Christian Eghoff          Consultant                           MNSSU ICR Author

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                             11                    48.56
  FY08                                             68                   204.33
                           Total:                  79                   252.89
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                           1                        4.03
  FY09                                          16                       40.93
  FY10                                          18                       73.38
  FY11                                          34                      128.46
  FY12                                          28                      111.47
  FY13                                          24                       71.44
  FY14                                           8                       48.63
                           Total:              209                      731.23




                                              63
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Objective

1.      BIAs were carried out twice during the project, at the end of each cycle. The aims
of the assessments were to:

        Assess the mobilization of the VNDP project communities and the formulation
         and certification of representative project support groups (PSGs).
        Assess the impact of the mobilization process and the CDD approach on
         beneficiaries.
        Assess the impact of the implementation of the subprojects on gender,
         vulnerability and social exclusions.
        Assess the role of new social forms and community-based organizations in the
         inclusion of marginalized groups (such as youth and women).
        Review social safeguard issues and develop a checklist for determining social
         soundness to minimize social exclusion effects.

First BIA – after cycle 1

Methodology

2.      The consultant utilized a participatory multi-disciplinary methodological
approach that ensured the generation of a community audit of the VNDP.
Representativeness of respondents was guaranteed by using the following variables in the
selection process:

        Targeted districts and JSCPDs.
        Geographic distribution within each JSCPD.
        Type of LGU (VC).
        Project /intervention type.
        Individual/joint project.

3.     Field work was implemented between November 22 and December 10 – 2011 on
a random-representative sample of 40 communities (29 in the West Bank and 11 in Gaza)
out of 109 in the WBG. The final report was delivered in April 2012. Quantitative data
was gathered via questionnaire from direct beneficiaries (LGUs/JSCs), and indirect
beneficiaries (community members who participated in the project activities). 19 The
survey of direct beneficiaries targeted officials of JSC/JPSG/VC/PSG members from all
40 villages/ neighborhoods. The sample size was 200 (4-5 members per
community/neighborhood). The survey of indirect beneficiaries targeted members of


19
  Attention is drawn to the different categorization of beneficiaries compared to the main report (section
1.4), which retains the beneficiaries of subprojects as the main beneficiaries.



                                                     64
youth and women groups and community beneficiaries involved in the mobilization and
project activities. They were selected from all 40 villages/neighborhoods, for a total
sample of 400 beneficiaries. A specialized questionnaire was designed for each group.
The two questionnaires investigated the main themes and a number of similar questions
were included to allow for a comparative analysis.

4.      The questionnaires were complemented by twenty key informant interviews
carried out with OC/JSC members, the MOLG (PMT offices in the West Bank and Gaza
as well as District Offices) and the VNDP officials, and other stakeholders (notably OCs,
local mobilizers, JSCs, volunteers, and PSG members in the WBG). Special guidelines
were developed for the in-depth interviews.

5.      Finally six focus groups were carried out with PSG members, YWVs, JSC/VC
officials, women, youth, and PSG members/YWVs, involving 64 beneficiaries in total.
The focus groups were facilitated and documented by expert researchers. The researchers
used special guidelines to enrich the discussions.

A note on methodology

6.      The methodology was well developed to derive useful findings and
recommendations provide an indication of factors of success or failure. Findings and
recommendations of the study are not always fully internally consistent, which reflects
the diversity of respondents and individual experiences from having participated to
project implementation in locations with very different geographic characteristics (i.e.
rural West Bank versus urban Gaza) and in a variety of pre-existing social, political, and
economic settings, outside the control of the project. Beneficiaries might also have over-
or underreported specific benefits, depending on such factors as overall satisfaction with
PA performance, economic growth, or general economic situation of the household, and
wish to influence potential and/or perceived future flow of benefits. However, the high
number of respondents and the use of standardized questionnaires and data triangulation
with a variety of data collection methods provide sufficient assurance that the study can
be used as indicative of qualitative tendencies.

Key findings

7.     Key findings reflect the results of both quantitative and qualitative data obtained
from direct beneficiaries (PSG members, employees of JSCs and VCs, and heads of VCs)
and indirect beneficiaries (volunteers, members of PSG general assembly, and subproject
beneficiaries) of the VNDP.

Mobilization Process

      High levels of awareness and participation in the mobilization process, however,
       further efforts should be made to increase citizen’s awareness of the mobilization
       process.
      Voices of youth and women were heard in the mobilization process:


                                           65
           o 66 percent of the direct beneficiaries say that the PSGs within their
               communities included 1-2 women members. 29 percent say the PSGs
               included 3-4 women members and 4 percent say they included more than
               4 women members.
           o According to the direct beneficiaries, in 60 percent of the cases, 3
               members or less were youth; and in 40 percent of the cases, more than 3
               youth members were present.
      While quantitative results show high levels of relevance of the mobilization
       activities, qualitative results reflect that the fact that the process was prolonged
       the relevance decreased.
      Youth’s participation seems to be evaluated as more valuable than women’s, even
       though results show that women are more active in attending meetings than youth.

Recommendations

      Further investigate why government employees see that the mobilization process
       is less relevant compared to the PSG members.
      In Gaza relevance of these activities is much more than in West Bank, which
       reflects their increased needs to mobilization activities. More mobilization
       activities should be conducted in Gaza neighborhoods, while further examination
       should be done in West Bank towards the real needs for mobilization.
      Women’s presence in the PSGs as members should be further examined in the
       West Bank as results show low representation of women members especially in
       the middle of West Bank in comparison with other areas.
      Further genuine support to women’s role in the mobilization process must be
       enhanced rather than accepting their presence as project criteria.

Capacity Building

      Knowledge of the capacity building activities is less widespread than knowledge
       of the mobilization process. Still, the majority of direct beneficiaries say that they
       are knowledgeable of the capacity building component of the VNDP.
      Direct beneficiaries express higher levels of participation in the capacity building
       activities as these activities were mainly targeted to them.
      Active participation in capacity building activities was evident among women
       members, while youth were less active.

Recommendations

      In order to maximize the benefit of the capacity building activities, it is
       recommended to include the most specialized groups of the communities who can
       acquire the skills and use them for the development purposes.
      Continued efforts in capacity building activities should resume with community
       level beneficiaries especially direct project implementers especially in financial
       matters.



                                            66
     In Gaza, more specialized trainings are requested especially targeting women and
      women issues.
Subprojects

        Subprojects were intended to be incentives for the participatory approach that was
         adopted by the VNDP.
        There is a higher level of knowledge of, and participation in, subprojects in the
         West Bank compared to Gaza.
        Joint projects are considered more relative to individual community needs
         compared to the individual projects mainly in West Bank. It’s important to
         highlight here that the joint projects in West Bank constituted 80 percent of the
         granting whereas only 20 percent were dedicated to the individual projects. In
         Gaza all projects were individual projects except for one joint project.20
        More than half of both direct and indirect beneficiaries state that projects were
         somewhat successful in satisfying the community needs.
        Qualitative results confirm the finding that individual projects were not as visible
         as the joint projects. This, however, does not preclude that individual projects
         were vital for the individual villages in enhancing their capability to indulge in the
         joint projects and to provide other services, such as providing computers for
         teachers in West Ramallah villages.
        Relations among JSCs were strengthened as a result of the subprojects. However,
         attention should be given to locations in West Bank who think that the projects
         did not contribute to strengthening the relations among the JSCs.

Recommendations:

        The fact that many of the projects were not completed or even initiated during the
         first BIA exercise decreases the project knowledge and participation levels, yet
         further efforts should be done in Gaza in making the projects more visible to
         citizens.
        Women and PSG members should be given more space to participate in the
         subproject activities.
        Create time balance between mobilization activities and grants (individual/joint)
         implementation processes to make sure that results are immediately visible and
         made clear for all citizens why they were engaged in the participatory approach at
         first hand.
        Reinforce the value of the joint projects as a means to solve collective problems
         within the JSCs.




20
  The nature and size of individual projects in Gaza however gave them the general benefit of joint-
subprojects. They are considered individual because they fell under one municipal administration. However,
evidence showed that in most cases in Gaza subprojects benefited more than one neighborhood per
subproject.



                                                   67
      Complete and build on individual projects in Gaza to be more visible and
       effective for citizens.
      Further projects that develop services provided to women should be adopted
       especially in West Bank.

CDD Approach

      While the result show that the term CDD is known for most of the beneficiaries, it
       is not yet clear, however, that there is a good understanding of its meanings and
       implications.
      According to direct beneficiaries, more citizens within their communities know
       about the CDD approach, however, fewer citizens understand what it means.
      The CDD approach was an opportunity for the communities to strengthen their
       relations and joint efforts.
      Direct and indirect beneficiaries sense the improvements that the CDD approach
       contributed to them; as the increased ability of the communities in planning and
       implementing projects. In addition, the ability to attract new donors to support
       development projects must be further promoted.
      The results show that communities became more aware of the need to engage
       women and youth in decision making
      While the numbers of women participating in the VNDP process are lower than
       the numbers of men, the results show that women, when involved, are generally
       more interested and proactive than men
      While all age groups are involved during the consultation phase, the role of youth
       declines as the process moves into decision-making, implementation, and follow-
       up.
      The engagement of other less fortunate groups within the VNDP process was not
       systematic. Proxy indicators, about the participation of the poor and persons with
       special needs, show that they are present and that a more robust and focused
       approach is needed to reach a higher level of the less fortunate groups.

Recommendations

      Further efforts should be made in explaining the CDD approach to community
       members in order to adopt this approach in planning and designing their
       development projects.
      The approach is less known and less understood among Gaza beneficiaries. It is
       recommended to increase awareness efforts related to clarifying and presenting
       the approach.
      Women and youth’s knowledge and understanding of the CDD approach should
       be more invested in conducting further activities directed towards the whole
       community and increasing their awareness of the importance of this approach.
      Understanding the approach and the VNDP mechanism and the linkages between
       all processes; especially the mobilization and the sub-granting will decrease the
       levels of in-clarity and frustration among the communities in really viewing the
       results of this approach on the ground.

                                           68
      Taking into consideration the unique situation in Gaza and the role of the LGUs;
       it is recommended to increase the level of involvement of the government units in
       order to strengthen the PSGs role in joint activities.
      JSC’s role in strengthening the relations among the VCs in West Bank should be
       further elaborated and supported. In particular, full-time employees will increase
       the efficiency of the implementation of the CDD approach and will increase their
       motivation to bring joint projects and efforts to a success.
      Involving and including women and youth in CDD approach was essential to
       bring the participatory approach to a success and make sure that their voices are
       heard, however, future efforts must seek to maintain their quality roles and
       contributions.
      Further creative ideas are encouraged to activate the role of women and youth
       through the PSGs.
      Maintaining unforeseen achievements especially for women is essential in future
       interventions, as the support for women groups to engage in establishing their
       own institutions and projects.

BIA cycle 2

Methodology

8.      The cycle 2 assessment was carried out by the same consultant and using the same
participatory multi-disciplinary methodological approach as for the cycle 1 assessment.
Fieldwork was carried out July 20-30, 2013. The final report was delivered August 2013.
As for the cycle 1 BIA, a representative sample 40 communities was selected (29 in the
West Bank and 11 in Gaza). The total sample for the two surveys was 600 direct and
indirect beneficiaries. Seven key informant interviews were carried out with OC/JSC
members, the MOLG and VNDP officials, and other informed stakeholders. Finally,
three focus groups were organized (for youth, women and PSG members/YWVs),
involving 36 beneficiaries.

A note on methodology

9.      As for the first BIA, the cycle 2 BIA was intended to derive findings, and to
assess whether recommendations from the first BIA had been successfully incorporated
in the project. Also, the intention was that the second BIA would give more focus on the
outputs of the implemented subprojects and the outcomes on improving the lives of
beneficiaries, and less on the community mobilization aspects. It does not present an
evaluation of the overall success of the project. The quality of the study was again high,
based on the number of respondents and mix of data collection methods used.

Key findings

10.     As for the first BIA, the key findings reflect the results of both quantitative and
qualitative data obtained from direct and indirect beneficiaries.



                                            69
Mobilization Process

11.    This phase in cycle 2 included the re-mobilization of the VNDP project
communities as well as the re-formation and certification of representative PSGs. This
part of the project took less time as compared to cycle 1, as recommended by the
consultant in the first BIA, and results confirm the increased satisfaction in this process
as compared to cycle 1.

      Compared to April 2012, there is a clear increase in the levels of participation in
       the mobilization process. The increase is consistent among direct and indirect
       beneficiaries. However, we see relatively and comparably high levels of increase
       in participation in Gaza. Among direct beneficiaries in Gaza we see an increase
       from 60 percent in April 2012 to 86 percent in July 2013. In the West Bank the
       level increased from 67 percent to 69 percent.
      The number of women and youth members in PSGs has grown since the first BIA.
       The majority (56 percent) of direct beneficiaries state that their community PSG
       has 1-2 women members, while 34 percent include 3-4 members, and a final 8
       percent have more than 4. Nearly all re-activated PSGs are headed by males;
       interestingly, 3 PSGs have selected women as head of a PSG position in the West
       Bank (1 in the south, 2 in the north) compared to 93 male-headed PSGs in the first
       cycle.
      Females and youth remain less active in PSG participation than males and older
       respondents. In fact, the amount of females who report involvement in more than
       3 meetings regarding formation has fallen by 6 points to 74 percent. In addition,
       66 percent of youth report involvement in more than 3 meetings, compared to 91
       percent of middle-aged and 96 percent of older respondents.
      However, the inclusion of women and youth in planning meetings is considered
       more relevant than in the previous poll. 75 percent of direct beneficiaries report
       that they evaluate the participation of women as valuable, while 82 percent say
       the same of youth. Though youth involvement remains slightly rated, the change
       in perception regarding women is more dramatic. In the previous round, only 57
       percent of direct beneficiaries considered women’s inclusion as valuable, an 18
       point difference. In addition, no direct beneficiaries in the West Bank or Gaza
       consider the participation of youth or women as ‘not valuable.’
      In addition, the role of women, youth, and the disabled was enhanced since April
       2012. 62 percent of direct beneficiaries report that the “women’s groups had
       become more influential or efficient.” 70 percent said the same of youth, and 22
       percent state “disabled people were engaged and given a role in planning and
       development.” Though the inclusion of disabled Palestinians lags far behind other
       youth and women, there were double digit increases in the perception of inclusion
       across all groups.

Capacity Building

12.    The capacity building component was an indirect component in cycle 2 and
included community coaching and support in proposal development.


                                            70
      Awareness of capacity building activities has risen substantially since the first
       BIA. Presently, 75 percent of direct beneficiaries state they are very
       knowledgeable of the activities, and a further 23 percent are somewhat
       knowledgeable. Awareness rose sharpest in Gaza, where the amount of
       respondents who say they are very knowledgeable has increased to 85 percent.
      Male direct beneficiaries are now more active participants in capacity building
       activities than female, though both are participating at greater rates. 82 percent of
       males state they actively participate, compared to 77 percent of females.
       Participation in capacity building activities was highest among middle-aged direct
       beneficiaries (73 percent) and lowest among youth (45 percent).
      The amount of direct beneficiaries who believe that capacity-building activities
       improved the JSC’s planning capabilities has fallen since the previous round.
       Previously, 61 percent of direct beneficiaries agreed with this assessment,
       compared to 49 percent previously.

Subprojects

      The vast majority (98 percent) of direct beneficiaries report that they have
       knowledge of the VNDP subprojects to varying degrees, and a further 94 percent
       of direct beneficiaries report that they participated in these subprojects to varying
       degrees.
      Direct Male beneficiaries (75 percent) were once again more active participants
       than their females (63 percent) counterparts, though each are more active.
      Participation has risen, most dramatically among direct beneficiaries from Gaza.
       77 percent of all respondents report participating more than 3 meetings, though
       non-participation has not changed. 95 percent of direct beneficiaries in Gaza state
       they were involved in more than 3 meetings, indicating near universal
       participation.
      Direct beneficiaries in the West Bank are more likely to consider joint projects as
       very relevant, while those in Gaza are more supportive of individual projects. 73
       percent of respondents in the West Bank consider joint projects as very relevant,
       compared to only 35 percent in Gaza. Conversely, 67 percent of direct
       beneficiaries in Gaza evaluate individual projects as very relevant.
      More than half of both direct and indirect beneficiaries state that projects were
       successful in satisfying the community needs. The percentage of beneficiaries that
       consider that subprojects “contributed greatly” to satisfying community needs
       increased from 24 percent for cycle 1 to 54 percent for cycle 2. In cycle 1, 15
       percent found that subprojects did not contribute significantly or not at all, a
       number that decreased to 4 percent for cycle 2. The remainder in each case (61
       percent before and 42 percent after) found that subprojects contributed to some
       extent.
      In the Second Cycle, the margin of inclusion was expanded to embrace projects
       that target (women, youth, children, unemployed, farmers). 41 percent of projects
       targeted women, 44 percent targeted youth, and the remaining 15 percent targeted
       farmers and children.


                                            71
     43 percent of direct beneficiaries believe that subprojects contributed greatly to
      the development of services provided to women, while 49 percent state the same
      in services related to youth.

CDD Approach

     Direct beneficiaries believe that citizens in their community have become slightly
      more aware of the CDD approach. Only 26 percent believe that less than 40
      percent of citizens know about the CDD, a figure that has remained unchanged
      since the previous poll. However, 38 percent believe that more than 60 percent of
      citizens are aware of the CDD approach an increase of 8 points.
     Direct beneficiaries were less positive in their evaluations regarding
      comprehension of the CDD approach. 54 percent believe that less than 40 percent
      of citizens in their community understand the term CDD, an increase of 4 points
      from April 2012. At the same time, only 12 percent of respondents believe that
      more than 60 percent comprehend the meaning.
     Indirect beneficiaries believe they are more knowledgeable of the CDD approach.
      35 percent reported they are knowledgeable, and a further 28 percent say they
      were knowledgeable to some extent. Furthermore, there is almost universal (98
      percent) awareness of the term CDD among indirect beneficiaries. There was no
      difference in awareness between males and females, though middle-aged indirect
      beneficiaries (67 percent) were the most knowledgeable when data is
      disaggregated by age.
     The CDD approach was an opportunity for the communities to strengthen their
      relations and joint efforts. A majority 95 percent of direct respondents thinks that
      the VNDP project CDD approach has improved such efforts. Female respondents
      and youth were more skeptical than their counterparts in the belief that the CDD
      strengthens joint efforts among VCs and reduces combativeness.
     Respondents continue to believe that their communities are more capable of
      engaging youth than women. 80 percent of indirect beneficiaries believe the CDD
      approach helped communities become more capable of engaging women,
      compared to 86 percent who say the same about youth. While female respondents
      were most likely to say that their communities are ready to engage women,
      younger respondents were the least likely to say their communities are ready to
      engage youth.
     Similar to the first BIA, women and youth are most likely to be excluded in the
      later stages of project management. The largest gender and age gaps existed in the
      field of proposal writing and implementation and follow-up.




                                          72
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      Two stakeholder workshops were held towards the end of the project – one in the
West Bank and one in the Gaza Strip. The workshops aimed at involving stakeholders
who had been involved in, or affected by the activities and actions of the VNDP with the
aim of evaluating the two project cycles. By structuring a process of reflection and
creating the opportunity to share learning and feedback, the workshops sought to create
greater ownership of the decision-making process and involvement of the various
stakeholders and give communities a say in designing future interventions.

2.    The key findings are reproduced here as presented in the workshop reports (with
some editing of language) to give a full picture of the variety of views and impressions of
the VNDP.

West Bank

3.       The Reflection Workshop was held on February 13, 2013. It was organized by the
OC for the West Bank, the Centre for Continuing Education (CCE) of Birzeit University.
The workshop was attended by 38 participants representing the PMT, JSCPD staff, PSG
members, CCE, and World Bank staff. The reflection process was designed into three
main sessions. The first included review of the main achievements of the project’s two
cycles regarding women and youth participation and mobilization. The second part
identified the lessons learned, and recommendations to the project in terms of the roles of
the various key players in the project, and major project’s components. And finally the
third part identified major problems and challenges that faced the project implementation
in all project’s stages.

Assessing the Past: Suggestions for Improvements

4.      The first session entailed determining the main gaps encountered and ways to
overcome, in addition to recommendations and suggestions for improvement. This stage
was crucial as it revised all issues related to the project’s two life cycles, starting from the
project announcement, to the PSG formation and towards the implementation process.
The main results of this session included the following:
 
Project Design Amendments and Changes

5.       The project in general and through its two cycles was viewed to be long and the
length of each cycle and the steps should be reconsidered. Yet the second cycle proved to
be more efficient and intensive in terms of activities and the changes made regarding
facilitating the project implementation process. The process of revising concept notes and
proposals did not take long as it did during the first cycle. Communities were given a
chance to start working as soon as they finished forming their PSGs, which meant for
some to start preparing their concept notes within less than two months from the
beginning of the second cycle. So for future interventions a key issue to be taken into
consideration is to plan stages well in terms of their length, and needed organizational


                                              73
arrangements so that community mobilization is optimum and project implementation
starts before people lose their enthusiasm and interest.

6.      The other issue of involving the JSC engineers from the very beginning and
consulting them in terms of prices and projects ideas and feasibilities, which helped in
eliminating unfeasible projects and providing more accurate projects items prices for
procurement in addition to project maintenance and operation, which was not well
prepared in the first phase. These steps should be considered for any future intervention
and engineers should always be a major player in all stages especially when the project
ideas drafting starts.

7.      In addition, community contributions of 10 percent, which used to be an issue of
conflict during the first cycle, proved to be easier dealt with as all PSGs and JPSGs were
asked during the stage of developing their concept notes to provide a commitment letter
that they will transfer these money or allocate other in kind contribution before the
commencing date of the project implementation. All communities committed to this
obligation, and it was clear that it was more efficient to hold communities responsible
from the very beginning, and such process should be maintained in any future project.

8.      The allocation of the JSCs of 1 percent was not enough and needs to be
reconsidered especially that it did not help increase the efficiency of the JSC and their
involvement in a better way in all different stages of the project implementation. The
other connected issue is that in the future and for any similar intervention there should be
a number of procedures to guarantee institutionalizing the participation of the engineers
and accounts in any given project in a reasonable and accepted level that helps fulfilling
the project successfully.

9.      Regarding joint and individual projects allocations (80/20 percent), there was a
complaint of the idea of imposing the percentages and the idea of joint projects between
villages that do not have so much in common, and where needs might be more pressing
than that of the nearby villages. The recommendation is to reconsider the concept itself
and to propose something more appropriate to different villages’ priorities and needs.

Youth and Women Empowerment

10.     Now the second cycle is about to finish it was found that mobilizing youth and
women is as important as keeping them active throughout the project implementation and
in the future as well. Their role was so important in highlighting issues and projects ideas
that the communities did not even consider prior to their participation. So it was agreed
that they should participate in any future intervention. Yet, it is also import to enhance
their role in operating projects of their communities to ensure their continuous
engagement and to increase their commitment was highlighted to make sure that they feel
responsible for their communities and take a role in changing their realities not only in
discussing, drafting or writing proposals and community development plans. The future
trend in communities is to involve youth and women in the actual implementation of
projects to increase and foster their ownership, and enhance their commitment.


                                            74
11.     Allocating financial and other kinds of incentives for the youth to foster their
commitment and feeling of appreciation and acknowledgement for what their
participation. The idea would be to allocate local contributions for incentives for the
youth in the form of job opportunities, financial rewards, or recognition through
certificates that make them feel appreciated and respected for what they did. This may
lead to more commitment from them, and encourage other youth to take part in the local
community ongoing development process.

Project Support Group Activation and Sustainability

12.     The participants highlighted the importance of the project in brining CBOs
together for the first time and the interaction among them and the local council which
served as a natural process to decide on their communities’ priorities, to continue
implementing projects that help bring different CBOs and community’s representatives
together in setting their communities priorities and planning for their future. The concept
itself helped bring together a diversity of backgrounds and experiences to consider
communities’ resources and ways to develop them, and thus it is deemed important to
maintain in the future for other projects and interventions. The participants came up with
an idea of forming a consortium of PSGs within the same JSC to meet annually,
exchange experience, and also to conduct periodical meetings within each PSG to review
and develop their strategies and plans.

13.     One of the most important issues regarding PSG formation and activation was to
have their role in M&E maintained throughout the project implementation. Communities
should have proved their ownership of the project, and should have played a role in
following up project implementation so that they can lead future projects effectively and
efficiently.

Institutionalizing the MOLG and District Offices Role

14.     All participants agreed that the MOLG and district offices’ roles are important in
making sure that project implementation takes place as planned, and in particular when
there are problems and need for amendments. The PMT’s role was perceived as optimal
and helpful and in particular during the second cycle which showed a very high level of
commitment and follow up. Yet, the District Office role was not perceived as very
successful and there was a need to involve them more in different project’s components.
Participants also expressed their wish to have more involvement in different projects in
the communities, and participating in the communities’ different projects and activities.

15.     Communities also expressed their wish to have the MOLG keener on marketing
their CDPs and help them find funding for their priorities so that they feel there is a high
level of commitment of the MOLG towards achieving their plans and helping them
secure funds to implement their projects.




                                            75
16.    By the end of the reflection workshop the best JSCs were awarded for their
outstanding performance and to encourage all other JSCs to excel in future projects to
receive the same acknowledgement and appreciation.

Gaza

17.     The Reflection Workshop was held on May 29, 2013. It was organized by the OC,
the Center for Engineering and Planning (CEP), with attendance from the PMT in Gaza
and from the World Bank. It was organized around five working groups to discuss: (a)
the life cycle of the project according to the VNDP manual; (b) micro-projects
implementation in terms of the mechanism, size, timing, and method of preparation; (c)
Project support Committees Capacity-building Program; and (d) M&E mechanism.

The life cycle of the project according to the VNDP manual

18.       Findings:

Strengths:

         The existence of supportive local community institutions (municipalities,
          associations, and civil society organizations).
         Active participation of community members (engineers, mayors, etc.).
         The involvement of local community members in prioritizing projects.
         Formation of the project support committees representing all members of the
          community (women, youth, and the elderly).
         The identification of needs in the marginalized areas.
         Preparation of projects proposals by committees support.
         Participation in the preparation of tenders between municipal engineers and some
          members of the project support committees.
         The coordination between the PSGs, the municipalities, the PMT, and the
          consultant in supervising and following up the micro-projects.

Weaknesses:

         Projects advertising and preparation period took a long time.
         Training and preparation of project proposal took long time.
         The inadequacy of the grant according to the needs of each region.
         The division of the grant to more than one part.

Recommendations:

         Increase the grant allocated.
         Target other marginalized areas.
         Establish communication methods between committees in all areas.
         Accelerate the implementation stages.


                                             76
         Work in parallel in all areas.

Micro-projects implementation in terms of the mechanism, size, timing and method of
preparation

19.       Findings:

Strengths:

         Mechanism:
          - Community participation.
          - The strong relationship and coordination between the project support
            committee and municipalities.
          - The capacity building of the projects’ support committee.
          - The acknowledgement of the local community about the municipal
            development plan.

         Preparation:
          - The involvement of the projects supports committees in the preparation of
             projects proposals.
          - The existence of capacity building consultant.
          - Participation with the municipality's in overcoming obstacles in the projects
             implementation.

         Sustainability:
          - The preparation an O&M plan for the projects.

Weaknesses:

         Mechanism:
          - Time consuming process between the beginning and implementation of the
            project.
          - Dividing the project into phases.

         Size and Time:
          - The limited budget of the projects.
          - The length of time between the preparation and implementation of projects.

         Sustainability
          - Prepare an O&M plan for the projects.
          - There is no funding for O&M for the projects.

Project support Committees Capacity-building Program

20.       Findings:



                                            77
Strengths:

      The importance of capacity building for the project supporting committee.
      The development of communication, networking, project proposal writing, and
       management skills.
      Capacity building program was very useful and the trainers were professionals.
      Work on the project management in the future.
      Diversity of projects supporting committees (youth, women, and the elderly).
      The ability to identify future needs and priorities.
      The participation of projects supporting committees in projects prioritizing

Weaknesses:

      The capacity building program did not include all the municipality engineers.
      The limited time of the capacity building program.
      The existence of huge amount of new information in the capacity building
       program.
      The lack of fund raising training in the capacity building program to insure
       projects sustainability.

Recommendations:

      Include a capacity building program in future projects.
      Insure involvement of community members in future projects.
      Insure sustainability of project in the capacity building program.
      Carry out fund raising for the projects that have not been implemented.

M&E mechanism

Strengths:

      Proper coordination between all project’s stakeholders (the MOLG, OCs,
       municipalities and support committees).
      Continuous freedom of communication between all the project stakeholders.
      Insuring community participation in assess the need, prioritizing the micro-
       projects and help overcome implementation obstacles.
      The readiness of the tender documents from the competent authorities
       (municipalities, support committees).
      Continuous follow up from the consultant during all the project phases that
       includes site visits, meetings with support committee and continuously provide
       technical support.
      Activating the role of marginalized groups (youth and women).
      Strong capacity building program for the micro-projects supporting committees.
      Participation and coordination with the relevant municipality in all stages in
       micro-projects implementation.


                                           78
         Insuring the participation of youth and women in all project activities.
         The adequacy of performance indicators (output and impact).

Weaknesses:

         Capacity building period was limited and needs to be extended.
         Very large capacity building materials.
         The lack of fund raising training in the capacity building program to insure
          projects sustainability
         Grant allocations for each region are not enough to meet all needs.
         Lack of periodic assessment models.

Lessons learned:

         Allocated budgets for micro-projects should meet the increasing needs of the
          communities and the increasing population.
         Promote community involvement approach in identifying and assessing the
          community needs.
         Providing continued needs assessment to track changes during the implementation
          of the subprojects is an important issue.
         Micro-projects should not be divided into more than 1 phase and not do vary the
          fund sources.
         Emphasis on the need for a capacity building program for project stockholders
          (micro-project support committees, municipal engineers, etc.).
         The need for flexibility in transferring grants between micro-projects.
         The importance of consolidating the principle of democracy and transparency.
         Emphasis on the sustainability of projects.

Recommendations:

         Include capacity building program in any future projects.
         Engage the support committees in any future projects.
         Include for the sustainability of the project in the training program.
         Marketing the identified micro- projects that have not been implemented.

The most important successes of the project

21.       Findings:

         The speed of communication between all parties in the project coordination
          among all stakeholders (the MOLG, OCs, municipalities, and PSG) with the
          presence of supportive local community institutions (municipality, associations,
          and civil society organizations).
         Activating the community participation for all community members (notables,
          engineers, mayors, academics, committees support) to identify and estimate the


                                               79
    societal needs and determining the priorities of these needs of the target areas and
    to assist in resolving and overcoming obstacles.
   The effort of media for the project in the targeted areas.
   Develop an area plans to reflect the needs of those areas (now, each region have
    list of needed projects and they can marketed and presented to donors to help
    them in implementation of these projects).
   Improve the relationship between the municipality and the local community,
    which is one of the most important results of the project, which lead to discuss the
    plans and projects jointly with the local community and to determine the future
    plan for the target areas.
   Project work in marginalized areas was a positive point and has payoff in
    population centers. Also, the idea of forming committees to support the micro-
    projects was an important step in the project success. It allowed for activating the
    role of women and youth in the process of monitoring and follow-up development
    projects.
   Include further topics in the capacity building program for the project
    stakeholders would increase the ability to depend more on themselves in similar
    projects.
   The presence of cultural centers gives the ability for communities to connect with
    donors and municipal institutions and to discuss relating issues to them.




                                        80
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The Executive Summary of the Borrower’s ICR is presented below, edited for
consistency with the rest of the ICR concerning layout and spelling. It was prepared in
August 2013. The comments on the ICR received from the MOLG on April 24, 2014 are
included at the end of Annex 7.

Executive Summary

Introduction

2.     The objectives of the completion report is to review the overall implementation
performance of the project, assess the socio-economic and environmental impact , and
draw out a series of lessons learned to assist the MOLG and World Bank in designing and
implementing future projects and programs.

3.      In terms of completion methodology, some background work was conducted prior
to that. Firstly, 2 project reflection workshops was conducted with the participation of
oversight consultant, JSCs and district offices, the PMT and world bank team to generate
recommendation and evaluate the implementation process. World Bank supervision
missions reports and related documents available in-house, highlighting major decisions
taken during implementation and the outstanding issue which the PMT would follow-up
on.

4.      Secondly, BIA second round was conducted in the month of July 2013 to collect
primary data on project activities, the beneficiaries, and a control group and to assets
beneficiaries’ satisfaction from project activities and outputs. Finally, in terms of data
collection, the PMT was provided with much data by the JSCs, and qualitative
information was gathered directly by the team during its field visits conducted in the
project area.

5.      With regard to field work, the team initially spent a few days in most of the
project locations in both West Bank and Gaza with the participation of district offices
staff and JSCs members. PSGs took the responsibility of arraigning these field visits at
the community level and invited some community key persons to participate.

Project design and objectives

6.    The VNDP is a four year, US$10 million program of consultative development,
implemented by the MOLG, financed by the World Bank with the technical support from
the OCs in the West Bank and in Gaza.

7.    The VNDP was approved by World Bank in April 2008 and became effective in
October 2008. The closing date for the project was in April 2012 following an 18-month
non cost extension. The total project cost was US$10 million, out of which US$7.0


                                           81
million for Implementation of Subprojects Using a CDD Approach, US$2.0 million
Capacity Building for Communities and LGUs and US$1.0 million Institutional Support
for the Counterpart Institution

8.     The Owner for the project is the MOLG, and the executing agency for the
subprojects was JSCs in West Bank and Municipalities in Gaza, capacity activities was
done by the OCs to all project stockholders such as PSGs members, JSCs staff, engineers,
volunteers, and the PMT.

9.      By August 2013, all of project outputs were achieved: the VNDP was announced
in 109 village and neighborhood, 109 Project Support Groups (PSG) were established ,
sessions for updating the community development plans were conducted, 109 community
strategic plans were reviewed and updated, project concept notes for all joint and single
projects were prepared, reviewed by the MOLG Directorate staff and approved by the
PMT, project proposals for all 53 joint and 163 village and neighborhood based
community projects were prepared and approved .

10.     However, despite difficulties such as provision of required permits and licenses,
selection of joint projects, budget restriction and lack of raw materials by the end of July
2013, more than 98 percent of all community projects were completed and handed over.
In terms of projects categorization, it can be noted that, out of the 216 community
projects, 65 projects or 30 percent were classified as public social services projects
focusing on institutional support to governmental schools and kindergartens or improving
the community situation in the cultural, sport, and community recreational aspects.

11.     Approximately 30 percent of community projects (65) were classified as public
infrastructure & machinery services, with the key focus on the development and
rehabilitation of internal transportation systems (general and agricultural roads, retaining
walls, pavements, etc.), water and electricity networks, as well as the waste management
services generally provided to the community by the LGUs and JSCPDs.

12.     Finally, 39 percent or 84 projects were classified as institutional support projects
targeting LGUs or CBOs organizational development in terms of facilities, services and
equipment. Examples of such projects include the provision of computers, furniture and
equipment to JSCPDs, local councils and CBOs.

13.    Regarding the targeted beneficiaries of the projects they varied, with a high and
approximately equal concentration on youth (35 percent), women (28 percent) and
community (31 percent). 31 percent of the projects target children.

14.    BIA was carried out by an independent consulting firm, Arab World for Research
and Development, which was selected competitively. The objectives of the assessment
were to assess the participation of and impact of the community mobilization process
beneficiaries, namely, women, youth and other marginalized groups, and assess the roles
of new social forms evolving out of the VNDP. Fieldwork was implemented over a two-
month period and the main findings include the following:


                                            82
      Compared to April 2012, there is a clear increase in the levels of participation in
       the mobilization process. The increase is consistent among direct and indirect
       beneficiaries. However, we see relatively and comparably high levels of increase
       in participation in Gaza. Among direct beneficiaries in Gaza we see an increase
       from 60 percent in April 2012 to 86 percent in July 2013. In the West Bank the
       level increased from 67 percent to 69 percent.
      Nearly all re-activated PSGs are headed by males; interestingly, 3 PSGs have
       selected women as head of a PSG position in the West Bank (1 in the south, 2 in
       the north) compared to 93 male-headed PSGs in the first cycle.
      Therefore, 45 percent of direct respondents, compared to 27 percent in April, say
       that the subprojects have contributed to fulfilling community needs. This increase
       is also consistent among the needs of women and youth. 43 percent of women and
       49 percent of youth stated that the project augments the development of services
       provided.
      In general 96 percent of direct respondents think that the project contributed in
       satisfying community needs an increase from 85 percent in April. Moreover, 97
       percent of indirect beneficiaries think that the project participated in fulfilling the
       community needs.

15.    At the date of preparing this report, 93 percent of the grant was disbursed,
although by 31 October 2013 all remaining funds will be disbursed.

Project development objective

16.    The VNDP PDO is: “within a fragile context, to promote a coordinated
development approach which builds the capacity of communities to plan for and manage
development resources”. Following from this objective, the key indicators for project
success include:

      Percentage of activities identified through the Area Development Plans that
       receive funding from other sources; and
      Percentage of projects with economically and/or socially marginalized groups as
       main beneficiaries.

Target group

17.    The beneficiaries consisted of residences of 93 communities in West Bank, 16
communities in Gaza, 11 JSC in West Bank and the PMT from the MOLG. Targeted
population as per project documents were around 257,077. Based on subproject proposals,
and includes incidence of double counting when one community has benefited from a
number of subprojects direct project beneficiaries reached 445,197 around 58 percent of
them were female.

Overall Evaluation



                                             83
Project implementation performance

18.     If we want to judge about how our work makes a difference to people’s lives, we
need to think about monitoring. By monitoring, we mean the routine and systematic
collection of information that helped us to check the progress towards achieving our
outcomes.

19.     It is still early at this stage to evaluate project impact as part of the subprojects
recently completed, some outcome indicators can be measured accurately by the end of
October 2013; these are indicators # 8, 9, 10, and 11, i.e. those related to PSG formation,
updating CDPs, activating systems for public disclosure of results, and JSCPDs capacity-
building. As detailed in Table A7.1 below, the targets set for these indicators have been
overachieved.

20.    Regarding the indicators #2, 3, 4, and 5, the preliminary results hint at the
following:

        28 percent of all community projects benefit women, while 35 percent - youth;
         these projects focus on the construction or rehabilitation of school or kindergarten
         buildings; provision of computers and other equipment to schools, kindergartens,
         and women CBOs; rehabilitation of playgrounds; construction of stadiums and
         public parks, etc. Results obtained allow concluding that the outcome indicators #
         3 and 4 were met.
        90 percent of subprojects projects target economically and / or socially
         marginalized groups 21 (i.e., projects targeting women, youth, children, and
         farmers); this percentage was increased due to expanding the definition of
         marginalized groups to include women, youth, children, farmers, disabled,
         communities inside the wall and all Gaza communities.
        Estimated communities’ contribution to all 216 VNDP projects is US$1.77
         million or even more of total projects budgets, meaning that the indicator # 5 has
         been achieved. Regarding Indicator # 6 “At least 40 percent of implemented CDD
         projects benefit 2 communities or more”.

21.    Up until August 2013, 84 out of 216 projects were joint, i.e., benefiting two or
more communities, corresponding to 39 percent, Performance should be evaluated as
overachieving because during the second cycle all villages in Qalqiliya, Tubas, Salfit,
North Jerusalem A have allocated their village based grants to joint which mean that
acceptance of joint work increased.

22.    Finally, regarding the indicator # 1, “Percentage of financing of block grants
leveraged from other sources for priorities identified through CDPs”, the amount is


21
  Marginalized groups would include women, youth, disabled, and economically marginalized groups (un-
employed persons and communities that were separated from their main livelihoods; either by road blocks,
or the Separation Barrier, etc.)



                                                  84
   around US$33 million. It is estimated by that the average is around 23 percent of overall
   CDP estimated amounts, across the communities. The percentage of leveraged financing
   for each CDP varies – some CDPs managed to leverage large scale projects and others
   did not leverage anything, it was noticed also that West Bank communities leveraged
   more financing than Gaza communities.

                       Table A7.1: Updated Result framework (August 15, 2013).


PDO Level Results Indicators          Planned           Actual                     Comments

1. Indicator One: Percentage of            20%              23%    The percentage is around 23% of overall
financing of block grants leveraged                                CDP estimated amounts, across the
from other sources for priorities                                  communities (around US$140 million). It
identified through CDPs.                                           was noticed that West Bank communities
                                                                   were more active in this issue than Gaza
                                                                   communities.
2, Indicator Two: Percentage of            70%              90%    Most of the projects are for the direct or
projects with socially and/or                                      indirect benefit of women, youth, farmers,
economically marginalized groups                                   who are considered as marginalized
as benefiting from investments.                                    groups according to project documents.
                                                                   The PMT expanded the definition of
                                                                   marginalized to include geographically
                                                                   marginalized communities, such as
                                                                   communities with restrictions on
                                                                   movements and access restrictions on
                                                                   people and goods, and communities distant
                                                                   from main city centers.
CORE SECTOR INDICATOR:                                445,197      This figure is for both cycles, based on
Direct Project Beneficiaries                       58% Female      subproject proposals, and includes
(number), of which female                                          incidence of double counting when one
(percentage)                                                       community has benefited from a number
                                                                   of subprojects.
3. Intermediate Result indicator           20%              28%
One: Percentage of projects with
women being the main beneficiaries
(Minimum 20 Percent).
4. Intermediate Result indicator           30%              35%
Two: Percent of projects with youth
being the main beneficiaries
(Minimum 30 Percent).
5. Intermediate Result indicator            10%            18.6%   More details about this percentage and
Three: Beneficiary contributions to      or more                   how much cash and in-kind as total and
the VNDP subprojects are never                                     per JSC will be provided later by financial
below 10 Percent of the grants                                     manager.
throughout the life of the Project.
                                           40%              39%    This percentage is presented in absolute
6. Intermediate Result indicator                                   number of subprojects in both the West
Four: At least 40 Percent of                                       Bank and Gaza as most of Gaza projects
implemented CDD projects benefit 2                                 benefit more than one community. In
communities or more.                                               terms of monetary value of joint
                                                                   subprojects compared to all subprojects
                                                                   the percentage could reach 91%.


                                                   85
7. Intermediate Result indicator               80%            90%     More details will be on the technical audits
Five: At least 80 Percent of                                          reports.
implemented CDD projects are rated
as satisfactorily complying with
technical specifications.
8. Intermediate Result indicator         93 LGUs in     93 LGUs in    This is a 100% results; i.e. all beneficiary
One: No. of target communities with       West Bank      West Bank    communities have prepared and updated
participatory Community                 and 16 LGUs         and 16    their CDPs.
Development Plans (CDPs) prepared            in Gaza       LGUs in
or updated.                                                   Gaza


9. Intermediate Result indicator          20 Percent     27 Percent   Percentage for WB: women 27% and
Two: PSGs are composed of at least          Females        Females    youth 41 % with 3 PSG s headed by
20 Percent women and 30 Percent           30 Percent     43 Percent   women.
youth throughout the CDD process.             youth          youth    Percentage for Gaza: women 27.15 % and
                                                                      youth 50.70% with 0 PSG headed by
                                                                      women.
10. Intermediate Result indicator                 9             11    This is a 100% result.
Three: Number of JSCPDs with
“Capacity Profiles” implemented.
11. Intermediate Result indicator              80%           100%     All communities in the WBG now have a
Four: Minimum 80 Percent                                              functioning notice system as well as a
communities with Functioning                                          functioning complaints handling system.
system of Public disclosure of                                        Related announcements are also updated
results, such as Public Notice                                        on the VNDP internet page: www.vndp.ps.
Boards.
CORE SECTOR INDICATOR:                        100%           100%     This core sector indicator was applied
Grievances registered related to                                      retroactively in December 2012.
delivery of project benefits that are                                 Cumulatively, during the project life, there
actually addressed (percentage)                                       have been 3 grievances; 1 in Gaza, and 2
                                                                      in the West Bank. The 3 community
                                                                      complaints under the VNDP are all
                                                                      addressed and resolved.
12. Intermediate Result indicator              70%            69%     There are currently 13 PMT members in
One: By End of Y2 (Mid Term) at                                       West Bank and Gaza out of which 9 (6 full
least 70 Percent of the functions of                                  time and 3 part time seconded from the
the PMT are assumed by existing                                       MOLG District Offices) are civil servants.
public servants of the MOLG.

    23.     The most important lesson learned during the project implementation is as
    follows: CDD approach has been useful in creating strong links between local
    communities and related JSCs and municipalities as well as integrating neighborhood and
    village plans into municipalities' and JSCs strategic development plans. In addition,
    participation of women in project's activities was an effective approach to promote
    women's rights, gender equality, non-discrimination against women, multi-roles of
    women in society and influence of women on community development-related decision
    making.

    24.    Recommendations for similar tasks as indicated in the reflection workshops
    include: enhance partnership, networking, and coordination among PSGs and related
    municipalities, JSCs and Civil Society Organizations to ensure successful implementation


                                                       86
of the project. In addition, fundraising strategy for each PSG should be enhanced and the
capacity of PSGs' members in proposal writing and diversifying funding sources should
be strengthened.

End Executive Summary

25.     The comments on the ICR received from the MOLG via e-mail on April 24, 2014
are presented below as received, corrected for minor language errors.

Start quotation

       General comments on the ICR of the VNDP

       1 - It’s very important to build the capacity of civil servants to manage this type of
       projects.
       2 - The mobilization process is crucial and important.
       3 - In general, development projects require twice the efforts of traditional
       infrastructure projects.
       4 - During the design of any new project, the lessons learned from the VNDP
       should be taken into consideration.
       5 - Any new project should reduce the developmental gap between the
       municipalities and village councils.
       6 - All players in this field (sector) should concentrate on the marginalized areas.
       7 - To improve economies of scale, infrastructure should be improved and
       revenues enhanced.
       8 - The mobilization process shouldn’t take too long time to avoid frustration
       among people.
       9 - A database should be available.
       10 - The Project Appraisal Document should elaborate on the process of preparing
       technical documents and what to cover.

End quotation




                                            87
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No other partners or stakeholders commented on the ICR.




                                         88
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.       The following documents are in the project file:

           Environmental Management Plan and Environmental Guidelines
            (Environmental and Social Management Framework) (2008)
           Project Appraisal Document (2009)
           Financing Agreement (2009)
           Project aide-memoires (12; 2007-2013)
           Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs #1-10, 2008-2013)
           Capacity building plan (2010)
           Institutional Audit Report (2011)
           Beneficiary Impact Assessment 1st Cycle (2012)
           Beneficiary Impact Assessment 2nd Cycle (2012)
           Oversight Consultant Self-assessment Report 2nd Cycle – Gaza (2013)
           Oversight Consultant Self-assessment Report 2nd Cycle – West Bank (2013)
           VNDP Reflection Workshop Report – Gaza (2013)
           VNDP Reflection Workshop Report – West Bank (2013)
           Restructuring Paper (2012)
           List of activities from CDPs funded by other donors – cycle 1 and cycle 2
           Technical Audit Report Gaza 1st Cycle (2012)
           Technical Audit Report Gaza 2nd Cycle (2013)
           Technical Audit Report West Bank 1st Cycle (2012)
           Technical Audit Report West Bank 2nd Cycle (2013)
           Government Implementation Completion Report (2013)
           General comments on the VNDP ICR, communicated by the MOLG by e-mail
            of April 24, 2014.




                                             89
Additional Annex 10. Implementation Arrangements


     CHART A10.1: VNDP IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS WEST BANK

                                                          Villages
                  Village Councils (VC) form Project Support Group (PSG) representing key stakeholders in
                   each village: VC members, youth, women and CBO representatives
                  Joint Project Support Groups (JPSG) are formed, drawn from PSG members of several VCs
                  JPSGs develop priorities for joint projects based on a JSCPD level planning exercise and are
                   responsible for implementation
                  PSGs identify village specific priorities for implementation and are responsible for monitoring
                   contract execution




         Oversight                        Joint Service Councils for Planning and Development
         Consultant                      Hosts all PSGs in its jurisdiction and carries out a participatory
    Mobilizes communities                 area planning and resource mapping exercise
    and local governmental               Reviews proposals
    institutions and assists             Approves/Rejects proposals
     them throughout the                 Monitors and coordinates implementation of subprojects
         CDD process                      through GIAs with PSG/JPSGs
                                         Pays contractors




                                                    District Offices of MOLG
                                                   Diffuses information on
                                                    project activities
                                                   Receives, analyzes and
                                                    shares activity reports




                                          Ministry of Local Government
            Monitors and coordinates the implementation of the project through an MOU with JSCPDs
            Develops, implements and coordinates policy related issues and capacity building for Local
             Government Units
            Hires and supervises the Oversight Consultant




                                               National Steering Committee
                        Composed of Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of
                                         Finance and Department of Refugee Affairs
                       Supervises the overall orientation, coordination and M&E of project
                        implementation
                       Approves the project’s annual work programs and budgets



                                                  90
         CHART A10.2: VNDP IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS GAZA

      Project Support Groups                               Project Support Groups
          (Neighborhoods)                                        (Camp Bloc)
 Composed of Neighborhood Committee                 Composed of Camp Service Committee
      members, youth and women                       members, youth, women and CBOs
       representatives, and CBOs                   Leads planning process to identify project
 Leads planning process to identify                priorities
  project priorities                               In charge of monitoring contract
 In charge of monitoring contract                  execution
  execution




                                                                                 Project Review Board
                        Oversight Consultant
                                                                               Composed of
                  Mobilizes communities and local                              representatives from: Joint
                   governmental institutions and assists                        Service Councils, Local
                   them throughout the CDD process                              Government Units, CBOs,
                  Forms the Project Review Board }                             Ministry of Local
                  Manages procurement procedures                               Government and DORA
                  Receives, analyzes and shares                               Reviews and
                   activity reports                                             approves/rejects subproject
                                                                                proposals




                                Ministry of Local Government
   Monitors and coordinates the implementation of the project
   Develops, implements and coordinates policy related issues and capacity building for Local
    Government Units
   Hires and supervises the Oversight Consultant
   Pays contractors and suppliers




                                  National Steering Committee
           Composed of: Ministry of Local Government, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of
            Finance and DORA
           Supervises the overall orientation, coordination and M&E of project
            implementation
           Approves the project’s annual work programs and budgets




                                                 91
                                                  To Haifa        To Geva'                           To Yoque'am                        To Kefar Gid'on            To                                          To Gesher
                 34°50’                                            Karmel                                              35°10’                                    'Afula                                   35°30’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Kafr Asad
                                                                                                                                                                  'Illit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VILLAGE AND NEIGHBORHOOD
                                        n Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                       rranea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMMUNITIES THE PROJECT WILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    32°30’                                                REACH WITH FUNDING
                                                                                                                                Yamoun
                                Medite




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PALESTINIAN BUILT-UP AREAS

                                                                                                                                                                   Jenin                                                                                                                  ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
                                                                                                    Aqqaba   Ya'bad               J E N I N
                                                                                          Kaffeen                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL/INTERNATIONAL LINKS

                                                                              Nazlet Issa                 Nazleh sharbiyeh                                                                                                                                                                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
                                                                                                                                                           Qabatia
                                                                              Nazleh Abu Nar           Nazlet Wosta
                                                                                                  Nazleh Sharqiyeh                                                                                                                                                                        NO-MAN’S LAND AREAS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
                                                                                                             Seida
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Proposed                                                    JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bardalah                                                    EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                                                                                                                                                                                 Salhab                                        Bridge                                                     THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980
                                                                                           Jaroushyeh                                                                                  Tayaseer
                           32°20’                                                            Maskoufa                                                                                                                               32°20’                                                EXPRESSWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                     Thagra
                                                                                                        Anapta                                                     Qashdeh
                                                                                                                                                                                  Tubas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EXPRESSWAYS PROPOSED
                                                                                          Tulkarm                                                              Ras Faraa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                            Wad Faraa
                                                                                           TULKARM                                                                                      Tammun                                                                                            MAIN ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Atouf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REGIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                   Nablus                                                                                                                                 REGIONAL ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                   Azmout
                                                                                                                                                                     Deir Al Hatab                                                                                                        LOCAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                       Salem
                                                                                            QALQILYAH                                       Kufor Qallil                          Beit Dajan                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                    Qalqilyah                                                                                  Oujeeb




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                           32°10’                      Wadi Al-Rasha             Ras Teerah                                                           N A B L U S                                                                   32°10’




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jordan
                                                            Ras Ateyah           Al-Daba'ah                                                                                                                                                                                               ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY
                                                                    Jalood      Ezbet Al-Modawar
                                                             Ezbet Salman         Ezbet Al-Ashqar                                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                   Beit Ameem
                                                                                  Azoon Atmeh                               W         Yasouf
                                                                                                                                             E              S              T
                                                                                           Masha                                 Iskakah                                                                                   Damiah
                                                                                                       Sarta                                                                                                               Bridge                                                    0              5             10                 15 KILOMETERS

                                       TEL AVIV-                                    S A L F I T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JORDAN
                To Tel Aviv-Yafo




                                         YAFO                                             Rafat                               Salfeet                                                                                                                                                0                      5                           10 MILES
                                                                                                             Farkha
                                                                                                                              Khirbet Qeis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                        JERICHO                                                                                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                            B               A              N               K                                                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                         ISRAEL                             Deir Abu Mishaal                                                                                                                        32°00’
                  To Ramat Eliyyahu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To As Salt and Amman




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              34°30’                        35°00’ Nazareth                   35°30’
                                                                                      Shiqbah
                                                                                 Qibya Shebtin
                                                                                                    RAMALLAH                            /
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES           Area of main map
                                                                             Bodros                  AL - BIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Afula
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Irbid
                                                                                           Deir Qiddis                                                                                                                                                           32°30’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Jenin
                                                                                                 Kharbatha Bani Hareth                                                                                                                                                                          Hadera
                                                                               Midya                                                                                                                                                                                    Mediterranean                                      Ya'bad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Netanya
                                                                                                                      Ramallah                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tubas
                  To Rehovot




                                                                                              Safa                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tulkarm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sea                                                          Tammun
                                                                                                    Beit Our Tihta                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
                                                                              Beit Sira                   Beit Our Fouqa               Al                                                                                      King                                                                          Qalqilyah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Nablus
                                                                                           Kharbatha                                 Birah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       n R.
                                                                                            Misbah           Tireh                                                                                                            Hussein                                          TEL AVIV-YAFO                                WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jo rd a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bridge
                                                                                              Beit Anan
                                                                                                              Beit Duqqo                                                                Jericho                                                                                                                                                                    Salt
                                                                                                                    Beit Igza                                                                                                                                                                                               BANK                                          32°00’
                                                                                            Im Laem             Qbeibeh J E R U S
                           31°50’                                                                                                                      A L E M                                                                      31°50’                                                                       Ramallah                                        AMMAN
                                                                                                                    Beit Sourik                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jericho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Al Birah
                                                                                                                           Beit Ixxa                                                                                                                                           Ashdod
                To Bene Re'em




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Amman




                                                                                                                                      Mount                                                                                                                                                                  JERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                      Scopus                                                                             King                                                                                                                                  Madaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ashqelon
                                                                                                                   JERUSALEM                    Old City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Abdullah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bridge                                   Area of inset below
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bethlehem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Qiryat Gat

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gaza City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hebron                 Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31°30’                                                                                                   31°30’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yattah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GAZA                ISRAEL
                      To Qiryat Gata




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Zohar
                                                                                                                                   Beit                 Dar Salah
                                                                                                               Bethlehem                          Al-Khas Winnooman                                                                                                     Khan Yunes
                                                                                                                                  Sahour
                                                                                                                            Hindaza                     Shawawrah                                                                                                                                                                                 0            10 KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                      Khalayel Allouz            Beit Tamaar                                                                                                    ARAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0               10 MILES
                           31°40’                                                                                                                                                                                                   31°40’                      OF            34°30’                        35°00’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EGYPT
                                                                                                                                                    Jib Eddeeb
                                                                                                                                        B E T H L E H E M                                                                                                                                       34°20’                                            34°30’

                                                                                                                                            Kisan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JABALYA
                                                                                                                                             Minyah                                                                                                                                                                                                              Qaria el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Beit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lahia               Badawia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mediterranean                                                                         Beit
                   To Qiryat Gata




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To                                                                                                              Jabalia            Jabalia Hanoon
                                                                                                                                 Rashaydeh                                                           Dead           Al Mazra'ah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea                Gaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Seaport
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gaza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     City                                 31°30’
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31°30’

                                                                     Alkoum, Mourik,                     Hebron                                                                                                                                                                                                            GAZA CITY
                                                    To Gaza          Beit Maqdoum
                                                                              Ifqiqis                                                                                                                                                                                                     GAZA
                           31°30’
                                                                   Sikah        Salameh, Wadi Abeid         H E B R O N                                                    To En Gedi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31°30’
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Al-Bureij
                                                                      Tous           Kharsa                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Camp
                                                                     Majd                      Hadab  El-Fawwar                                                                                                                                                                           Deir El Balah
                                          Deir Asal tihta - Iskek               Sorah Tramah, Deir razeh, Wad Shajnah, Hafyer Bitem
                                              Beit Rosh Tihta Deir Asal Foqa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEIR
                                                                                         Khallet eleked, Abdo, Alkataien                                                                                                                                                                                                EL BALAH
                                           Beit Marsam        Beit Rosh Foqa                        Yattah
                                                           Burj, Beirah           Abu  gizlan, Abu Isjga, AbuIslan, abu Isjga                                                                                                                                                            KHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qarara               I S R A E L
                                                                           Raboud Abuirqan                                                                                                                                                                                               YUNIS
                                                                         Zohar                                                                                                                                                                                                   Khan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Younis               Beni Suhaila
                                                           Innab Al-kabirah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               31°20’
                                                       Ramadein                                                                                                                                                                                                   31°20’        Camp Khan           Abasan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Younis      Al-Kabira

                                                        Freijat                                                                                                                                                                                                             RAFAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rafah Camp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rafah
                           31°20’                                                                                                                                                                                                   31°20’                                           Gaza Int’l.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Airport
FEBRUARY 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 35904




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ARAB                                   0              5              10                 15 KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REP. OF                                 0                        5                             10 MILES
                                            To Be'er Sheva'
                  34°50’
                                              (Beersheba)
                                                                        35°00’                                          35°10’                                      35°20’                                35°30’                                                EGYPT                              34°20’                                         34°30’
