Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20660
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24980; 22328)
ONA
CREDIT 24980-GH
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55 MILLION (US$76.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Urban Transport
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/24/2000)
Cufrency Unit = Cedi
I Cedi = USS 0.00022
USS I = 4,500 Cedis
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December I
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRRI           Building and Road Research Intitute
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBD            Central Business District
CDF            Comprehensive Development Framework
DANIDA         Danish Development Agency
DFR           Department of Feeder Roads
DRU            District Road Units
DUR            Department of Urban Roads
ERP           Economic Recovery Program
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
GHA            Ghana Highway Authority
GOG            Govemment of Ghana
GPRTU          Ghana Private Road Transport Union
HSIP          Highway Sector Investment Progran
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            Intemational D,velopment Association
IEPS           Initial Executive Project Summary
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MLGRD         Ministry of Local Govemment and Rurl Development
MMAs          Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies
MMS            Maintenance Management System
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOTC           Ministry of Transport and Communication
MRT           Ministry of Roads and Transport
MTU            Motor Transport Unit
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NMT           Non-Motorized Transport
NMV           Non-Motorized Vehiclo
NRSC           National Road Safety Commission
PER            Public Expenditure Review
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
RSDP           Road Sector Development Program
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SSATP          Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program
UTP            Urban Transport Project
UTPC           Urban Transport Planming Commission
UTU            Urban Transport Unit
VELD           Vehicle Examination and Licensing Departnent
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Poter C. Hmrold
Sector Manager:     Maryvenne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader      Gexhad Tschannedl



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    17
9. P'artner Comments                                                                  18
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000956                                          Project aName: URBAN TRANSPORT
Team Leader: Gerhard Tschannerl                              Tl Unit: AFMGH
IC.R Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 6, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN TRANSPORT                                  LI/CTF Number: 24980; 22328
Counlry./Department: GHANA                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TP - Ports & Waterways; TU - Urban Transport; XX
- Unidentified
KEY DAT'ES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCDI:  09/27/91                                 E.ffeclive:  10/25/93           03/25/94
Appraisal:  11/27/92                                    MTR: 04/30/96                10/18/96
Approval:  05/25/93                                   Closing:  12/31/98            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplemnentin7g 4gency:  Government of Ghana/Ministry of Roads and Transport (MRT) and Department
of Urban Roads (DUR)
Oiher Partners:  Ministry of Finance (MOF); Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development (MLGRD); Metropolitan Assemblies of Accra, Tema, Khumasi,
Sekondi/Takoradi and Tamale
STAFF                 Currelnt                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo                          Kim Jaycox
Country1Manager:      Peter C. Harrold                             Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                  James Wright
Team Leader at ICR:   Gerhard Tschannerl                          Alan Coulthart
ICR Primary Author:   Kingson Apara
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory. U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, ]lU=H1ighly lJnsatisfactorv, H=Hligh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suitainabilitv: L
Institutional Developnment hmpact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Qualitv at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Tine: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to increase the quality and efficiency of urban transport
services, make their delivery more equitable, and sustain the improved level of services. T he project
was also to: (i) improve sector policy development and planning by establishing formal coordination
between the various organizations involved; (ii) increase safety, particularly for pedestrians and the users
of non-motorized transport; and (iii) reduce fuel consumption and air pollution in the cities.
The project was to achieve this objective by rehabilitating roads and transport facilities, improving access
to low income areas, and building capacity in the institutions responsible for policy development, urban
transport planning and maintenance of related infrastructure.
The objective of the project was clear and realistic. It was also consistent with the Government's
urban transport policy, as translated in its Policy Letter, dated April 27, 1993. The project was a
derivative of, and designed to promote this policy, the main thrust of which was to (i) implement more
efficient transport systems within cities, to cope with the growing demand generated by rapid urban
growth; (ii) coordinate the development of urban transport policies and activities through a newly created
Urban Transport Policy Commission (UTPC), and improve the policy, planning and programming
capabilities of urban transport institutions; (iii) decentralize road maintenance activities in all major cities
once the municipal assemblies would have required the relevant expertise and experience; (iv) continue
and expand private sector participation in road maintenance works and transport services at the expense
of force account work; (v) maintain the road fund and make adequate provisions for urban road
maintenance; (vi) make transport services more widely available to the urban poor; and (vii) promote
and implement appropriate environmental mitigation measures in road works, as well as road safety
measures.
The project also fitted very well into the CAS objective for the transport sector, whose main emphasis
was on poverty alleviation, private sector development, and environmental protection. It was to benefit
the urban poor, directly through job creation and improved access to selected low-income areas in the
most populated neighborhoods of Accra, and indirectly through the improvement of the quality and
efficiency of public transport services in the five main cities of Ghana. The project was also to benefit
the private sector by lowering the operating costs of public urban transport (almost entirely of private
ownership) through improvements in road infrastructure and traffic management. Finally, most of the
project was environmentally friendly as its long-term impact was to contribute to safer roads, improved
drainage, and reduction of urban dust and air pollution.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The initial project objectives were maintained throughout implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The following table lays out project components as in the SAR. It also compares cost and physical
achievements with appraisal estimates.
Component                Appraisal    _                   Actual               % Variation
Quantity         Cost         Quantity          Cost       Quantity/Cost
in $m                         in $m
A. Road Rehab    28.50 km          44.13         44.31 km         57.54           55/30
18.07          30.86          33.58           43.41          86/41
Accra CDB         10.43           13.27          10.73           14.04           3/6
Sek/Takoradi
B. Traffic Mgt       NQ             9.77            NQ            0.59           -94/NQ
-2 -



C.Terminal      16 or more        7.77            9            4.05          -44/-49
Rehab
Kumasi          1 or more       1.75       1 (incomplete)     1.38
Accra/Tema         12           4.75            4             1.68
Tamale        not identified    0.30             1            0.41
Sek/Takoradi       3             0.97           3             0.58
D. Access Rds    75.00 km         12.70        40.75 km        10.13          46/-20
and NMV Paths
25.00          9.30          13.00          9.15
Access Rds       50.00           3.40          10.50          0.98
NMV Paths
E. Institutional                  2.68                         0.67          -75/NQ
Strengthening
F. TA and Trng      _             7.68                         8.79          14/NQ
TOTAL               _             84.73                        81.68         3.5/NQ
NQ= Not quantified for brevity; details available in project files.
Source: SAR and February 2000 Impact Study by DUR
Urban Arterial Road Rehabilitation Component (SAR Cost: $44.13 million): The project was to
rehabilitate about 28.5 kilometers of arterial roads in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi. Roads retained for
the project were those with heavy traffic, reputed for severe congestion, particularly during peak hours.
A criterion of selection was also the economic value of a road. Those retained under the project showed
high economic rates of retum (29% on average).
Traffic Management Component (SAR Cost: $9.77 million): This component targeted roads in the
five main cities of Ghana, namely: Accra, Tema, Kumassi, Sekondi/Takoradi and Tamale. It was
intended to complement the road rehabilitation component by establishing (i) multi-phase and linked
traffic signals at critical junctions; (ii) one-way traffic flow; (iii) controlled pedestrian crossings; (iv)
improved road signs and markings; and (v) better regulated parking. This component also included a
$1.8 million allocation for remedial and preventive works at the most accident-prone locations in the five
main cities.
Lorry Terminal Rehabilitation Component (SAR Cost: $7.77 million): The component's SAR target
was to carry out physical improvements on at least 16 transport terminals in the five main cities, in the
form of surface improvements, drainage, access controls, lighting and the provision of shelter, sanitary
and refreshment facilities. A key aspect of the component was the improvement of management and
cost recovery on the targeted terminals. The project was also to provide technical assistance in this
field.
Non-Motorized Transport Component (SAR Cost: $3.4 miilion): The main objective of this pilot
operation was to contribute to the Government's policy of balanced development of transport modes
through the construction of about 50 km of bicycle and push trolley paths, connecting the low- and
middle-income residential areas to commercial and business districts. The paths were to form the initial
phase of an integrated bike path network for Accra. A study was to be conducted under the project to
produce al master plar for the development of a comprehensive network.
Access Roads to Low-income Areas and Markets (SAR Cost: $9.3 million): The purpose of this
component was to connect the seven low-income areas of Accra identified as having the worst problems
of access to main arterial roads. It targeted the rehabilitation of some 25 km of two-lane roads (two-layer
surfacing) and a limited number of storm drains in the low-lying areas.
Training Component (SAR Cost: $7.68 million): This component was to implement a training
program intended to build in-country expertise with the key public institutions ( MOTC, DUR, MLGRD,
TCP).
-3 -



Institutional Strengthening of Central and Local Government Agencies (SAR Cost: $2.68 million):
The project was to improve the capacity of public institutions involved in urban transport by providing: (i)
technical assistance and equipment to the Vehicle Examination and Licensing Department (VELD); (ii)
support to the Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI), the Department of Urban Roads (DUR), and
the Urban Transport Unit (UTU) for the identification of accident-prone areas and the implementation of
accompanying measures; (iii) equipment and training to road safety institutions, including the Motor
Traffic Unit; (iv) technical assistance to enhance DUR's project management capability, as well as staff
housing as a means of retaining quality staff within DUR; and (v) technical assistance and training as
policy support to the planning agencies, notably the Town and Country Planning Department (TCP) and
the Urban Transport Unit.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project design was not altered during implementation, nor were project components revised, even
though project outputs differed substantially from original estimates. As reflected in the table above,
project outputs differed substantially from appraisal estimates. Substantial increases in works were
registered on the Accra road rehabilitation component. They are evaluated at 86% in quantity and 41%
in cost. As illustrated in the above table, the increased cost of this component created serious financing
shortfalls on the other key components of the project. The reasons for and the other issues arising from
changes in appraisal outputs are discussed in Section 4 and in Annex 2 of this report.
3.5 Quality, at Entry:
The project was never selected for QAG review. Nonetheless, the ICR team rates quality at entry
satisfactory, based on an analysis of the information in project files. The assessment is based on (i)
consistency with CAS objectives and Government priorities; (ii) design quality; (iii) the Bank's safeguard
policies; and (iv) appropriateness of risk analysis and mitigation.
Consistency with CAS Objectives and Government Priorities is rated as Satisfactory: By targeting
the urban poor, consolidating the involvement of the private sector in the execution of road rehabilitation
and maintenance works, and seeking to foster environmental protection and safety, the project fitted very
well into the strategic objectives set out in the CAS. A key merit of the project is that it triggered the
implementation of the Government's urban transport policy, whose main focus was to address sector
deficiencies as a contributory effort to overall structural adjustment measures being pursued at the time
under an Economic Recovery Program (ERP).
Conceived when road infrastructure development and rehabilitation were accounting for 50% of the
Government's development budgetary expenditure, the project was ranked among the Government's top
priorities. Its importance was particularly highlighted in the Policy Letter mentioned in Paragraph 3.1
above.
The Quality of Design is rated as Satisfactory: Assessment is based mainly on relevant lessons of
experience taken into account during project design, appropriateness of project approach and
conditionalities.
Project design was based on lessons learned in previous Bank-funded projects in the sector, notably
the Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1854-GH), the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr.
2192-GH), and the Second Urban Project (Cr. 2157-GH). In fact, the last project supported the
preparation of the Urban Transport Project, thus bridging a financial gap caused by the late processing of
a Japanese Grant initially intended for project preparation. A public expenditure review conducted in
December 1991 helped convince the Government to scale down the project to match its financing
capability and to retain for the project only activities of very high socio-economic returns. Project design
also took into account the merging emphasis on beneficiary participation and private/public partnerships
in the transport sector, notably under the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP). It was
particularly influenced by growing concerns by the international donor community over environmental
degradation, and the need for its sustainable protection.
- 4 -



In terms of project approach and conditionality, it is worth praising the design team for anticipating
major delays during implementation, and seeking to minimize such delays by: (i) accomplishing
advance preparation of designs and tender documents for major civil works accounting for 50% of the
project cost at appraisal; (ii) launching pre-qualification for the complex Accra CBD works before project
effectiveness; and (ii) front-loading the project's critical conditionalities, in a bid to having the
Govemment address major policy issues prior to negotiations. Project components were clearly defined,
each of them targeting a particular development objective. Most impact and performance indicators
were quantified at the appraisal stage. Quantification of the remaining few was included as part of
project activities.
Because the project was appraised at a time when arrears owed to road contractors were beginning to
raise serious concerns, substantial efforts were made at appraisal to align the scope of the project to the
borrower's financial capability. This helped to simplify the project and to reduce counterpart funding
needs by 43% from $18.5 million to $10.5 million.
Project risks and institutional weaknesses were properly assessed, and specific measures defined to
reduce their impact on project implementation. These included the strengthening of the implementing
agency with appropriate technical assistance, notably in contract and financial management, the
establishment of an urban transport inter-agency coordination committee to promote and facilitate
inter-agency coordination, an urban transport unit to improve planning, and arrangements to increase
road maintenance budgets. As discussed in Sections 4 and 5 of this report, the expectations on some
of these measures appear to have been either over-optimistic or they were ignored altogether
during implementation. Finally, a key merit of the design approach was the consultative process
adopted throughout the preparatory process. It helped to eliminate institutional differences, thus adding
to the preparedness of implementation.
The Bank's Safeguard Policies: The safeguard measures applicable to the project related mainly to
environmental protection and involuntary resettlement.
The environmental impact assessment of the project was not carried out in the early stages of project
preparation, but was later on completed at the appraisal stage. Adequate mitigation measures resulting
from the assessment were built into road rehabilitation contracts. Although the project was rated B, its
positive contribution to environmental improvements are now visible, notably through reduced air
pollution, improved drainage and reduced floods in low-income areas. In fact, enormous efforts were
made to safeguard trees aligning roads targeted for rehabilitation under the project. This even entailed a
revision of some of the initial designs by the supervision engineer, to lay added emphasis on preserving
existing trees, and planting more where necessary. To further underscore its attachment to preserving
the trees, the implementing agency enriched its team with a tree specialist. Photographs of this aspect
of the project are obtainable in project files. It should be noted that the conservative measures
implemented by the Bank-funded project did not seem to have been generalized, as massive destruction
of trees is reported to have taken place under similar projects financed by other donors. Overall, initial
project design complied with OP 4.01.
Project preparation coincided with the creation of a new Ministry of Environment, to mark the
Government's growing interest in environmental issues, The Government's readiness to address
environmental concerns benefited project preparation, in that it was able to readily commit itself to a
sector environmental policy, and to accept that a specific component be added to the project, to alleviate
floods in low-income areas.
A socio-economic impact assessment conducted in 1998 and updated in February 2000 revealed very
positive results, as discussed in the later parts of this report. The project's practical approach of
combining policy with specific tangible programs to enhance environmental protection is commendable,
and should be replicated to future Bank-funded programs within and out of the sector. In this regard,
the environmental aspect of project design is rated satisfactory.
- 5 -



Involuntary resettlement was minimal under the project, and the few cases of land expropriation
relating to road rehabilitation works were identified at project design and dealt with amicably during
project implementation. Because of the rudimentary nature of the few demolished houses, cash
compensation to the affected persons only amounted to $145,000, and was fully paid as part of the
Government's contribution to the project. The most affected people were indigenous settlers around the
Teshie junction. Other affected families in the area only lost parts of their mud walls, but were satisfied
when the Government reconstructed them in concrete as part of project works.
Although it can be said that the project complied with OP 4.30, it is worth noting that relocation
issues involving some traders at the lorry terminals were not foreseen during project preparation. T he
situation has turned out to be quite penalizing and impoverishing to some 150 occupants of the Kejetia
lorry terminal in Kumasi, and has led to public confrontations between the latter and the Metropolitan
Chief Executive. Though it is reported that the Government and the traders have come to terms on a
new relocation solution, the average annual income loss inflicted on each victim by the 20-month long
conflict has been estimated at Cedis 40 million. The Bank has indicated that further financing of the
uncompleted works at the terminal, through the Urban Environmental and Sanitation Project would be
subject to a priorsolution acceptable to the traders. Despite its adverse effect on the traders, the lone
case of Kejetia does not affect the overall satisfactory rating of the resettlement aspect, for four
reasons: (i) the Kejetia case appears to have been amplified and prolonged by differences between the
representatives of the traders and the Kumasi metropolitan authority; (ii) over 200 other traders in the
same terminal have not been affected; (iii) no such incidence has been observed in the other eight
terminals rehabilhtated under the project; and (iv) the problem is further exacerbated by the activities of
two other infrastructure rehabilitation projects in the area, one funded by OPEC and the other by IDA,
also involving temporary relocation and limiting the number of desirable alternative sites for trading.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, project outcome is rated satisfactory. A project impact assessment, conducted by an
independent consulting firm in February 2000, confirmed that the project would achieve most of its
development objectives, some of which were already very visible at project completion.
The project's contribution to national employment and private sector development was sub
stantial. Civil works contracts under the project generated 64,000 man-months of direct local labor and
paid a total sum of 18.6 billion Cedis as salaries to the local industry. This achievement stems from two
very important factors:
(i) The procurement package adopted for the project allowed as high as 46% of civil works to be
committed through NCB, as well as 621 man-months of local consultant services, as opposed to only 169
man-months for international consultants (a numerical proportion of 5:1). This ratio remained reasonably
high during implementation (4:1). In fact, the Accra CBD contract was the only one supervised by an
international firm, all other works contracts having been supervised by local firms.
While offering the opportunity to tap from the local industry, the project also served as a test of the
latter's capability. The results have been remarkable, given the very high standards of works executed
by a good number of the local contractors. Despite minor weaknesses observed on the road and lorry
terminal rehabilitation components, the project has proven that Ghana now holds a reasonable and
reliable level of technical capacity in the local road industry, both in terms of work execution and
supervision. In this regard, it is recommended that (i) the experience of this project and the track record
registered by local companies and supervision firms be used as a basis for recommending greater
involvement of the local industry in future Bank-funded contracts in infrastructure, and (ii) that future
programs seek to develop this capacity further, with added emphasis on quality control.
The infrastructure rehabilitated under the project is already yielding great economic benefits: vehicle
- 6 -



operating costs on major arteries have dropped by 50% since 1998. Based on surveys conducted as
part of the post-project impact assessment, enhanced mobility, resulting from improved infrastructure
and traffic management achieved by the project, has reduced traffic peak waiting time at major junctions
by close to 75% in Sekondi/Takoradi (from an average of 16 minutes at appraisal to 4 minutes at project
closing), and by 40% on some major arteries in Accra (from an average of 20 minutes at appraisal to 13
at project closing).
Although their financial benefits have not been quantified, public transport operators have reported an
increase in their profits as a result of the substantial increase in turn-around times and reduced traffic
congestion in low-income areas who now enjoy easier access to transport services. The impact on the
low-income urban dwellers would have been even greater if external factor, such as the recent steep
increase in the price of petroleum imports and the increase in the fuel surcharge for road maintenance,
had not led to a 12.5% increase in transport fares.
Other economic benefits include improved road conditions and financial gains resulting from reduced
maintenance costs. Post-project road surveys indicate a marked improvement in the condition of urban
network, particularly in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi. Condition surveys conducted in 1997 and 1999
showed a shift in the condition mix from 24% good, 26% fair, and 50% poor in 1997; to 35% good, 24%
fair, and 41% poor in 1999. The latter figures contrast remarkably with the pre-appraisal situation where
only 5% of the road network was in good condition, 38% fair, and 57% poor.
Accident Reduction: Recent studies conducted by the Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI),
based on data obtained from Ghana Police, indicate a reduction in annual road accidents from 7,254 in
the pre-project era in 1993 to 5,891 in 1998. However, it is too early to draw conclusions from these
figures since BRRI estimates the margin of error of the data to be at least 25%. In fact, other countries
that recently embarked on comprehensive road safety programs, such as Chile, have not been able to
show the substantial improvements suggested by the figures from Ghana. The project's limited
achievement in strengthening accident data collection should be pursued under the RSDP. In addition,
the action plan, elaborated in the BRRI study on accident spot improvements on major urban arteries in
the five main cities of Ghana, should be given priority under the RSDP. Implementation of the action
plan should aim particularly at building sustainable capacity within the National Road Safety Council
(NRSC), to tackle road safety problems with greater efficiency. Such capacity would include road safety
auditing, data collection and analysis, data dissemination and accident prevention management.
A key objective of the project was to improve the living conditions in seven identified low-income areas
in Accra by connecting them to main arterial routes and market centers, and by reducing floods through
drainage improvements. A beneficiary survey, conducted in 1998 and updated in February 2000,
confirmed remarkable benefits accruing from easier access to transport, reduced transport costs,
reduced floods, and improved living standards. It also helped to highlight certain shortcomings and
lessons learned during implementation, as well as the need for continued support through future
programs. Given the successes of the component and the level of unmet needs, particularly on
drainage, it is recommended that the program be pursued as a priority activity under the RSDP.
Although the nine lorry terminals rehabilitated under the project will undoubtedly yield high relurns in the
medium-term, their short-term impact is seriously compromised by an institutional impasse over their
management. The introduction of independent private management of terminals through a competitive
process, stipulated by the project, has either been seriously delayed or abandoned altogether because of
the resistance of the current fee collection and management agencies to relinquish control of the
terminals. Work on eight of the terminals has been completed, but they cannot be put to use because of
the pending management problems. The prolonged closure of the terminals also affects small
businesses that initially operated around them. This general problem is compounded in Kumasi by two
other factors: (i) some 150 traders have not been relocated to appropriate trading sites because of
differences with the municipal authorities; and (ii) works on the terminal have not been completed,
although the original budget allocation has been largely exceeded (see Section 3).
The Government never implemented measures, agreed upon during appraisal, to reduce the risk of not
- 7 -



arriving at a satisfactory management arrangement for the lorry terminals. Given the level of
investments injected into this component, and the need to sustain the maintenance of the rehabilitated
terminals, it is recommended that future Bank financing to lorry terminals be conditioned by satisfactory
implementation of a national policy aimed at promoting cost recovery and private management within all
lorry terminals in the country. In the meantime, an urgent solution needs to be found, notably in the
context of the new Road Sector Development Program (RSDP), for the nine terminals funded by the
Urban Transport Project. These measures would be of particular importance as the road fund does not
cover the maintenance of lorry terminals, which could and should be adequately financed through user
fees.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project's performance in meeting physical targets and outputs is rated satisfactory. Assessment is
based on the extent to which SAR targets were met. As summarized in the table in Paragraph 3.3,
project outputs were as follows:
Road Rehabilitation: The road rehabilitation component was completed and the quality of works has
been rated very highly. Over 44 kilometers of arterial roads were rehabilitated in Accra and
SekondilTakoradi, as against 28.5 kilometers projected at appraisal. It should be noted, however, that
the total mileage of roads rehabilitated in Accra exceeded appraisal estimates by about 86% (see the
table in Paragraph 3.3 above). This was mainly because the Government extended road contracts to
include new roads and also increased the scope of works. Although the Bank finally approved these
additions, it appears that the Government had started implementing them without prior consultation with
the Bank. By failing to seek the Bank's prior approval of the increased works before signing the
corresponding variation orders portrayed a lack of transparency on the part of the borrower agency and
constituted a violation of the Bank's procurement practices.
Another key issue arising from the extra works is the fact that they caused a 30% increase in the
component's cost, which was covered by drastically reducing other critical components, such as traffic
management improvements and accident reduction, lorry terminals, and institutional strengthening. This
in turn reduced the project's planned economic and social benefits to the urban poor. One could say that
the institutional development dimension of the project was sacrificed to the advantage of the civil works .
In addition, some of the roads added to the contract had not undergone economic analysis at project
appraisal (this criticism is mitigated by the high post-project ERR's obtained).
Traffic Management Improvements: These were executed as part of the road rehabilitation contracts.
Their scope was highly reduced as a result of the additional works introduced under the CBD contract
(see table in Paragraph 3.3).
Non-Motorized Transport Paths: Of the 50 kilometers planned, only 10.5 kilometers were executed.
Like the other small components, this component was seriously reduced to accommodate the extra costs
triggered by the additional works on the Accra CBD works. This component seems to have contributed
to curbing pedestrian casualties, but it is too early to assess its impact, given very limited data on road
accidents. A full impact assessment should be carried out under the Road Sector Development Program
(RSDP), with a view to expanding this pilot component.
Rehabilitation of Lorry Terminals: Of the 16 or more terminals planned at appraisal, only eight were
completed satisfactorily (see details in the table in Paragraph 3.3 ). Delays on some of them were
attributable mainly to the weak performance of the contractors and supervising firms. Work on the
Kejetia terminal in Kumasi is expected to be completed with funding from the ongoing Urban
Environmental and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2836-GH). In addition to the shortfall in funding as a result of
the extra works mentioned, another reason for the low output on this component was the inability of the
Metropolitan Assembly in Accra, beneficiary of 10 of the terminals, to resolve land tenure issues relating
to the selected sites.
Access Roads to Low-income Areas: Nineteen kilometers of the planned 25 kilometers were
- 8 -



completed. Overall, the component on access roads and storm drains was satisfactory, though the
quality of works on some of the roads was poor. It also took a longer time than planned to complete the
component. This was essentially due to the poor performance of some of the contractors, as well as
inadequate control by the supervising firms.
Training: The training program was designed to develop skills in subjects being directly addressed by
the project, either in the implementation of project components or in fostering policy development skills.
The training program is rated successful, as it achieved these expectations, and took into account
the emphasis placed at appraisal on in-house and in-country training. A total of some 87 staff were
trained, as compared to 50 projected at appraisal. Nonetheless, it appears to have benefited mainly the
DUR and MRT staff, with insufficient attention to the other institutions initially targeted by the project
(municipal and metropolitan assemblies, Ministry of Local Government, VELD, etc.). For example, the
DUR component trained 68 staff chosen from all profiles available in the department, with 70% of its
allocated training budget. The remaining 30% was reallocated to the road rehabilitation component. The
MRT component overshot its initial training allocation by 260% to train some 14 staff, most of them for
long-term degree programs. Though the imbalance was mainly due to difficulties of coordination
between the implementing agencies and the beneficiary institutions, it raises the question of whether
urban transport projects should be managed by a national line agency like DUR or by local govemment
agencies. Future programs in the sector should establish better implementation arrangements in this
regard, taking account of the ongoing decentralization efforts and the inclusion of sufficient project
management staff who are not in the engineering profession.
Institutional and Sector Policy Development: The project can be said to have been only marginally
successful in achieving its other institutional development objectives, including those defined in the
Govemment's Policy Letter. For example, in addition to the general reduction in the components, the
project was not able to address the issue of cost recovery and sustainable management of lorry
terminals, While it made some progress in devolving programming, budgeting and implementation
functions to municipalities, the key issue of decentralization remains unresolved. There was no effective
reform of DUR to focus its role on policy development/coordination, planning, oversight of standards and
quality control. In addition, aspects of coordination and planning, initially intended to be addressed
through the UTU and the UTPC, were not quite accomplished as the roles assigned to these institutions
durng appraisal appear to have been ignored during implementation.
The limited results tend to be justified by invoking the political sensitivity of some of the measures, even
though they were highlighted in the Government's Policy Letter mentioned above. There is a feeling that
there was no political will to move the reforms forward, and it would seem that the Government had
signed the Policy Letter just to long-term sector efficiency. As such, it is recommended to gradually
address them in the context of future operations, starting with the new Road Sector Development
Program. In addition, it would be important that in future programs the Bank's conditionalities be used as
added leverage to ensuring a balance between physical outputs and institutional development.
Despite the imbalance created by the additional works in Accra and the failure to achieve the institutional
changes mentioned iri the foregoing paragraphs, the benefits likely to be generated by most of the
affected components are quite close to appraisal targets, a factor which further justifies the satisfactory
rating for project outputs.
4.3 Net Present Value/JEconomic; rate of return:
The project's economic viability was measured in the SAR mainly by calculating the economic rate of
return (ERR) of the road rehabilitation component which constituted 65% of project cost. SAR
evaluations yielded a weighted average ERR of 29% on the roads assessed.
A post-project economic analysis conducted, following the methodology of the SAR, confirmed the
economic robustness ofthe project, as it showed an even higher average rate of return of 45% (49%
for Accra arterial roads, 41% for Sekondi/Takoradi roads and 45% for access roads to low income
areas). In fact, sensitivity tests, based on a highly pessimistic scenario Df zero traffic growth and a 50%
-9-



reduction in benefits, still revealed economic rates of return as high as 39% for Accra arterial roads, 32%
for Sekondi/Takoradi, and 36% for access roads.
Economic costs were mainly the discounted cost (at 15%) of rehabilitation works, and routine and
periodic maintenance (without contingencies) on the targeted infrastructure.
Quantified economic benefits were expressed in terms of the monetary value of annual road user cost
savings resulting from improved infrastructure and bettertraffic flow. The cost savings were essentially
derived from reductions in vehicle operating costs (based on average annual daily traffic). Benefits
accruing from savings in peak waiting times in traffic were excluded in the analysis.
It was not possible to quantify rates of retum for the other components of the project. However,
beneficiary surveys, conducted during and after the project, revealed substantial benefits, as described in
Paragraph 4.1 above. Particularly, the surveys in the low-income areas revealed that (i) construction of
primary and roadside drains had reduced the incidence of floods, though a good number of houses
continued to be affected; (ii) housing value in the project area had appreciated as a result of reduced
floods and improved access; (iii) housing construction activity was beginning to intensify in the project
area; and (iv) access to public transport services and to main market centers had improved considerably,
but needs to be increased.
It should be noted that a joint evaluation of the entire road sector is currently being carried out with the
financial support of the Danish Development Agency (DANIDA). It is expected that the evaluation will
provide an overall view of the social and economic impact of all programs implemented in the sector,
including the Urban Transport Project. It is hoped that the joint evaluation, which has a much wider
scope than the analysis carried out for the project, would also provide data on such salient aspects as
benefits accruing to end-users of road and transport systems in general. It is recommended that the
study be reviewed to ensure that it meets these objectives.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Financial Rate of Return was not calculated at appraisal and is considered not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
Institutional development impact is not rated (in accordance with current Bank guidelines). Nonetheless,
it is worth mentioning that the project triggered the decentralization process in the urban roads sector by
devolving more responsibility to decentralized units, even though the results achieved remained below
expectations. While the bulk of project-related procurement took place at the central level, the
management of works and the budgeting functions have been devolved to decentralized units of DUR,
including all procurement financed by the Road Fund. These efforts fell short of the promises made by
the Government in its Policy Letter mentioned above. It is recommended that future programs seek to
consolidate these gains and to advance towards further decentralization to municipalities. This should
enable DUR to focus on policy planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
The experience gained by staff of the project management unit now places DUR in a position to manage
future Bank operations. Of equal importance, and as discussed in Paragraph 3 above, was the project's
contribution to building capacity in the private sector. Post-project assessments have revealed that
Ghana has adequate private sector capacity in the road sector to assume greater responsibilities on
Bank-funded contracts. Future programs should also seek to consolidate and sustain these
achievements, with added emphasis on quality control.
In summary, the main institutional failures of the project were its very limited contribution to the
strengthening of capacity within municipal assemblies, and its inability to build a much-needed coherent
framework to enhance inter-agency coordination. These issues are discussed in detail in Section 5
below, and should be a major focus of the RSDP currently under preparation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
- 1 0 -



5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovermnent or implementing agency:
Project implementationi took place in a generally stable social environment. The general opinion is that
Ghana experienced a deterioration in macroeconomic stability, that was reversed to some degree during
the last two years of the project. The only serious external factor which a ffected project implementation
was the erosion of the local currency, the Cedi. It devalued by about 900%, dropping from a 550:1 parity
to the dollar at appraisal to 4500:1 in April 2000. The accompanying inflation affected contracts in local
currencies, and led to an upward adjustment of some of them. Nevertheless, the exchange gains on the
credit amount were able to neutralize the effects of inflation on overall project financing. Delays resulting
from defaults by contractors were few and had no serious impact on project implementation, particularly
following the extension of the closing date by 12 months.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A key merit was the relative stability in project staff. Even though the directors of DUR were replaced
several times, there was no dislocation in the staffing of the project management unit.
A chronic lack of counterpart funds in the latter part of the implementation period was a serious setback
on the implementation timetable. The resulting slow pace of project activities, compounded by initial
procurernent delays and other difficulties mentioned below, caused a general slippage of about 24
months on the overall project timetable until the last year. While it can be held that the Government was
not able to honor its commitment to release counterpart funds, following a schedule agreed upon at
negotiations, it should also be recognized that the financing percentage of 45% of local costs by the
Governmnent had not been realistic. The subsequent increase of the Bank's financing percentage from
55% to 75% provided a partial solution to the problem. By and large, the project witnessed a
successful completion as the shortfalls were fully paid within a few months of the closing date.
One of thie serious shortcomings in the Government's role was the limited progress, through the project,
in institution building. It happens frequently in development projects that the physical implementation far
outpaces that of the institutional components, and this has been very much in evidence with this project.
Other factors, which have been discussed in detail in other chapters of this report, were: (i) the
institutional impasse in resolving the issues relating to cost recovery and private management of lorry
terminals; (ii) failure by the Government to find a timely solution to the relocation of traders affected by
civil works in lorry terminals, particularly in Kumasi; and (iii) the dislocation of MOTC immediately after
project approval, which turned out to be quite penalizing to the MOTC component (referred to in this
report as the "MRT Component'). A key consequence was that the Urban Transport Unit (UTU) and the
Urban Transport Policy Commission (UTPC) were not able to pursue their intended objective of
establishing coherent coordination among agencies involved in urban transport. In fact, both agencies
appear to have disappeared during implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemnenting agency control:
DUR should be comrnended for its overall good performance in managing this project. This
assessment has been confirmed by Bank staff at various times during implementation. Also, a
procurernent audit carried out by the Bank in May 1998 confirmed the high quality of most civil works
executed under the project and the adequacy of contract management by DUR. In fact, the Accra CBD
Road Rehabilitation contract of close to $43 million has been one of the largest single contracts
implemented under Bank funding in the Region and was, in retrospect, very good value for money in
terms of unit rates, quality of supervision and construction, timely implementation, and impact.
Most fiduciary requirements were discharged in a satisfactory fashion, including the timely
submission to the Bank of activity and audit reports. However, several instances occurred where the
Bank's procurement guidelines were not followed. At times, it issued variation orders or signed
contracts without the Bank's prior
no-objection. This occurred primarily on the Accra CBD contract, where a good number of variation
orders vwere issued without prior review, leading to lengthy exchanges between the agency and the Bank.
Particularly, the extra works executed under this contract impacted negatively on the other key
- 11 -



components, as these were curtailed in order to avoid over-commitment of the Credit.
The drastic reduction in other strategic components of the project, particularly those targeting poverty
reduction in
low-income areas and institutional development, should be seen as a serious implementation weakness.
While the implementing agency should be blamed for it, the Bank supervision team also has to take part
of the blame for not arresting the situation in time.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual and appraisal costs are summarized in the table under Paragraph 3.3 above and in Annex 2.
Changes in outputs as a result of cost changes are equally highlighted in the table. Of particular
significance is an increase in the quantities and costs of the road rehabilitation component, which led to a
reduced scope of other key components, as discussed above.
Project Financing: Project costs were fully financed: 86% by IDA and 14% by the Government (see
Annex 2). The large difference of actual financing figures over appraisal amounts was as a result of
adjustments carried out during implementation on IDA financing percentages for civil works and
equipment (from 55% to 75%). This helped reduce the burden of counterpart funding on the Borrower.
Despite the revision in the Bank's disbursement percentages, the actual contribution of the Borrower still
exceeded the appraisal target by 6%. This was because a good part of the additional works introduced
on the Accra CBD contract, were entirely covered by counterpart funds, following the Bank's decision to
limit disbursements from IDA funds to the agreed revised contract sum in order to avoid
over-commitment of the Credit.
A Japanese grant in the amount of 109.2 million Yen, initially intended to support project preparation,
did not quite achieve this objective due to delays in its effectiveness. It subsequently ran concurrently
with the IDA credit until its expiry date on February 12, 1997. It contributed, inter alia, to the financing of
administrative operating costs of DUR, which had not been included in the project cost estimates at
appraisal.
Implementation and Disbursement Schedules: Project implementation was delayed by about 24
months until the last year, mainly due to: (i) an initial delay of six months in meeting project
effectiveness conditions; (ii) procurement delays on the major works contracts, averaging 12 months; (iii)
the slowed pace of works due to lack of counterpart funding; and (iv) difficulties in displacing traders and
in relocating utility installations at project sites. In fact, the slippage could have been worse had the
preparation for the procurement of initial works, including the pre-qualification for major civil works, not
started prior to effectiveness. Disbursements also lagged behind the SAR schedule throughout the
implementation period. However, the project was able to overcome most of its initial delays during the
last year as a result of (i) the lifting of the obstacles listed above; (ii) increased implementation pace by
the implementing agency; and (iii) the 12-month extension of the closing date. At its closing, the project
was able to disburse 98.4% (SDR 54.1 million of the Credit sum of SDR 55 million).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project Sustainability is rated Likely. Sustainability is assessed essentially in terms of (i) the ability to
maintain the physical infrastructure rehabilitated under the project, which represents 86% of actual
project cost; (ii) political commitment; and (iii) follow-on projects.
Sustainable Road Fund Financing: The road fund is most likely to meet the long-term financing needs
for routine and periodic maintenance of the roads rehabilitated under the project. T he fund has provided
stable and reliable financing for road maintenance since 1997. In 1998 and 1999 the amounts mobilized
under the Road Fund exceeded the budgetary estimates of 180 billion and 219 billion Cedis respectively.
Overall, the fund was able to finance 98% of routine maintenance needs in 1998 and 73% of periodic
maintenance planned for the same year. In the specific case of urban roads, 99% of routine
-12-



maintenance needs were met, and 83% of planned periodic maintenance executed. Projections adopted
for the next five years show that the road fund will be able to fully finance the maintenance (routine and
periodic) of Ghana's entire road network by 2003. Roads rehabilitated under the project will only need
minor routine maintenance until 2005. The encouraging results of the road fund combine with improved
programming, as work plans are now available at the beginning of the work season, thus ensuring the
complete use of funds disbursed for road maintenance.
Since its restructuring in 1996, the Road Fund Secretariat has established a track record of good
management and accountability. These values are expected to be upheld for quite some time, given the
political and social sensitivity of road issues in Ghana, and the common interest of the donor community
in overseeing the performance of the Road Fund.
Political Commitment: Another consideration on which the sustainability rating is based is the
Government's historical attachment to road infrastructure development. The political value attributed to
a good road network is very high in Ghana. The Government has set a target to stabilize the road
condition mix at 70% good, 20% fair, and 10% poor by the year 2005. This target is backed by a
five-yeair investment program, for which support is sought through the RSDP now in preparation.
A staff housing scheme introduced in earlier projects, and pursued under the UTP, is expected to provide
adequate incentives to retain trained staff, particularly in Accra and Tema where housing costs are very
high.
Follow-on Projects: The RSDP, scheduled for appraisal in June 2000, will provide a continuous link
with the project. The preparation of the program took into account lessons leamed from the project and
from the ongoing Highway Sector Investment Project (Cr. 2858-GH), and will seek to pursue and expand
most of their activities, while laying particular emphasis on the policy and institutional development
aspects which, as noted earlier in this report, were not quite successful under the project.
The only area of concern, as discussed in Paragraph 3, is the transport terminals (so-called lorry
terminals) for which appropriate cost recovery and management systems still have to be established.
Preparatory work for the selection of a private operator, through competition, for some of the terminals is
still going on. As a result of the experience with the rehabilitation of transport terminals under UTP, MRT
decided not to finance the rehabilitation of terminals in future until the current impasse over the right to
manage them has been resolved.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Metropolitan Assemblies of the project cities will take over responsibility for the routine and periodic
maintenance of all infrastructure rehabilitated by the project (including traffic improvement structures and
non-motorized transport paths), immediately following the expiry of all defect liability periods. A field
visit by the ICR team confirmed that the assemblies are already in charge of the routine maintenance of
access roads in low-income areas, including accompanying storm drains and lorry terminals. It must be
emphasized that even when decentralized, most of road rehabilitation and maintenance would not be
done by force account, but would continue to be contracted out to the private sector, as is the case now.
DUR is due to move to its new offices (constructed as part of the civil works component of the project for
Cedis 2.2 billion) by June 2000, and will assume responsibility over the building. It will continue to
assume overall monitoring and evaluation functions over urban road infrastructure development and
ensure that lessons learned are adequately reflected in the Government's development agenda. In this
regard, DUR is expected to undergo a profound restructuring to expand its role beyond urban roads to
cover other forms of urban transport and related infrastructure, and to focus on policy development and
implementation, quality control, planning, and coordination.
Given the relatively high impact of road accidents on human lives and property, and the poor
performance of the existing institutions in discharging accident management functions, it is highly
recommended to revive the NRSC under the new RSDP, so that it can sustainably build a reliable and
- 13-



efficient system aimed at drastically reducing accident occurrence on Ghanaian roads.
In light of the new role of DUR, and to ensure that it discharges its monitoring and evaluation functions
objectively, it is hoped that every effort will be made to accelerate the pace of decentralizing budgetary,
programming, procurement and implementation functions to the metropolitan and municipal assemblies
(MMAs). In this regard, it is recommended to carry out an in-depth assessment of existing capacities for
road rehabilitation and maintenance and related works in the assemblies. The assessment, and
appropriate targets to implement its recommendations, should be part of RSDP. Also, to prepare DUR
for its new role, training programs intended under RSDP should aim at strengthening its capability in
urban transport planning, monitoring and evaluation.
Current organizational plans in the sector envisage that MRT will continue to develop and foster the
implementation of the Govemment's policy in the road and transport sectors, with increased focus on
ensuring global financing and budgetary coherence, coordination of its three main agencies (GHA, DFR,
and DUR), and coordination of donor support to the sector. It will also oversee the performance of the
Road Fund and ensure that its resources are efficiently applied to road maintenance.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's performance at lending is rated satisfactory. The only omission on
environmental aspects during the identification of the project was overcome at appraisal. Nonetheless,
the Bank's rating is affected by its failure to detect and arrest the imbalance created in project
components by the additional works introduced under the Accra civil works contracts (see Section 4).
Macroeconomic and CAS Concerns: It is worth noting the degree to which macroeconomic
considerations guided project design. In this regard, the Bank's team should be commended for placing
project preparation in the overall context of the Government's public expenditure program, by playing a
major role in the conduct of a pre-project Public Expenditure Review (PER), which helped uncover
underlying financial weaknesses, including arrears owed to contractors, as well as the Govemment's
limited financial capacity to contribute to a bigger operation. The project's consistency with CAS
objectives has already been mentioned in earlier parts of this report.
Consultative and Broad-based Approach: A key element worth recognizing is the consultative and
broad-based approach adopted in the early stages of project design, which led to defining a
comprehensive policy framework for urban transport. The first of its kind, the policy was prepared by
staff drawn from all agencies involved in the sector, including donors and private sector representatives.
The preparatory work was done mostly in the form of in-county seminars, thus building an awareness
which eventually led to a speedy adoption of the policy. Though not implemented to satisfaction, the
policy had been prepared based on experiences learned elsewhere, particularly in Montreal and Cuba on
non-motorized transport.
Implementation Preparedness: 1 he Bank's team equally deserves praise for seeking to minimize
project implementation delays, and ensuring greater implementation preparedness by: (i) advocating for
advance preparation of designs and tender documents for major civil works, accounting for 50% of the
project cost at appraisal. Upstream design and pre-qualification of key works resulted in considerable
time savings during implementation. In addition, the wide range of information produced and analyzed
at appraisal led to an evaluative framework which, on the whole, facilitated subsequent project
supervision. Most of the process and performance indicators were clearly defined. Those that were not
readily quantifiable during appraisal were built into project activities, and expected to be updated during
implementation; (ii) encouraging the launching of pre-qualification for the works before project
effectiveness; (iii) front-loading the project's critical conditionalities, in an attempt to having the
Government address major policy issues prior to negotiations; and (iv) catching up on all Bank safeguard
measures during appraisal. A major contributory factor to achieving the above objectives was the
- 14-



simplicity of the project design.
Efficiency and Client Focus: Also, the quality of dialogue established by the team with its Ghanaian
counterparts, complemented by a sound identification, helped save time and money, as the rest of the
preparation process was put in top gear. The Bank's Management responded positively to the team's
request to skip the departmental review because no particular issue had surfaced during the IEPS
review. However, judging from the outcome of the project, particularly from the limited successes in
implementing the policy aspects to which the Govemment committed itself, it could be said that the
Bank's team misjudged the Govemment's commitment to the Policy Letter, adopted as part of project
conditionalities, and did not do much to enhance the mitigation measures on the salient aspects
mentioned in the earlier parts of this report.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance at supervision is rated satisfactory.
Staff in-put and Regularity in Supervision: Project supervision (including the ICR mission) took a
total of 128. With an average supervision input of 21 staff weeks a year, the project can be said to have
received greater attention than most projects in the region, where average yearly supervision takes 15
staff weeks. The Bank staff should be commended for the regularity of project supervision and the high
profile of staff involved (see supervision calendar and other input details in Annex 4). In the six years of
project implementation, the task manager was replaced three times. The last replacement, which took
place a year to project closing, was well perceived by the Government as the new task manager was
based in the field office.
Monitoring and Evaluation: A key element of supervision was the comprehensive procurement review
of the $43 million contract for Accra CBD works in May 1998. The independent review, which is to be
seen in the context of the Bank's monitoring and evaluation efforts, confirmed the high quality of works
being executed, but pointed out a risk of over-commitment. It was quite useful, as the Bank's team was
able to reach an agreement with the Government on limiting additional works, thus avoiding a major
over-commitment on the Credit. In addition, the Bank's hard stand that the project would not be
extended unless counterpart funds were released up-front, paid off as the Govemment was able to
disburse the required amounts before project closing.
An area where the Bank's team showed considerable weakness was its failure to detect and arrest the
extra works registered under the Accra CBD contract in a timely fashion. The firm stand it consequently
took in 1998 on the issue came rather late (see Paragraph 7.1 above), though it still helped to limit the
damage that might have been caused with respect to over-commitment or further reductions on other
key components. This has influenced the ratings for Bank supervision and Government implementation
performances, which would otherwise have been rated highly. Even though the poverty reduction impact
of the project is likely to remain high, it could have been even higher had the imbalance been avoided.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the foregoing, overall Bank performance was satisfactory. Its interventions helped bring the
project back on track and to a satisfactory conclusion.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The assessment made of the Bank's performance in the foregoing paragraph is equally valid for the
Government, given the symbiotic nature of the dialogue that characterized project preparation. T he
Borrower's performance at preparation is also rated satisfactory. The Govemment should be
commended, particularly for establishing a broad-based approach which facilitated project preparation
and helped minimize team differences. The participatory approach was particularly marked by in-country
workshops which led to the speedy adoption of a comprehensive policy for urban transport. Though the
policy framework was not adequately implemented during the project, it still remains a valid basis for
pursuing structural changes in the sector.
- 15 -



7.5 Government implementalion performance:
The Government is rated essentially on counterpart funding and on the degree to which it implemented
policies laid out in its Policy Letter. On this score, it performed rather marginally.
Counterpart Funding: The chronic lack of counterpart funds in the last two years of the project was a
serious setback for the implementation timetable. W hile it can be held that the Government was not
able to honor its commitment to release counterpart funds, following a schedule agreed upon at
negotiations, it should also be pointed out that the financing percentage of 45% of local costs by the
Government had not been realistic. This was rectified during implementation by stepping up the Bank's
financing percentage from 55% to 75%.
Sector Policy Development: The Government accomplished some of the key actions it had agreed to
in its Policy Letter: (i) more than 80% (target set at appraisal) of road maintenance is now done through
contracting to private contractors, maintenance under force account having been reduced to small
emergency work; (ii) the road fund was restructured in 1996 to provide sustainable financing to road
maintenance, and is producing commendable results, as mentioned in Paragraph 6 above; and (iii) the
Government has courageously defied popular opinion and has increased fuel levies, as part of an
ongoing effort to sustain road maintenance. However, its limited action on the following aspects, which
have been discussed in earlier parts of this report, reduced project impact:
e  The institutional impasse in resolving the issues relating to cost recovery and private management of
lorry terminals has caused the closure of the rehabilitated terminals, even though work has been
completed on most of them. In addition, the lack of a solution to the land tenure issues encountered
in Accra during implementation, contributed to the reduced scope of this component, as only four of
the 10 planned terminals were rehabilitated;
D  Failure by the Government to find a timely solution to the relocation of traders affected by civil works
in the Kejetia lorry terminal in Kumasi is penalizing on the traders; and
o  The dislocation of MOTC immediately after project approval, can be said to be misplaced focus on
the institutional components of the project, particularly the planning and coordination aspects. A key
consequence was that the Urban Transport Unit (UTU) and the Urban Transport Policy Commission
(UTPC) were not able to pursue their intended objective of establishing coherent coordination among
agencies involved in urban transport. In fact, both agencies appear to have disappeared during
implementation. While these omissions can be regretted, it is worth noting, however, that the
dislocation of MOTC has been perceived positively, given that it enabled all transport functions to be
devolved to the single Ministry of Roads and Transport (MRT).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementation agency performed satisfactorily. It could have scored a highly satisfactory rating
had it not been the additional costs incurred on the road rehabilitation component, avoidable delays in
some procurement cases, and a few cases where the Bank's prior review was not sought on contracts
and variation orders.
High Quality of Works: DUR should be commended for its high standards in managing this project.
This assessment has been confirmed by Bank staff at various times. Also, an elaborate procurement
audit, carried out in May 1998, confirmed the very high quality of most civil works executed under the
project. In fact, the Accra CBD Road rehabilitation contract of close to $43 million was one of the largest
single contracts implemented under Bank funding in the region, and was actually very good value for
money in terms of unit rates, quality of construction, timely implementation and impact. It was a
remarkable accomplishment for DUR.
Fiduciary Requirements: Most fiduciary requirements were discharged in a regular fashion, including
the timely submission to the Bank of activity and audit reports. However, a serious concem attributable
to the implementing agency were several instances where it violated Bank procurement practices , at
times issuing variation orders or signing contracts without the Bank's prior no-objection. For example, on
- 16-



the Accra CDB contract, a number of varation orders were issued without prior Bank review, which led to
lengthy exchanges between the agency and the Bank. In addition, the additional works executed beyond
those stipulated in the contract detracted significantly from the other key components, as they were
curtailed in order to avoid over-commitment of the Credit (see Paragraph 3.3).
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Overall, the Borrower performed satisfactorily. The Government's limited performance was balanced
by the good performance of the implementing agency, and further minimized by the good achievements
registered by the project at the end.
8. Lessons Learned
General Lesson: Overall, the project was well designed and performed well. The roads constructed
under the project showed high and robust economic returns, and overall project objectives are likely to
be achieved, despite the extra civil works carried out in Accra and the significant shortfalls in
implementing the institutional components. The project also revealed key limitations of the project
approach, as opposed to the program approach, thus underscoring the need to place urban transport
development in an integrated context. In this regard, the shift to a program focus, in the context of the
follow-up Road Sector Development Program (RSDP), is tmely. In addition to consolidating the gains
achieved by the project, the RSDP should include well-developed monitoring and evaluation
arrangements in the context of the Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF). It is anticipated
that the joint evaluation of the road sector in Ghana, initiated in April 2000 with Danida financing, will be
a good starting point for a permanent and efficient evaluative framework for the road sector as a whole.
Local Capacity: A key lesson from the project is the level of technical capacity available locally in
Ghana. Much concem had been expressed during project preparation about the limited capacity, both
within the Government agencies and in the road industry. The project has helped to dissipate these
fears and has contributed to building capability in the private sector on which future programs can rely.
Of equal significance is the fact that DUR and MRT were able to implement the project without the
standard "stand-alone" project management units (PMUs), thus proving their capability to implement
Bank-funded projects in an integrated environment. The decision, taken in the context of the new RSDP
to discontinue the existing Accounting and Management Information Systems Unit (AMISU) in favor of
an integrated program management approach within MRT and its agencies, is a timely application of this
lesson. As mentioned in Section 7, road maintenance programming has improved substantially in the
last two years. The new program should focus on consolidating these gains, while adding emphasis on
improving the planning and management capacity within MRT and its agencies, including monitoring and
evaluation, as well as continuing to foster private sector capacity through targeted training to local
contractors and supervising firms.
Implementation Preparedness: The fact that key issues were addressed early during project
preparation, designs were completed, and prequalification and tendering were at an advanced stage
before effectiveness, allowed project implementation to start without delay. Had this not been the case,
the delays that occurred later on would have been even more severe.
Project Approach vs. CDF: The Government's limited performance in addressing most of the policy
issues to which it committed itself under this project portrays the limitations of the project approach in
addressing structural changes. As indicated above, the introduction of the program approach in the
context of the CDF is timely, and should help to apprehend the problems of the transport sector in their
wide dimension, and in the overall context of the country's economic capability. In addition, program
design should take into account the views and experiences of beneficiaries and stakeholders. In this
regard, the following lessons expressed in the Borrower's contribution to the ICR (Section 9) would be of
primary importance to future programs:
* The need for increased interaction with, and the education of beneficiary communities during project
design, with a view to ensuring that (i) they understand and subscribe to new roles being assigned to
them in project operations; (ii) they understand and accept new concepts such as the non-motorized
transport schemes; (iii) sensitive externalities like the relocation of utilities and underlying
- 17 -



cost-sharing arrangements are concluded in advance to urban civil works; and (iv) beneficiary
assemblies and other local agencies accept and provide enough evidence committing themnselves to
proper and sustainable management of infrastructure, like transport terminals, to be rehabilitated by
a project.
* The need to carefully determine the level of counterpart funds based on the Borrower's financial
capability, and to implement stringent measures to minimize effects of counterpart funding shortfalls
on project execution.
Imbalance in Project Components: As noted in Section 5, a key lesson of this project was the
dislocation caused to the project spread as a result of the reductions made on the institutional
development and poverty alleviation aspects in favor of the civil works on major arterial roads. Future
Bank-funded projects should not only seek to establish the appropriate balance in project spread during
design, but should, more importantly, make sure that such balance is maintained during implementation.
Equity in Transport Systems: Finally, the project has shown the need for a more equitable distribution
of infrastructure and urban transport services to urban dwellers, with emphasis on the urban poor. Its
focus on access roads to the low-income areas has not only brought about better transport services, but
also is expected to improve the living standard of the affected population.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the Borrowers UN-EDITED contribution:
1.0    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
1.1    Project Objectives
The project continued IDA's program of support to Ghana in its Economic Recovery
program (ERP) particularly in the roads sector. The project was a logical follow up of
initiatives began underthe following projects.
-      Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) - Cr 1564GH
-      Priority Works Project (PWP) - Cr 1874 GH
-      Urban II Project - Cr2157 GH
The 4 key development objectives of the project were:
-       -To increase quality and efficiency of urban transport services.
-      XTo sustain levels of improvement in urban transport services by supporting the
institutional        needs of key service delivery agencies.
*      ~To make service delivery more equitable by addressing the mobility needs
of vulnerable groups.
-      To improve sector development and planning.
1.2    Project Components
The objectives of the project were to be achieved through the following
components:
1.2.1   Department of Urban Roads (DUR) administered components
a.     Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Management Improvements in Accra
and Sekondi-Takoradi.
b.    Transport Terminal rehabilitation in 5 project cities.
c.    Improvement of Accesses to low-income areas in Accra.
d.     Construction of pilot non-motorized path network in Accra.
e.     Procurement of equipment for the institutional strengthening of the
Metropolitan / Municipal Roads units.
f.     Technical Assistance support and training.
1.2.2  Ministry of Roads and Transport (formerly Ministry of Transport &
communications) components.
a.     Procurement of Equipment for Institutional strengthening of
VELD, BRRI, NRSC and MTTU Technical Assistance and Training
- 18 -



b.    Policy support in the form of one Transport Planning Advisor, one
Road Safety Advisor and various short - term specialists
c.    Project preparation and Implementation support
-     Design and Implementation of development control system
for Town and Country Planning Department (TCPD)
d.     Building works for VELD in Tamale
-     Management Consulting for MMA parking units
-     Institutional Development
-     Training for UTU, VELD, BRRI, NRSC, MTTU, TCPD and
MLG
2.0    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.1    Attainment of Objectives
Objective 1 -To increase quality and efficiency of urban transport services
Vital sections of the arterial road network in Accra and Sekondi-Takoradi were
rehabilitated to very high standard. Effective Traffic Management schemes and one-way
systems were implemented to enhance the efficient use of road space and improve
traffic flow in the respective central business districts. These improved the level of
service of links and intersections, segregated pedestrians from motorists and generally
provided traffic calming and safety measures. Intersection capacities on 9 key roads in
Accra increased by between 41%-272% over the 1995 figures. In Accra travel speeds
increased by between 54% and 233% with a corresponding delay reduction of up to
100%. In Sekondi-Takoradi average speed similarly increased by up to 42% after
rehabilitation works time delay also reduced by reduction of between 23% and 100%.
The reduced travel times on the rehabilitated arterials and other key CBD roads are
expected to increase the turnaround times of transit vehicles with corresponding
increases in profit for operators.
The provision of non-motorized transport paths walkways, and crosswalks in Accra along
the major road corridors is expected to enhance the safety of NMT users and encourage
more people to adopt it as their preferred means of movement over short distances,
particularly in the CBD. This should reduce congestion and environmental pollution
associated with such journeys.
Objective 2 -To sustain levels of improvement in urban transport services by
supporting the institutional needs of key service delivery agencies
Through excellent training opportunities, both implementing agencies were able to
upgrade and substantially enrich its manpower resources. DUR trained 68 staff covering
the full spectrum in the Department and utilizing 70% of the budget. MRT concentrated
on training middle staff for masters programs. In this case 68% of proposed staff were
trained with 360%  over budget. Training support catered for 14 staff. An Urban
Transport Unit within the MRT was established with the recruitment of an Urban
Transport Advisor. Various studies implemented under his supervision included:
i.    study on better management of Terminals
ii.    study on parking management for Accra, Kumasi & Sekondi-Takoradi
iii.   study on regulatory options for improving terminals
iv.    road safety and VELD restructuring study.
However, the proposed Road Safety Advisor was not recruited and most of the activities
to be co-coordinated by him were not executed. This included the implementation of a
road safety program aimed at pedestrians and other NMT users. Various office and field
measurement and testing equipment were procured for BRRI, TCPD, MTTU, NRSC and
VELD to enhance efficiency.
The development control and information system designed and implemented for TCPD,
has greatly reduced time for processing permit applications. Field operations and
- 19 -



monitoring vehicles were also purchased to improve efficiency.
The project strengthened BRRI by improving its capacity in the collection, analysis and
compilation of accident statistics for policy formulation.
The equipment procured for VELD has improved the driver and vehicle testing
capabilities of the staff. It has also enhanced the compilation of statistics on vehicle
registration.
The project strengthened NRSC in the publicity of road safety issues in the country.
Road safety publicity and awareness programs have now been instHtuted in the 1st and
2nd cycle schools.  Campaigns are held periodically to educate road users. This is
promoted through the electronic and print media.
The MTTU was provided with short-term training in road traffic laws enforcement.
Equipment procured has also enabled highway patrols to check over speeding and drunk
driving.
DUR benefited from direct Technical Assistance support in the form of the following:
i.    Contract Management Specialist who developed project management
manuals for contract administration and assisted in the resolution of
claims on major development projects.
ii.   Quality  Control Specialist who  reviewed  the  existing  MRT
specifications bringing them in line with urban conditions. Training for
the Metropolitan road units laboratory personnel was also undertaken.
iii.    NMT expert who developed policy standards for the pilot project ahd
ensured that ongoing development project included appropriate NMT
facilities. A sociologist promoted the concept through user plafforms
and public education in the area communities.
iv.    A maintenance management system was developed to assist DUR in
the planning, budgeting, and monHtoring of road maintenance works. The
design and installation of the system suffered considerable delay due to
problems associated with the collection of input data. The final product
will have to be reviewed in future projects to merit its usefulness.
Presently, contracts to privatize the data collection is ongoing.
v.    A  Municipal Engineer developed an infrastructure co-ordination
manual for the control of works by related agencies within the Right of
way  (ROW).   Regular meetings  of the  various  Engineering
Co-coordinating Teams (ECT) has been instituted in the cities and has
greatly assisted in managing utility infrastructure developments.
vi.    An Organisation and Management Study for DUR was completed
fairly timely. However, the initial output was not satisfactory. This was
reviewed with local inputs at the expense of the consulting firm.
Equipment procurement for DUR and DRU's, as detailed in the SAR, was not done on
account of a policy change to award routine maintenance works on contract to the
private sector. Additionally, the road units found their existing equipment holding
sufficient for emergency activHties.
Objective 3 -To make service delivery more equitable by addressing the mobility
needs of vulnerable groups
Transport service delivery has been made more equitable through the commissioning in
January 2000 of dedicated routes for non-motorsed transport in Accra. It is expected
that benefits will be realized in the form of:
i.    cost savings for NMT users,
ii.    enhanced safety for NMT users,
- 20 -



iii.   reduced cost of transportation for low income dwellers, on account of the
improved accessibility to their homes, and
iv.    Increased revenue for bicycle retailers.
It is also noted that walkways developed alongside the rehabilitated arterials in the CBD
have encouraged more people to use it as a preferred mode of movement, primarily due
to safety considerations.
The improvement of access to 7 low income communities in Accra resulted in numerous
socio-economic benefits as detailed in a baseline study conducted in September 1998
and updated in December 1999. These include:
i.    reduction in the cost of penetrating the communities to do business,
ii.    increased social interaction of the residents with those
in other parts of the city,
iii.   improved mobility of social service providers including teachers and
primary health care practitioners,
iv.    drainage works undertaken to some extent reduced the stress
associated with floods
v.    improvement in property values, and
vi.   reduced cost of transportation on account of improved accessibility to
the homes of residents.
Objective 4 - To improve sector development and planning
Improvement in manpower resources increased awareness and developed procedures
for maintenance planning. The setting up of the road fund is a step to ensure adequate
finance for maintenance projects. Interest in the private sector to undertake
complimentary investments in the development of commercially operated car parks such
as the multi-story facility on High Street has been due in part to the environment and
demand created by effective traffic management measures.
Availability of GOG counterpart funds was frequently delayed under the project. This
resulted in interest payment to Contractors thus increasing the overall cost of works.
Unsatisfactory results were manifested in:
i.    the arrangements for private sector control and management
of rehabilitated terminals. The current trend however suggests that
some Assemblies have initiated positive steps to utilize private
management services.
ii.    very low utilization of some of the facilities procured to assist
regulation in the sector such as equipment for vehicle examination
and licensing.
2.2.   Physical Outcome of Components
2.2.1 DUR Administered Components
Road and Traffic Management Improvement works in Accra and Sekondi-Takoradi
consisted of the construction of the about 30 km and 12 km respectively of
asphaltic-surfaced roads. These were to facilitate movement within the respective
Central Business Districts. The Accra project recorded a 42% overrun due mainly to
additional utility relocations, claims, escalation in material prices and additional work
necessitated primarily by safety considerations. Quality of work was highly satisfactory.
In Sekondi - Takoradi the 28% overrun was due to escalation in prices and variation
orders for changes in scope of works.
10.5 km of dedicated non-motorised transport routes in Accra were constructed along the
Ring Road and Graphic roads in 3 projects. One route facilitated North-South movement
between the predominantly high bicycle-user community of Nima and the CBD. The
projects were completed with minimal cost overrun except for lot 2 where the overrun
- 21 -



recorded accounted for additional safety works done on the Nima drain section.
Appropriate traffic safety measures have been provided at pedestrian - vehicular
intersections.
Provision of 12.5 km of access roads including ancillary features to 7 low-income areas
of Accra resulted in direct transportation, economic and social benefits to residents.
Significant time and cost overruns were recorded in all 10 projects. Quality of works was
generally unsatisfactory especially for the drainage works. A further 12.5 km of designed
roads in these areas were not constructed due to budgetary constraints.
Rehabilitation of 9 transport terminals have been substantially completed in the 5 project
towns. Quality of work done was satisfactory with minimal cost overruns. However time
overruns between 20% - 50% occurred as a result of problems of unsuitable soils,
relocation of terminal occupants and Contractors poor planning and management of the
works.
3 awarded terminals were not constructed due to problems of availability/ownership of
land and issues on relocation of transport operators during construction.
8 Projects aimed at providing accident - reduction facilities along key roads in 4 project
towns were undertaken. These included road humps, lay byes and thermoplastic lane
marking. Works were of satisfactory quality and completed with minimal time overruns.
2.2.2 MRT Administered Components
MRT benefited from the services of an Urban Transport Adviser for 3% years. He
developed an implementation support program and provided advice on urban transport
and roads safety issues. On-the-job training was also provided to the counterpart staff of
MRT.
Under policy reform, MRT engaged consultants to undertake various studies designed to
restructure the urban transport sector. These included studies on car parking in 5 main
cities and management of Lorry parks and terminals to be constructed under the project.
A design and Implementation development Control system for Town and Country
Planning Department was developed. This has improved efficiency and reduced the
issue of permits from 3 months to 2 weeks.
An office and testing station for the Tamale VELD was completed in 1998. The facility
has greatly assisted in driver vehicle and licensing activities in the Northern Region. The
proposed management consufting for the MMA parking unit was not implemented due to
non co-operation from MLG.
Training was varied and benefited 14 personnel from the UTU, VELD BRRI, NRSC,
MTTU, and TCPD.
3.0.         MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECTS
3.1    Factors outside Government control
i.    The fall in the water level in the Volta Lake led to power shortages. This
adversely affected the production and availability of cement in 1998.
ii.    Poor contractor performance in the area of planning and quality of work led to
extensive time and cost overruns especially improvement of accesses to low -
income areas in Accra.
iii.    Consultants' design and supervisory performance, on certain projects such as
NMT and terminal rehabilitation resulted in frequent design changes with
adverse cost implications.
- 22 -



3.2    Factors subject to Government control
i.     Failure to make timely release of counterparl funds resulted
-      Payment of interest on delayed invoices to aggrieved Contractors.
-      Time overruns of Contractor's works progress.
-      Extension of the credit closing date by 12 months.
ii.    Failure to make available terminal sites in Accra led to 3 designed and awarded
projects unable to take off.
3.3    Factors Outside Implementation Agencies Control
i.     Delays in civil works due to the utility agencies inability to promptly relocate or
remove        their services during the main works.
3.4    Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies Control.
i.    Inadequate co-ordination between the 2 key agencies led to low level of activity
reporting particularly on the MRT component.
ii     Lack of cooperation between the UTU and MLG led to certain activities not being
implemented.
4.0    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The rehabilitation of 42 km of roads in Accra and Sekondi-Takoradi were 2 projects of high
visibility achieved with high technical standards and specifications. This investment is likely to
be sustained over time with the current drive to reduce traffic congestion, decrease accident
occurrences and reduce vehicle-operating costs along the major arterials in the cities.
The sustainability of the works in the 7 low-income areas of Accra appears certain with regards
to project visibility, reduction in transport costs and vehicle operating costs. However in the area
of flooding and termination of secondary drains at appropriate outfalls sustainability can only be
achieved after a detailed drainage study of affected areas has been undertaken for future
schemes.
The provision of Non-Motorised paths along key arterials has been established as part of the
investment necessary for any urban road infrastructure. Its sustainability is certain. However
there is the need to increase publicity and ensure safety on the usage of the paths.
Sustainability on the rehabilitated transit terminals is dependent on the private management of
the facilities to assure cost recovery.
Institutional support to DUR included the provision of a new head office block. This will serve as
a focal point for policy co-ordination and monitoring of urban road transport infrastructure in the
future decentralized setting of the sector.
Support for road maintenance under the road fund and the Institutional capacity built in DUR and
Metropolitan I Municipal Road units provide a sound basis for the sustenance of the investments
in road rehabilitation and maintenance.
5.0    BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance on the project was satisfactory. Through its supervision missions it
provided opportunity for discussions and review of project components. In 1998 the Bank
provided valuable assistance in obtaining outstanding counterpart funds from Central
Government. This issue threatened to curtail and delay the completion of the project.
6.0    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Both implementing agencies responded positively to technical assistance packages provided
under the project. Audit reports were submitted promptly from DUR; those from MRT were
delayed for the last 2 years of the project. Regular progress reports were also submitted to all
stakeholders.
- 23 -



7.0    FUTURE OPERATION
A follow-up project to the ongoing HSIP known as the Road Sector Investment Project has been
discussed with the Bank and will be appraised in 2000. This project will continue to support urban
transport infrastructure rehabilitation and institutional development.
8.0    KEY LESSONS
-      Future Urban Projects should increase interaction with beneficiary communities to
educate them on the limits of projects and their respective roles.
-      Advance publicity and education campaign is necessary to prepare the public for new
concepts such as NMT schemes and facilities. Operation of the facilities requires the
definition of a role for law enforcement agencies.
-      Relocation of utility services prior to the main contract reduced delays and minimized
costs.  However an arrangement for cost sharing should be developed with all
stakeholders involved in the provision of infrastructure within the Right - of- way.
-      Future consideration for terminal rehabilitation should ensure that there is enough
evidence that the recipient assemblies control the terminals and have power and
commitment to introduce cost recovery measures.
-      Levels of Govemments matching funds for projects must be carefully determined if
projects are not to be adversely affected by GOG funding constraints. Timely release of
counterpart funds will reduce unnecessary costs associated with delayed payments for
contracts.
-      Future projects should detail arrangements for financing necessary activities to be
undertaken after the credit closing date.
-      An urban public transport policy should be developed in future projects with inputs from
stakeholders to ensure effective usage of the roadway thus reducing congestion together
with its associated disadvantages.
-      Regular training for contractors and consultants should be sustained to improve work
quality in the urban road sector.
-      A liaison should be established with relevant agencies to update maps required for urban
planning and design.
-      Issues on decentralization with regards to roads and transport should continue to be
dialogued with MLGRD to ensure that roles and responsibilities of implementation
agencies are clearly spelt out to avoid duplication ensure that and standards I
specifications are maintained.
-      Considering  the urban  focus of its mission  statement, organization  structure,
geographical spread of activities and human resource base, the Department of Urban
Roads should evolve in to a Department of Urban Transport to manage the activities
began under the Urban Transport Unit and sustain their benefits.
(b) Cojinanciers:
Not Applicable. A Japanese Grant of 109.2 million Yen granted for project preparation was administered
by the Bank.
(c) Other partners (NGOsiprivate sector):
Not Applicable.
10. Additional Information
Though a Core ICR, the process adopted had included a beneficiary survey carried out as part of a
post-project impact assessment study. The study was extremely useful as it bridged a wide information
gap, thus facilitating the writing of the ICR.
The ICR mission took place in June 1999, six months prior to project closing. A key conclusion of the
mission was the decision to undertake the post-project impact assessment study, and other key actions,
- 24 -



as part of the measures to ensure the smooth closing of the project.
The interactive process between the field-based project team and the implementing agency led to a
better understanding of the Borrower's role and contribution to the ICR process.
Finally, the ICR team included two former Task managers. Their comments helped place the ICR in the
right context.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Average moming peak hour times on major
arterial routes (minutes)
In Accra                     NA                                      17.5
In Secondi/Takoradi          NA                                      4.4
Funds expended per year on road
maintenance ($ million)                 14.3                                   12.9
Length of urban roads receiving periodic
rnaintenance (kms)
reseal bitumen surfaces       74                                     3.7
biturmen resurfacing          53                                      19.8
regravelling                  27                                     8.8
Ditch maintenance             61                                     get from DUR
Road marking                  450                                    get from DUR
Average parking duration at lorry terminals   NA                               NA (terminals not yet operational)
Revenues collected at bus terminals     NA                                     NA (terminals not yet operational)
Number of recorded accidents in Accra  7,313                                   3,900
Weighted average ERR on arterial roads in  29                                  45
Accra and Secondi/Takoradi (%)
WVeighted average economic rate of return on
roads in depressed areas                NA                                     45
Road Condition mix for urban roads (%)  NA                                     41% poor; 24% fair; 35% good
Average number of bicycles in daily use on
non-motorable paths                     NA                                     380
Local employment generated by rehabilitation
vworks (Billion Cedis)                  NA                                      18.6
NA=Not Available
Output Indicators:
.Arterial Roads Rehabilited and traffic
management (kms)
In Accra                       18.07                                   33.58
In Sekondi/Takoradi            10.43                                   10.73
Road safety structures constructed
Number of speed humps          Get from DUR                            Get from DUR
Laybyes (kms?)
Road marking and signing (kms)
Number of transport terminals constructed   16 or more                         9
Access roads in low-income areas (kms)    25                                   19.25
Non-motorized paths constructed (km)   50                                      21.5
Equipment for institutional strengthening ($
million)                                0 67                                   2.68
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cormponent (in US$ million equivalent)
DUR-ADM1NISTERED COMPONENTS
A. ROAD REHAE31LlTAT[ON                                36.34            48.33            133
B. TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS                      7.90             0.50              6
C. TRANSPORT TERMINAL REHABILITAT ION                   6.56             3.44             52
D. IMPROVED ACCESS TO LOW-INCOME AREAS                 10.54             8.61             82
& NMT
E. EQUIPMENT FOR INSTITUTIONAL                          2.30             0.60             26
STRE.NGTHENIN G
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                    6.71             6.92             10
MOTC-ADMINISTERED COMPONENTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                          0.08             0.05             64
B. EQUIPMENT FOR INSTITUTIONAL                          0.94             0.70             75
STRENGTHfNG
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                     1.48            1.52            103
D. OPERATING COST                                       0.05             0.01             20
Total Baseline Cost                                    72.90            70.68
Physical Contingencies                                 6.46
Price Contingencies                                    8.01            10.60            133
Total Project Costs               87.37            8128
Total Financing Required                87.37            81.28      .      -
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
N    i .B    j" 
1. Works                     51.60         23.53        0.00          0.00         75.13
(43.96)      (20.32)       (0 00)       (0.00)       (64.28)
2. Goods                     2.17          0.57          1.01         0.00          3.75
(1.88)       (0.49)       (0.86)        (0.00)        (3.23)
3. Seivices                  0.00          0.00          8.68         0.00          8,68
(0.00)       (0.00        (8.68)        (0.00)        (8.68)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
___  _____               (0.00)        (0-00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneotus             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0,00)
Total                     53.77         24.10         9.69         0.00          87.56
._________  (45.84)  (20.81)       (9.54)       (0.00)        (76.19)
- 27-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
~EZpenditure Caegr        ICB-        0-0.-0 0-0 P>rocursment! Method           ..  --Th  07= 
1. Works                         54.50      {    18.82           0.00            0.00           73.32
(48.40)        (14.88)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (63.28)
2. Goods                          0.09            0.00           1.41                            1.50
(0.00)         (0.0 0)        (1.35)         (0.00)          (1.35)
3. Services                       0.00            0. (0          10.57                          10.57
(0.00)         (0.00)         (10.57)         (0.00)         (10.57)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.0()         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
S. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)    1   (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00      i    0.00      i    0.00             0.00            0.00
_ .______________________  (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         54.59         1 18.82        1   1.98           0.00           85.39
.____________________  (48.40)   (14.88)        (11.92)         (0.00)          (75.20)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, trainiing., teclnical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project ftnds to local govenrment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
IDA  (~~~ {  CoF.       I~DA      Govt       C F.    -IDA..
0.0    0.0    0.0
A. Rd. rehab and traffic  46.62       7.28      0.00       52.09      7.79               111.7  107.0   0.0
improvement                                  I
B. TerminalRehab. and     17.71      2.76       0.0()0    12.32      3.12                69.6   113.0   0.0
Access to Low-Income
areas and NMT Paths                                    l
C. Equipment               3.26      0.51                  1.66   |0.23                  50.9   45.1    0.0
D. TA and and Training     9.37      0.00                  9.77   |  0.00                104.3   0.0    0.0
E. Operating Cost          0.06      0.00                  0.53       0.01               883.3   0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
1.     The large differences of actual financing figures over appraisal amounts is essentially due to adjustments,
- 28 -



carried out during implementation, on IDA financing percentages for civil works and equipment (from 55% to
75%/0), to reduce the burden of counterpart funding on the Borrower. As can be noted, despite the adjustment, the
Government's actual contribution still exceeded appraisal targets by 6%. This was a result of the extra works
introduced under the Accra CDB contract, for which the Government was obliged to assume a greater part of the
additioral costs, following the Bank's decision to freeze disbursement in order to limit further over-commitmrent of
the category. The Government also assumed other minor cost increases from delayed payment and expropriation
claims.
2.     A Japanese grant in the amount of 109.2 million Yen, initially intended to support project prepration, did
not quite achieve this objective, due to delays in its effectiveness. It subsequently ran concurrently with the IDA
credit until its termination on February 12, 1997. Even though it contributed to the financing of DUR operating
costs, which were never part of the project costs, the grant has not been counted as part of project financing.
-29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Most economic costs and benefits are those used to calculate the economic rate of return for road
rehabilitation and access improvements in low-income areas.
Economic costs were mainly the discounted cost (at 15%) of rehabilitation works, and routine and
periodic maintenance (without contingencies) on the targeted infrastructure.
Quantified economic benefits were expressed in terms of the money value of annual economic road user
cost savings, resulting from improved infrastructure and traffic flow. The cost savings were essentially
derived from reductions in vehicle operating costs and in traffic waiting times at major junctions of some of
the arterial roads. However, for the purpose of ERR calculations, traffic time savings were not considered.
A socic-economic assessment carried out at the end of the project also recorded unquantifed increases
in household incomes and improved living standards, as a result of reduced floods and improved access
in low-income areas. Full results of the survey form part of project documentation. It is also expected
that there will be a considerable increase in revenues to municipal assemblies, traders and lorry owners,
once the lorry terminals become operational (see Paragraph 4.1).
-30-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specially                Performance Ratiig
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 EMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                         Progress           Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification                NA    NA
Preparation                   NA    NA
Pre-appraisal                   7   1 Road Engineer; 1 Urban
Engineer; 1 Urban Transport
Specialist; 1 Municipal
Engineer; 1 Transport
Economist; 1 Social
Anthropologist; 1 Financial
Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                      5    1 Urban Engineer; 1 Urban
Transport Specialist; 1
Infrastructure Engineer; 1
Financial Analyst; I
Transport Economist
Negotiations                    4    1 Urban Engineer; 1
Disbursement Specialist; 1
Lawyer; 1 Infrastructure
Engineer
Supervision
10/25/1993-10130/1993          2   1 Senior Municipal
Engineer; 1 Infarstructure
Engineer
3/12/1994-3/18/1994             2   1 Urban Engineer; 1
Infrastcucture Engineer
5/17/1994-6/03/1994             3   1 Senior Municipal Engineer; I         S                  S
Transport Economist; 1
Infrastructure Engineer
6/25/1994-7/'8/1994             3   1 Senior Municipal Engineer; 1         S                  S
Transport Economist; 1
Infrastructure Engineer
2/27/1995-3,'08/1995            4   1 Senior Municipal Engineer; 1         S                  S
Transport Specialist; 1
Non-motorized Transport
Specialist; 1 Trainer
10/9/1995-10/27/1995            2   1 Senior Municipal Engineer; 1         S                  S
Infrastructure Engineer
5/6/1996-5/17/1996              1   1 Non-motorized Transport              S                  S
Specialist
9/23/1996-10/18/1996            2   1 Senior Municipal Engineer; 1         U                  S
Infrastracture Engineer
- 31 -



5/08/1997-5/30/1997                3   Principal Engineer; Senior                U                    S
Urban Finance Specialist;
Infrastnicture Engineer
11/20/1997-12/12/1991             2   Principal Engineer; 1                     U                    S
Infrastracture Engineer
5/08/1998-5/12/1998                1   1 Procurement Specialist                  S                    S
11/23/1998-12/4/1998              3   2 Principal Engineers; 1                   S                   S
Infrastructure Engineer
ICR
6/7/1999-6/18/1999                4    2 Principal Engineers; 1                  5                    S
Senior Operations officer, 1
Transport Engineer
Nola Bene: NA=Not Available (there was no data in project files to quantify input to identification/preparation).
Blank ratings related to missions conducted before project effectiveness. The U rating was as a result of shortfalls
in counterpart funds. The project benefited from 10 missions to the field. The PSR was updated 16 times. Figures
pertain to only missions conducted in the field. As can be noted, these figures compare favorably to the region's
average of 15 supervision staff-weeks a year.
(b) Staff:
I     S0ti age ofPrject Cylc            A:tua  latest. Estimate
I________________i:_____f  CNo.  Staff w eeks                             US$    ,  000
Identification/Preparation                    71.1                           201.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                         29.4                            77.7
Supervision                                  128.4                           368.1
ICR
Total                                        228.9                           647.7
Supervision and ICR information have been combined as separate data is not available.
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanrial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies
2 Sector Policies                            ' H  (9 SU O M    ) 7  0 NA
O Physical                                   (H1  * SU   A M  (^N  E NA
Z Financial                                  EJ! H  * SU 0 All O N       NA
O Institutional Development                  < H         SU * M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                              (J H  0 SU    VIM  0 N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                   ED H  0 SU 0 Al 0 N  O NA
O Gender                              ( 'u H   SU   A M   O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development                    H  * SU E Af    N  E NA
2 Public sector management                   ( /  ED SUU 0      Ar 0 N  E NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactorv, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
B Lending                                            O HS * S    U, 'lU
[ Supervision                                          HS *-  S   C s  u   HU
Z Overall                                            C HS S   G              l s
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Y Preparation                                        C HS * S       U D  C' HU
J Government implementation performance              _ HS 0 S  0  U        HU
S Implementation agency performance                    I-HS * S   C I          U
Z Overall                                            0 HS       S    u     H(' I,,'
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report No. 11674-GH, dated April 20,1993
2. Development Credit Agreement No. 2498-GH, dated July 26, 1993
3. Borrower's Annual and Quarterly Activity Reports
4. Borrower's Final Annual Report 1999, issued in January 2000
5. Data for Implementation Completion Report and Socio-Economic Impact Assessment
and Analysis (DUR, February 2000)
6. Project Preparation and Supervision Reports
7. BRRI: Identification of Accident Black Spots (December 1999); Road Accidents in
Ghana (September 1999)
8. LOAAF Disbursement Data
9. Proposal for Road Sub-sector Investment Program (MRT, March 2000)
10. Road Fund Annual and Periodic Reports
11. Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's Assessment), Urban Transport Project,
DUR, MRT, May 2000
12. Government's Comments on ICR
- 35 -



