t. [   H                                     U)
4   |                                                            0  '    ;
IT:               o        0     S     R                   R 3 r~~~6.  .t
II.                                      N  1*|gC                    E n
gl~~~ ii
ii                                                              t-!*
[2_



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Exchange rates of January 1993
Currency Unit =     Cedi (¢)
US$1 =       550
el =       USS 0.00182
MEASURES AN1 EOUIALE
I r   r (m)   =     3.28feet (fi)
1 kilometer (am)   =    0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP           Accra District Rehabilitation Project
AMA            Accra Metropolitan Assembly
AMRU           Accra i4etropolitan Roads Unit
ASMP           Arterial Street Master Plan
BRRI           Building and Road Research institute
CBD            Central Business District
CES            City Express Services
DER            Department of Feeder Roads
DRU            District Roads Unit
DUR            Departnent of Urban Roads
EPC            Enviromnental Protection Council
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
FASP           Framework Arterial Street Plan
GCTA           Ghana Co-operative Transport Association
GHA            Ghana Highway Authority
GOG            Government of Ghana
GPRTU          Ghana Private Road Transport Union
KMA            Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly
MFEP           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLG            Ministry of Local Govermnents
MMAs           Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies
MMS            Maintenance Management System
MRH            Ministry of Roads and Highways
MOTC           Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTU            Motor Traffic Unit
NMT            Non-Motorized Transport
NMV            Non-Motorized Vehicle
NRSC           National Road Safety Committee
OSA            Omnibus Services Authority
PI)            Planning Implementation Division
PIP            Public Investment Program
PWP            Priority Works Project
SOE            Statements of Expenditures
STC            State Transprt Corporation
TCP            Department of Town and Country Planning
TMA            Tema Meropolitan Assembly
TRP            Transport Rehabilitation Project
UIP            Urban Transport Project
UTU            Urban Transport Unit
VELD           Vehicle Examinations and Licensing Department
EISCAL YEAR
nI - lw'rmhar 21



FOR OMCL USE ONLY
REPUBlIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Cdit and Projec Summary  .............................. i
I. INTRODUCTION                                 1. 
H. TRANSPORT AND URRAN SECTORS                                                   1
A. TheTran.por.Sec.or 1
B.    The Urban Sector                                                    2
m. URBAN TRANSPORT SECT..R                                                       3
A. BaclTound.                                                             3
B. InstitJons.                                                            3
C.    Urban RoadsandTraffic. 
D. Demand for Urban Transport.                                            6
E. Public Tansport.                                                       7
F.  Financing of Urban Transpon.                                          8
G.    Past Bank Involvement in the Sector and Rationale for Continuing
Involvement.                                                       9
H.    Sector Policy ........................   10
1V. THE PROJECT ............                             ........... 10
A.    Project Objectives ........................   10
B.    Description ........................   11
C.    Status of Preparation .........          ...............  17
D.    Implementaion ........................                              18
E.    Estimated Project Cost ..........          ..............   18
F.    Project Financing Plan ..........          ..............  19
G.  Procurement .............                ..,. 20
H. Disbursement ............                                             23
I.    Accounting and Auditng ............................                    .Z4
J.    Reporting and Monitodng ............................   24
V. BENEiTS, IMPACTS AND RISKS ............................   25
A.    Primary Project Jusificadon ............................  25
B.    Economic and Oter Benefits ............................  26
C.    Sensidvity Analysis ..................                             29
D.    Environmental mpact ..................  29
E.    Poverty impact ..................    30
F.  Risks ..................                                             31
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Ghana in
November 1992, comprising of Messrs./Mmes. Alan Coulthart (rask Manager and Urban
Engine), Eleanor Warner (Financial Analyst), Richad Scurfield (rransport Specia),
Godfrey Ewool (Infastructre Engineer), and Scott Lukehat (Consultant, Economist). Peer
reviewers were Messrs. Chis Hoban, Cesar Quelroz, and Robero Chavez. Secreturi
support was provided by Ms. Elizabeth Novatny. Mr. James Wright and Mr. Edwin Lim are
the manging Division Chief and Department Director repectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .........   32
A.    Agroemets       ....................................... 32
B.    Ronnn ion              ................................... 34
3-1   Sture of DUR ad the District Road Uns (DRUs)
3-2    Accm  Framework Arteria Stret Plan - Roads Requiring Rabiltation
3-3    Budgetary Alloodons for the Highway Sector, Public Investmn Prgram 19-94
3-4    Lett of Urbn Transport Sector Development Policy
4-1    Accra Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Magement mprvements
4-2   SekondifTaloradi - Road Rehbilitation
4-3    Access Improvemen to Low-nome Ares
4-4   luions to be improved in Accra
4-5   Teminals Prposed for Rehabilitation
4-6   Pilot NMV Paths
4-7   Equipment to be Supplied to VELD, BRRI, NSC and MTU
44    Road Mintenunce and nitution  Support Equipment for DUR
4-9   Insiuonal S pport to 1fown & Country Plannig and Minstry of Local Govnmen
4-10   Urban Transport Unit
4-11   Draft TOR for the Road Safety Componen
4-12   Department of Urban Roads - Organization and Managemen Studie - Draft Term sof
Reference
4-13   Establishet of Parkig and Taffic Unis in the Metropolian and Municipal
Assemblies
4-14   Consutancy Inputs
4-IS   Cont    ManMgement Specaist & Municipal Enghne  - TOR
4-16  TOR for Development of Mantnance Management System
4-17   Trainig Program
4-18  Imp ta    Schedule
4-19   Cost Estimates: Summay
4-20   Procurement
4-21   DIburm      Schedule
4-22   SupervIion Plan
4-23  Indicator of Project Inpact
S-1    Economic Evaluation
S-2    Environment Miigaton Meaures
6-I    Douments Avaiable In the Project File
Maps: IBID 24619,24620,24621, and 24622



CELM   OF GHANA
UIRBAN $0R          PAJEC
Borover:                      Ihe Republic of Ghana
IeneldKriz                    Minisbtry of Transpoit and    iaon (M    ; Mintry of Roads and
Highways (MRH); Demnt of Utban Roads (DUR); Miistry of Local
Government (MLG); and the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies
(MMAs) of Accra, Kumasi, Sekondifrakoradi, Tema and Tamale.
Credit &Mnt:                  SDR 55 million (US$ 76.2 million equivalent)
Jim:                          Standard IDA terms with 40 years marity.
1tglect Demdpthn:             The main oojective of the project is to increase the quality and efficienq
of urban trarsport services, make their delivery more equitable, and to
sustain the improved levels of service. The project wil strive to achieve
this by rehabiltating roads and trasport facilities, improving access to
low income areas, and building capacity in the instiutions responsible for
the policy development and planning of ubn  tiansport and the
maintece of its related infrastructure. There are five main
components: (a) road rehabilitation in Accra and SekondtTakoradi; (b)
traffic  aagement improvements; (c) lorry park and bus teJaninal
rehabilitation; (d) conStrction of non-motorized transport facilities and
access roads to low-income areas; ad (e) technial asistace to cental
and local government agncies for policy development, project prepation
and imlem ion, and  situdional development. The road
rehabilitation works will focus on Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi, where the
problems we most acute, while the traffic management and public
transport termina improvements wil be carried out in all five cities. The
policy and Institutional aspects will benefit the whole country.
}roject Ibnefits and Rjisl:   The project will reduce the cost of travel and increase ihe quality of
eransport services in Accra and Sekodi/Takoradi by improving road
surfaces, reducing congestion and impwving transport teminals. It will
also have a postive impact on the urban poor by improving their
mobility,  raing accessibility to jqb opportnites and decreasing
etrasport costs. Overall, it wil increase the efficiency and productivty of
the urban economy and produce high eownomic returns. The main risks
relate to .he timely allocation of counpart and road maintenance funding
and delays in implementadon. The risk on counterpart funding has bea
minmized by sizing the project to suit the expected resources that will be
available to Govenmen over the project period. Goveuent ba aereed
to iease the road maintenance allocations from the Road Fund to the
level required to sustain the rehabilitated roads and the existing stock of
urban roads in good conditon, by 1996. The risk of delays during
implementation have been minimized by advance preparation of designs
and tender document for cii works acuntin for 62% by value of the
project Govenment also Introduced measure in 1992 to stramline
procurement procedures and the Bans monioring capacity at the
Resident Mission was incresed in Februy 1993.



H
Estimated Priec Costs and Financing Plaw:
A. Eatmated Po   C
C?M.9gent                  Loca    Foreign     TQ
USS million
Road Rehabilitation                        10.9       25.4      36.3
Traffic Management Improvements             2.4        5.5       7.9
Trasport Termind Rehabilitation             2.0        4.6       6.6
Improved Access to Poverty Areas            3.2        7.4      10.5
Equipment for Institutional Strengtnening   1.0        2.3       3.3
Teclnical Assistance & Training             3.6        4.8       8.4
BASE COST (Jan. 1993)               DA         50
Physical Conthigencies                      1.9        4.5       6.5
Price Contingencies                         2.6        5.5       8.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  27.(       f
l/ Of this amount, an esdmated US$3.2 million equivalent is for duties and taxes.
B. Finncing Plan
Loc    Forein      Total
uS$ million
IDA                                        16.2       60.0      76.2
Government of Ghana                        1L          =        "A
TOTAL FINANCING                     .§          LQ
Estimated IDA Disbursemets
IDA Fiscal Year 1994        1225      1226  199           in   19
..___-  US$ million
Annual             3.2       17.2      23.5      21.7       8.2       2.4
Cumulative                   20.4      43.9      65.6      73.8      76.2
v Includes initial deposits of US$1.5 million and US$0.3 million to the Special Accounts.
3conomic Rat of Rern:    29% for the road rehabilitation and traffic management
components in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradli (56% by value of
project).



REPUBIIC OF A
ULAS TRANSOtr PRW
I.    RODUC'lO
1.1   Over the past two decades urban transport in Ghana has deteriorated in the face of
declining resources allocated to infrastrucmre maintenance and an increasing number of
vehicles on the roads. Public transport operators face high operaimg and maintenance costs
because of road deterioration, traffic congestion and poorly organized transport terminal
facilities. This is reflected in old, badly maintained vehicles and poor levels of service to the
travelling public. The poor are particularly disadvantage because they have no altenative
means of transport. The resulting high transport costs and loss of time have negative
economic effects.
1.2   The project will address these problems by increasing the capacity and Improving the
efficiency of urban transport infrastructure and services and related institutions. It will
remove critical urban transport bottlenecks, particularly in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi where
the problems are most acute, and help provide public transport by reducing 1ag waiting
times, traffic congestion, and crowded and unhygienic bus terminad conditions in Ghana's five
main cities (Accra, Kumasi, SekonditTakoradi, Tema and Tamale). It wUl increase the
productivity of the urban economy and produce high economic rettns. It will direct benefits
to the urban poor by improving their mobility, increasing accessibility to job opportunities and
decreasing transport costs.
H.LANRT AND UltBAN SECTORS
A.    The TmnsUW-Seda
2.1   This section gives a brief overview of Ghana's transport sector. More detailed
information is available in SAR-6921 GH, the First Transport Rehabilitation Project and SAR-
8945 GH, the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project. These were presented to the Board in
May 1988 and December 1990 respectively.
2.2 Ghana's transport system comprises: (i) a network of about 14,400 km of trunk and
urban arterial roads of which around 2,900 kan are in urban areas and about 21,300 km of
feeder roads; (ii) a 950 km railway system linking Accra, Tema, Kumasi and Takoradi; (idi)
deep-water ports at Tema and Takoradi; (iv) an inland water transport system on the Volta
Lake; (v) an international airport at Accra and domestic airports at Kumasi and Tamale; and
(vi) a national airline providing international and domestic services. Road trasport is the
dominant mode in the system and about 90 percent of it is operated by the private sector, with
easy market entry and little government regulation of its cperations.
2.3   With the adverse macro-economic conditions which developed in the early 1970's,
Ghana's infrastructure entered a long period of decline from which it is only now emerging.
The Government bas given priority to restoring the transport network and institutional



2
capacity. With assistance from th Bank and other donors, some progre has been made in
rehtating the trunk road and feeder road systems - these were considered to have the
highest economic priority. Except for a Govemnt fimded prgram in L^masi and the
rehlabilitation of a few artea  roads in Accra, little has been done for urbat roads, which
have been subjected to the additional strain of a rapidly expanding vehicle fleet.
2.4   In addition to prioritizing rehablitaion and mnenance, two notable policy issues
that have been addressed with Bank assistance in recent years are: (i) Goverment finacing
of road works - a road fund, wich draws ftom fue taxes, has been established to make
regular allocaeons to the agencies responsible for maintenance and rehabilitation; and Ii)
increased use of the private sector - contractrs now carry out virtually all new construction
and around 80% of matn  works.
B.    The Urtan Sedor
2.5   In the past, Ghana had a strong local govenmn sstem, particularly in the cities.
However, over the past two decades, witi economic decline and the resultant erosion of the
revenue base, cities have not had the financial resources to maintain inftructure, and
professional staff have been lost to the private sector and overseas. As a consequence, the
central Govermment has had to take over many of the functions tha were previously handled
at the local level including road rehabilitation and maintenace. Government is atemping to
reverse this trend with the enactment of Local Goverment Law, PNDC Law No. 207 in
1983, which requires most funcdom administered by central Government ministries to be
devolved to I10 district assemblies. 'Me largest and best organized of these are the
Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies in the five main cities. Responsibility for the
construction of all secondary and teriary roads and the repair and maintenance of all roads
(including trunk roads) is specified in the Establishment Inuments, which empowered the
district assemblies. Although the law has been enacted and the assemblies established since
1989, little progress has actually been made with implementation.
2.6 Increasing district assembly revenues, which is a fundamental requirement for
effective decentralization, was addressed in Accra under the Accra District Rehabilitation
Project (ADRP), and is being taclded in the other our main cities under the Second Urban
Development Project. 'he ADRP strengthened the ci's resource base by funding a
comprehensive property rvuation and co    n  the billing and collection of property
taxes. Revenues increased by 100% in real terts between 1988 and 1991. Similar
revuations are being crried out, in Kumasi, Sebondiakoradi, Tema and Tamale under the
Seoond Urban Development Project and tehnical assistance will also be provided t> establish
more effet-ive billing and collection in these cities.



3
m. UuORBAN          ulrB
A.  1B8ekd
3.1    One o' the major socioeconomic problems facing Ghana ih the growing inadequacy of
its urban infrastructure and services in the face of a fast growing urban populon. About
one-third of Ghana's toal population of around 16 milion lives In urban areas, with 20% of
the total populatior concentrated in the five main cities of Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi/rakoradi,
Tema and Tamale. Urban population growth rates are high, rangig between 3.2 and 4.8
percent over the pat two decades. The fluctaions reflect changes in economic prosperity
and rates have becn rising since the mid-1980's towards the upper limit of the range. Accra,
the capital city and main administrative and commercial center of Ghana, has an esimated
population of 1.5 million. Estmated populations of the other cetis are: Kumasi - 0.50
million, Tema - 0.24 million, Sekondi/Takoradi - 0.19 million, and Tamale - 0.18 million.
3.2   Accraes - _lation is expected to reach 2 millon by the year 2000, a 33 percent
increase over a period of ten years. This wi11 place great stress on inf ure services,
particularly in the transport sector. In the past, urban ifrasuctr and services have not
received sufficient maintence fimding and have fallen into disrepair. Capacity over;oads
already constrain both the efficiency and productivity of the urban economy and the situation
is being exacerbad by the large number of vehicles imported in recen years, my of which
are second hand. Traffic congestion is now ubiquitous throughout Accra, and is also a
problem in the centers of Kumasi and SekondiTrakoradi.
B.    Institutions
3.3   Responsibility for the various aspects of urban transport is shared by the Minstries of
Transport and Communications, Roads and Highways, Local Govrnment and the Motor
Traffic Unit of the Ministry of Jntrior.
3.4   MA"  of Trnspoel and Com          aos ((OTC) Ihe Plannig and
Implemenaion Division (PMD), is responsible for transport policy, legisation and regulation.
Until recendy no formal procedures, or arrangements, existed for the coordinadon of urban
tasport information and policy. An ad-hoc technical committee was formed in 1991 to steer
the preparation of the Urban Transport Policy Action Prgam, which laid the foundation for
the proposed project As a first s  towards adopting this program, the Goverm t
established an Urban Trnport Unit (UTU) within the Plaig and Implementation Divsion
of MOTC, to act as a focal point for the coordination of ura   trasport activties. ThePID
lso has overall responsibility for road safety and the actvities of the National Road Safety
Committee (NRSC), which is responsible for the preparaton and implementaton of
educational campaigns and advice on new legislation. The NRSC also coordinates the
acdvities of the Motor Traffic Unit (MTU), which prepar report on accides, and the
Building and Road Research Instiute (BRRI) at the Univeity of Science and Tehnology,
which has responsibility for compiling national accident statistics. The staistics are then



4
made available  u traffic engineers in the highway agencies, who are responsible for the
design and Implementation of remedial measures. In practice, data from the MTU is only
partal and none of the i plementing agencies Is particularly strong.
3.5   The Vehicle Examinations and Licensing Department (VELD) is responsible for
vehicle inspections which are required to be carried out every 6 months through 18 inspection
stations spread throughout the country. Suitable premises and testing equipment were
provided for four of these stations under TRP-I and II, but the remaining stations are ill-
equipped to function effectively.
3.6    Minisuy of Roads and Highways (MR) Responsibility for highways is divided
between three bodies: Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) - the trunk and secondary roaW
system; the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) - rural feeder roads; and the Department .
Urban Roads (DUR) - urban roads. It is the latter department which will be responsible for
implementing the road and traffic managewent components of this project.
3.7    Draaanent of Urban Roads DUR was established in 1988 to take over responsibility
for roads in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondifrakoradi and Tema from GHA in order to direct more
attention to the specific problems associated with the increasingly trafficked urban roads (see
Annex 3l for more details). In Accra a Metropolitan Roads Unit (AMRU) has been formed,
and District Roads Units (I)RUs) were established in the other three cities, with a fourth
planned for Tamale. These units are funded through DLTR and managed by the Department in
consultation with the Municipal and Metropolitan Assemblies (MMAs). DUR, including the
units, has a total staff of 550 of which only 28 are professional staff. These professional
staff, though well qualified and dedicated, are too few for the work load facing them. DUR
works closely with the Municipal and Metropolitan Authorities (MMAs), developing
construction and maintenance pro -ams. In 1990, the AMRU assumed responsibility for
maintenance of Accra's roads, following strengthening of the unit, though major rehabilitation
and reconstruction works are still administered by DUR. It is intended that all of the cities
will follow Accra's example and eventually become responsible for their own roads. DUR
would then become a national policy advisory, testing and support unit for road and traffic
engineering. The initial feasibility report identifying the scope of this project was prepared by
DUR.
3.8    MWy of Local Government (MLW)  LG has administrative and policy
responsibility for local authorities, including the MMAs benefitting from the proposed project.
Under Government's decentralization polity, MMAs are legally responsible for the
construction of secondary and tertiary roads and the maintenance of roads within their
jurisdictions. They are also responsible for the management and control of parking, including
the operation of lorry parks and bus terminals. In practice, because the MMAs do not have
sufficient managerial or administrative resources, responsibility for roads, with the exception
of Accra, is with the DUR. Government has delegated the management of most lorry parks
and bus terminals, including the collection of user charges, to the operators' unions.
3.9   The Department of Town and Country Planning (I1CP), which is responsible for land-
use planning and development control, is also part of MLG. For transportation planning, its
main responsibility is the identification, demarcation, and preservation of transport corridors
and related infrastructure wayleaves. Lack of an effective system for development control,
and inadequate transport for staff, makes it difficult for the Department to control
encroachment of corridors by illegal developers.



S
3.10   Motor flwi nit Mnk   of Interior  he Motor Traffic Unit (M14U) is
responsible for enforcement of traffic laws and for preparing road accident reports. The toad
accident data is passed to the Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI) for analysis.
C.    lJban RS  ad Taf
3.11   Accra has about 950 kilometers of roads, of which 550 kilometers are paved. Studies
carried out between 1987 and 1988, under the Accra District Rehabilitation Project, concluded
that traffic congestion inside the Ring Road, resulted from: (a) deteriorated road surfaces; (O)
vebicle/pedestrian conflict over road space (frequently a result of commercial activities
encroacbing on footpaths); (c) inadequate junction design and signalling; (d) uncontrolied on-
street parking; and (e) too many taxis, and too few large buses. The road network itself was
generally considered to have sufficient capacity, in terms of road space, to meet medium term
traffic growth, if the above problems could be resolved.
3.12 The situation outside of the Ring Road differs, in that the prime cause of congestion
was found to be deficiencies in the network; there were insufficient arteial routes, both radial
and east-west connecrs, and existing arterials were not wide enough. Deteriorated road
surfaces, poor junctions and undisciplined parking and driving were also contributing factors
in this area. The studies proposed solutions based around an Arteral Street Master Plan
(ASMP) for the center of Accra, and a Framework Arterial Street Plan (FASP) to meet the
network deficiencies outside of the Ring Road. The roads :ncluded in the project comprise
the core of the ASMP (see para 4.5). Details of roads included in the FASP for which
designs and tender documents have been prepared but which are not included in the project
are given in ADM 3-2. Rehabilitation of these roads offer high ERRs.
3.13  Traffic Management Improvement Studies were also carried out in Kumasi,
SekoudilTbkoradi and Tema in 1990. Tlese found that although congestion levels were
generally much less than in Accra, there were serious problems in the centers of
SekondiUTakoradi and Kumasi. Kumasi has benefitted from extensive road rehabilitation since
1990 and the congestion there has been largely eliminated. The roads in Tema, which is the
only one of the five project cities planned on a grid system, have adequate capacity and a
bilateral finded rehabilitation project for Tamale's main roads comuieced in 1992. All of
the cities share the problems of lack of maintenance and poor traffic management.
3.14   The secondary and teriary roads of the network, which provide access into residential
areas and markets, are generally in bad condition and often become impassable when it rains.
Low-income areas vre the worst served; the poor either have to walk considerable distances to
a main road to obtain public transport, or they have to pay a premium to operators who fwce
high vehicle operating costs in servicing these areas. The Accra Residential and Market
Upgrading Study, completed in 1992, examined the infrastructure needs of 17 low-income
communities and identified 7 where lack of access roads posed a major problem. Information
on the socio-economic characteristics of these areas and the conditions of their road and
draiage networks is given in Annex 4A. Access to many markets is also difficult because of
traffic congestion and the poor physical state of the roads. It is common eved for heavy
goods to be carried considerable distances to and from the markets. Pedestran facilities are
poor, particularly in Accra and Takoradi, where the absence of sidewalks in the central areas



6
and along almost all main roads, is a safety aard, ad pedestra  In the roadwas dsrupt
traffic.
3.15 Virtually no provision is made for the users of non-motorized vehicles, mainly
bicycles and handcars. Despite this omission, handcarts are widely used, especi ly in the
market areas, and cycle use has grown in recent years. Cycling is already widespred in the
north of the counry, but much less common in the south. In the past, bicycles were widely
;ased In Accra, but usage declined with the rising affluence of the 1960s and early 1970s. In
recent years the dedline in real Incomes renewed demand among low and middle income
groups, but the congested urban roads, which have no special provisions for cyclists, have
become too dangerous for their safe use. Cycles are readily avaiable frm shops in all cities.
The main cycle distributors Inport about 110,000 bicycles annually to Ghana and around
10,000 per year have been sold in Accra in recent years. Enq4ries show that 62% of
households in low-income areas in Accra own at least one bicycle, but their use Is restricted
to local roads where motor traffic Is light. Tle suppressed demand for bicycle use was
recognized in early 1992 by the Government, which committed itself to the principle of
balanced development of transport modes and more equitable allocation of road space.
Provision is now being made for bicycles in all urban road designs, wherever space permits.
3.16 The Ghana Road Safety Project (part of TRP-1) highlighted the seriousness of the road
safety problem in Ghana. Each year around 700 persons are killed and around 7000 injured.
About half these accidents occur in cities and a very high pege involve pedesrians.
Although procedures exist for recording accidents and analyzing statistics, resource constrains
limit effective remedial measures.
D.    Dmand forUban dmiM        t
3.17   Statistics indicated that the vehicle fleet in 1991 was 109,000 (excluding an esimated
10,000 government vehicles and others not presented for the required bi-hunual road
worthiness test), of which 71,000 were private cars and taxis, 23,000 buses and tro-tros (ocal
mini-buses), 10,000 trucks and 5000 motorcycles. About half these vehicles are registered in
Accra and 16 percent in Kumasi. The registered vehicle fleet has grown at an average rate of
19 percent per annum since 1984. Since around 20% of vehicles are not preseed for the
required safety inspection and are not licensed, the number of vehicles in use in the country is
greater than suggested by the statistics.
3.18 In the center of Accra, surveys show that privat cars and tasxis make up about 70
percent (40% and 30% respectively) of the vehicles on the roads, with buses and tro-tos
accounting for 15 percent and trucIk 12 percent. Between 1987 and 1990, traffic flows
increased by about 10 percent per annum and sample surveys suggest that delays increased at
an even greater rate. Average peak hour speeds in 1990 were about 15 kn per bour in the
center of Accra and below 10 km per hour on certain critical links. While more recent data is
not available, these trends appear to be continuing.
3.19  In 1987 surveys indicated that more than 76 percent of all motorized passenger trips
wer:, by public transport (taxis, tro-tros and heavy buses). However, large buses carry less
than 10% of the total, while taxis increased their sae from around 25% in 1987, to 32% in
1990. Walking is the choice of many and a small, though growing, number use bicycles.



7
E.           MmmlTrsport
3.20 Most of the public transport services in the country, are provided by the private
sector, which operates a mix of buses, tro-tros and taxis. There are also three parastal bus
companies: Omnibus Services Authority (OSA); City Express Services (CES) and State
Transport Corporation (STC), but they are largely limited to Inter-city operation. STC is only
autorized to provide sucb services and both OSA and CES have effectively withdraw from
urban bus operations because they are unable to compete with the private sector. Government
has stopped direct subsidization of the three companies, though some residual financial
support contnues in the case of OSA and CES, through Government repayment and guarantee
of loans for bus purchases.
3.21 There are few official controls over the operation of public transport. However,
private opions are strictly controlled by trade unions of which the most powerfil is the
Ghana Private Road Transport Union (GPRTU). The unions charge a membership fee, and
drivers must register with and pay a daily fee to one of the 'locals', which controls a
terminal. User charges are also collected by the unions on behalf of the MMAs, who own the
terminals, though studies indicate that less than 10% of the potential revenue is received by
the MMAs. Union rules require a bus to be full before It can depart. This practice is not
always in the interests of the bus users who often cannot board buses between teminals and
must wait long penods until buses are full.
3.22 The overall quality of public transport is poor. Most vehicles are old, many are
converted trucks, and maintenance standards are low. There is little incentive for operators to
invest in better vehicles because of the high maintenance costs arising from deteriorated road
surhces and the limitation that congestion imposes on earnings. There appears to be a
sufficient number to meet demand, with low-capacity vehicles, such as taxis and minibuses
predominating and increasing their share of the market. ITis is of concern because the
vehicles carry fewer passengers per standard unit of road space than larger buses and
therefore excerbate traffic congestion. Public transport and freight tminals, commonly
referred to in Ghana as lorry parks, serve all forms of vehicles from private cars and taxis to
multi-axled trucks. Few are paved and there is no clear demarcation between access roads,
bus parking space and passenger waiting areas. There is little she!'er lbr passengers, sanitary
facilities are primitive, and refeshment facilities rudimentary. A Study for the Development
of Transport Terminals in Accra carried out for MOTC in 1992, revealed that there are 73
tmeinals, of which 51 serve intra-city vehicles. Thirty-three of the terminals are located
inside the Ring Road. Generally, they have sprung up near markets and at major
intersections. Their development has been ad-hoc, with litde account taken in their siting of
the impact of the vehicle and pedestrian affic they attact. Lack of planning also results in
vehicles following disruptive cross city routes and passengers having to change vehicles to
reach their destinations. Gove, ment has agree to study and implement agreed action plans
to: (a) improve the management of and cost recovery from, lorry parks and bus terminals;
and (b) improve the quality and quantity of public transport by identifying the most
appropriate regulatory options.



8
F.    1nandng gIthran 3k=VoW
3.23 'lb financing needed for rehabilitation and maintenance of Ghana's whole road
network is large; about US$110 million needs to be spent annually to clear the backlogs in
periodic madienance. Details of budgetary allocadons for the highway sector in the 1992-94
Public Investment Program (PIP) are given in AM 3-3 Government has agreed under the
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project ('IRP-l) that the PIP for the transport sector would
be reviewed annually and that Governnent would consult the Association before undertaking
major new investment projects costing more than US$5 miflion equivalent, not included in the
agreed PIP. The level of annual road rehabilitation and maintenance costs is expected to
stabilize at around US$60 million in and after 1998, to reach a target of 75% of roads in good
condition by the year 2000. The Government is conmitted to achieving full cost recovery
from 1994 onwards, and assurances to this effect were made during negotiations of the TRP-
11. The Government has successfully increased domestic resoturces allocated for road
n_inenance and rehabilitation between 1990 and 1992 from 26.9 billion cedis to 35.0 billion
cedis In 1992. However, because of the cedi's depreciation, this represents a small decline in
dollar terms, from US$81.5 million to US$77.8 mill-an.
3.24 Funding for road maintenance comes from the road fund and Government's central
budget. The road fund works relatively smoothly because it is simple and its administrion
costs are low. There are three sources of funds: fuel tax, which accounts for around 96% of
the ttal; -ehicle road-worthiness tax; and motorway tolls. The revenue accruing to the road
fund, the total amounts allocated to GHA, DFR and DUR and the amounts allocated to DUR,
for 1990 and 1991 are given in Table 1 below. Figures for the first seven months of 1992
show reenues of 13.5 billion cedis ($30.5 million) and total allocations of 8.8 billion cedis
($19.9 million). The MRH is responsible for deciding the relatve allocations to each of the
tee road agencies and these are varied annually to suit need. The balance of the road fund,
which was substantial in 1990, and indications are that 1992 would have been similar, goes to
the central budget. Revenues accruing to the road fund have been sufficient to meet the costs
of anmnal maintenance over the past three years. In the case of 1990 and as projected for
1992, there has been a substantial surplus.
Table 1: Road PFloEIws
1990                  1991
ROAD FUND                           Z million    $ million  ¢ million   $ million
Inflows                             12,400       37.6     10,940      29.2
Allocations to DUR                   1,090       3.3       3,150       8.4
Allocations to GHA, DFR and DUR     6,970        21.1     10,590      28.2
3.25 Regarding fimding for the maintenance of urban roads, it has been estimated that
about US$7.2 million is required in 1994 increasing to US$11.9 million by 1998 (see para
4.40) is needed for maintenance in the five project cities. Of this amount, about 20% is for
routine maintnane and the balance for periodic maintenance. A negtijinGovenment



9
&ag   to increase maintenance expendiure over the project period to the antounts referred to
above and for periodic maintenance funds to be allocated from the road fwid to simplify
administration and to improve the timeliness of releases (see para 4.40).
3.26  A study of possible somuces and mechanism  for raising additional finds for road
maintenance at the local government (MMAs) level identified parking fees largely the fees
charged at lorn; parks and bus terminals), an enhanced local vehicle licensing tax, and swes
and market licensing fees as the most promising sources. There appears to be considerable
scope for increasing revenue from parking fees as only 84.2 million cedis were collected in
1991 out of a potential 961.2 million cedis. Govemment a8ed to study and implement
mechanisms to increase collections (para 3.21) and to utilize part of the funds collected to
meet the maintenance requirements of the lorry parks and bus terminals. Agreement of this
cost recovery plan with the Association will be a precondition to signing the rehabilitation
contracts for the facilities. However, because total revenues being collected by the MMAs
are relatively low and in view of the fact that road users are already meeting the cost of
maintenance requirements through fuel taxes, it was agreed with Government that any balance
remaining from parking fees and additional revenues raised locally from the other sources
should be available for general local government expenditure.
G.    Past Bank Involvement in the Sector and Rationale for ContluiWn hnolveng
3.27 The Bank Group has supported four highway projects, three transport projects, and
three urban projects with road components since 1974. Four of these projects, tree transport
and one urban, are still being implemented. The strategy with these projects has been to: (a)
reduce costs and maximize reurns by concentratig on infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance rather than on new construction; (b) make project investments and policy
initiatives sustainable by building capacity in key agencies such as the Accra Metropolitan
Authority, the DUR and the GHA and by improving resource mobilization systems through
taxes and user charges; and (c) focus much of the benefits on urban and rural poverty groups.
These objectives have generally been met though implementation, particularly in the earlier
projects, has tended to be slower than planned. This ocured because: (a) the institutional
capacity of project agencies was sometimes overestimated, though this situation has improved
in recent years as the agencies gained experience with Bank projects and their staff benefitted
from project funded technical assistance and training; and (b) project agencies were unfamliar
with the Ban's procurement procedures and Government's decision-making process for
procurement was over-centralized. Improvements are apparent in current project as a result
of procurement training, greater delegation of authority and streamilning of the process.
3.28   Although the Bank has been involved in infrastructure works in Ghana for alst 20
years attetion has only been given to the urban sector since 1985 with the Accra Disict
Rehabilitation Project (ADRP). ADRP, began to address some of the problems experienced
by urban dwellers, who comprise one third of the whole population, by fonowing the strategy
oudined above. It was particularly successful in building project management and
implementation capacity in DUR and administrative and financial capacity in AMA. The
problems arising from deteriorated urban roads and traffic congestion In Accra and Ghans
other four main cities were recognized and studies were funded to id,-*  means of
overcoming them. It is the key recommendations of these studies, which were ubsently
taken through the detailed design phase under the Urban II project, that are being proposed



10
for implementation In this project. The Bank, with this past history of involvement in the
urban and transport sectors, was able to play a unique role in assisting Government to develop
an urban transport sector policy (see para 3.29) and to design this project to promote the
policy. The project fits into our country assistance strategy in that it will benefit the poor,
both directly through improved access to selected low and middle-income areas and the
provision of bicycle paths, and indirectly through improvements in the quality and efficiency
of public transport services. The project will benefit the private sector by lowering the
operating costs and increasing the profitability of urban public transport vehicles, which in the
cities are almost entirely privately operated, and all design, supervision, construction and at
least 80% of maintenance works, will be carried out by private companies. The
environmental impact will be positive in that the long term beneficial aspects of reduced fuel
consumption, safer roads, and improved drainage will outweigh the short term noise and dust
problems during construction.
H.    Sector Policy
3.29  In 1992 Government commissioned consultants to prepare an Urban Transport Policy
Action Program. This program, which reflects inputs from all organizations involved in the
sector, both public and private, has been adopted by Government. It sets down means of
resolving the issues identified in the sections above and provided the foundation for this
project. The key elements of the Government's policy are to: (a) improve policy coordination
(an Urban Transport Unit has already been established as a focal point for this); (b) increase
funding allocations for road maintenance; (c) contract out of at least 80% of maintenance
works to the private sector; (d) improve the management of and cost reoovery from transport
terminals; (e) encourage private sector participation in public bus companies; (f) provide non-
motorized transport facilities; and (g) improve road safety. Goveroment has confirmed their
adoption of these policies in a letter of Urban Transport Policy sent to the Association (see
Annex 3-4).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
4.1    Commerce, industry and services will continue to grow rapidly as the Ghanaian
economy expands, and much of the growth in these sectors will be in cities. If cities lack the
necessary infrastructure and services, the expansion of the urban economy, which is becoming
an increasing part of the national economy, will be constrained. Urban transport is one of the
most important services to be considered. This project will strive to: (a) increase the quaity
of urban transport services; (b) improve the efficiency with which they are produced
(especially by reducing the cost and the time lost); (c) ensure the  in urban
transport services are sustained (especially through institutional reform, cost recovery and
maintenance); and (d) make access to urban transport services more equitable (by ensuring
that the urban poor benefit from services). The project will also: (a) improve sector policy
development and planning by establishing formal coordination between the various



11
organtions involved; (b) increase safety, paricularly for pedestrians and the users of non-
motorized transport; and (c) reduce fuel consumption and air pollution in the cities.
B.    DecdDUm
Introducllon
4.2    The project has five main components:
(a)   road rehabiitation;
(b)   traffic management Improvements;
(c)   rehabilitation of lorry parks and bus terminals;
(d)    non-motorized trsport facilities and access improvements to low-income
areas; and
(e)    isttional strengthenng of central and local government agencies.
4.3 Accra will be the main focus of the infrastructure rehabilitation effort because It has
the highest population, most traffic and greatest congestion. Rehabilitation works will also be
carried out in the central business district of Sekonditrakoradi, which suffers from localized
congestion. Lorry parks and bus terminals will be rehabilitated, and traffic management
improved, in all five of the project cities.
4.4   The non-motorized transport component is a pilot program to promote the use of
bicycles as a cheaper means of transport for low and middle-income earners, in the south of
Ghana. This pilot program will be locatd in Accra, which has the highest concentation of
potenti users. The technical assistance effort wil cover both central, and local, government
institutions, and wDi seek to improve sector coordinaion, policy development and general
management capabilities. Each of the five main project components is descibed in greater
detail below.
Road RehabiHtation
4.5    Accra CenabW  Bwiess Did (CBD) Details of the roads to be rehabilitated are
given in Ann= St and their locations are shown in map IBRD 24621. These roads, which
are the most heavily trafficked and congested arterWal routes in the country, are the key
elements of the Arteria Steet Master Plan prepared in 1988. Rehabilitation of these roads,
together with the complementary trafflc management improvements included in the project,
wil ease traffic flow in central Aecra and improve east/west movements across the city.
Because of competing demands and limited available resources, only the highest priority CBD
roads have been included in the project.
4.6   Ile road rehabilitation works, as well as providing smooth and durable nning
surfaces, will also include improved junctions; road-side drainage; laybys for public transpon;
paridog bays in shopping areas; and fimctional sidewalks and protected pedestrian crossings.



12
Careful scheduling of construction, to minimize traffic disruption, will be essential, because
the road works in the project cover the whole CBD) and work Is expected to continue on
another two major arterial routes to the end of 1995. Account has been taken of the need for
diversions in the designs and obligations placed on the contractors, in the contract documents,
to accommodate traffic during construction.
4.7   Sekondi/Takoradi CBD Roads The roads to be rehabilitated in Sekondi/Takoradi are
located in and around the highly congested center of Takoradi. The main heavily trafficked
road linking Takoradi to Sekondi is also included. They formed part of a package of
recommended remedial measures arising out of studies carried out in 1989. Details of the
studies, the rebabilitation and associated traffic management works, which includes the
introduction of one-way traffic flow on certain roads, are given in Annex 4-2.
Traffic Management Improvements and Accident Reduction Mea -
4.8    Thtffc Management Imprvements Th e capacity and safety oi tne existng road
network in all five cities will be improved through the provision of more effective traffic
management measures. These include the use of local widening at critical junctions, multi-
phase and linked traffic signals, one-way traffic flow, controlled pedestrian crossings,
improved road signs and road markings, and better regulated parking. Details of the
measures for Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi, which have been designed to complement the road
rehabilitation components, are given in Annexes 4-1 and 4-2. Designs and tender documents
have also been prepared for a further 18 junctions in Accra (see map IBRD 24620 for
locations and Annexc  for details). Studies carried out in Kumasi and Tema during 1989
identified critical junctions for improvement. These junctions, together with key junctions in
Tamale, will be reassessed by DUR during the project and improvement designs prepared and
implemented. The design strategy adopted for all junctions has been to maximize traffic
capacity and pedestrian safety, while minimizing landuse and the disruption of existing utility
services.
4.9   Accdent Reduc£on Measwws Traffic accidents have very high social and economic
costs. The majority of accidents occur at a few locations. Ihese locations, and their relative
prinrity, can readily be identified if the occurrence of accidents is methodically recorded. The
procedures and data recording equipment necessary to do this were put in place under TRP-I
and further institutional and operational assistance will be provided under this project (see
para 4.15). Under this project, $1.8 million will be allocated for remedial and preventative
works at the most accident-prone locations in the five main cities. These remedial works will
vary from relatively simple measures like lane marking, sign-posting, and the provision of
lay-byes, to more substantial realigunents of roads and junctions.
4.10   Rebaton of Lony Parks and Bus Teminals(PublcTanspot Termnals)
This component focuses on improving the physical condition of the busiest termnals in all
five project cities. Management of, and cost recovery from, the terminals also needs to be
improved and technical assistance will be provided (see paras 3.25 and 4.23) to assist UTU to
study the problem and develop policies and for the MMAs to implement procedures to
address this. The study will also review the numbers and locations of parks and terminals
with a view to consolidating them and linking locations to destinations served, more
rationally. However, there is an immediate need for improvements to the surfacing, drainage,
access control, lighting, and the provision of shelter, sanitary and refreshment facilities to
selected terminals in all five main cities. Bicycle storage facilities will also be provided to



13
complement the non-motorized transport component (see para 4.11) and to encourage people
to cycle to and from terminals. To these ends, studies were commissioned in 1992 to make
inentories of facilities, assess traffic utlization, and to make proposals on terminal and
public transport route consolidation for the five cities. On the basis of data collected, cost
estimates were prepared for the highest priority terminals. Prioritization criteria were: current
demand; public ownership of the site; compatibility between the type of transport and area
served i.e. intra-city terminals; safe and convenient access; and adequate space for viable
development. Details of the terminals to be improved are given in Annex 45 and the
locations of the Accra terminals are shown in map IBRD 24620.
Non-Motorized Transport Facilities and Access Improvements to Low-Income Areas
4.11 Pilet Bike Paths In support of Government's policy to provide balanced development
of transport modes, the project will fiance construction of around SOkm of dedicated cycle
paths connecting low and middle-income residential areas to commercial and business
districts. Cycle lanes/tracks have also been incorporated as part of the road rehabilitation
designs for Accra, either within the road reservation or parallel to the route, as space permits.
In the proximity of markets, the tracks/lanes will be wide enough to accommodate the
manually pushed trolleys, which are widely used to transport goods. The route locations are
indicated in map IBRD 24620 and furher details are provided in Annex 4-6.
4.12 Integrated Bike Path Network Study The pilot paths will form the initial phase of an
integrated bike path network for Accra. A study, which will produce a master plan for the
development of a comprehensive network for the whole city, will be undertaken in parallel.
4.13   Access Improvements to Low Income Area  and Markets The purpose of this
component is to connet th aevn low-income areas in Accra identified as having the worst
access problems to main arterial routes, with basic surfaced roads, thereby reducing the
operating costs of public transport. The location of the areas is given in Map 24620, and
details of the areas and roads are given in Annex 43. lhe two lane roads, which will follow
existing unsurfaced roa4s or tracks, will be 7.3m wide and surfaced with two layers of
dressing. In order to nimize costs, drainage will be limited, wherever possible to road-side
drains. However, several of the areas are low-lying and it will be necessary to channel water
courses away from the road to avoid erosion. Access to selected markets will also be
improved by constructing, or designating, dedicated tracks or lanes for non-motorized
transport, such as hand-carts, between lorry parks and markets.
Inslitutional Strengthening of Central and Local GovernmeLit Agencies
4.14   Vehicle Examinaion and licensing Depamaent (VELD) UTU, with the assistance
of consultants, will carry out a study and assist VELD to implement improvements in vehicle
inspection and drive training programs. To increase VELI)'s effectiveness they will be
provided with vehicle testing equipment for their inspection facilities in Accra, Tamale and
Koforidua (see Annex 4-7 for details) and a new testing facility will be built at Tamale.
4.15 Budng ad Road Resarch Institute (BRRIU) Government has agreed to implement
by June 1994 revised procedures for more systematic collection of accident data by the MTU
and for the subsequent analysis of this data by the BRRI to enable identification and
prioritization of locations where accidents occur frequently. UTU, with the assistance of
consultants, will study existing procedures and help implement improvements. The results of



14
BRRI's analyses will be passed on to DUR who will design and implement improvement
measures (see para 4.9). To enable BRRI to process accident data more effectively they will
be provided with two personal computers, a photocopier and minor office supplies.
4.16  NattenaRead S4fedy ComNee (NRSC) g mm    age  at negiat dsthat
UTU, with the assistance of consultants, would assist the NRSC to design by September 1994
and Implement by January 1995 a road safety program aimed particularly at pedestrians and
cyclists (see para 4.24). The NRSC will be provided with a vehicle equipped with a public
address system, film and video equipment and a photocopier, to mount the road safety
program. The UTU will also assist NRSC to establish regional committees and provide
advice on road traffic legislation.
4.17  Motor T1ffc Unit (MT[1   In order to improve the enforcement of traffic legislation,
the MTU wfll be provided with vehicles, two trucks, radar guns, breath anayzers and radios
for their units in Accra, Kumasi Selondifrakoradi and Tamale.
4.18  DUR, AURUwndDRUs Approximately 80% byvalueofalmaintenanceiscarried
out by the private sector and Governmuent has agreed tc at least maintain this level of
contracting out for the duration of the project. Routine  aintenance work is mainly carried
out by the direct labor forces of the DRUs. Government has no contracted out these
activities because they have doubts about the private sector's ability to respond quickdy to
emergencies. Ihe validity of these concerns will be studied under the project (see para 4.29).
At present DUR and the DRUs do not have the equipment required to operate efficiently. An
assessment of existing equipment inventories and desirable work practices revealed a need for
light portable equipment e.g. small compactors, portable bitumen mixers, light duty vehicles
to cary operatives to work sites, and for mini hot-mix plants, to accommodate the
maintenance requirements of the growing length of asphaltic conrete roads in Accra and
Kumasi. It is proposed that equipment and spares costing US$2 mUlion are supplied under
the project. More detailed information and a costed list of the equipment is given in Annec
4:.
4.19 The DUR does not bave sufficient vehicle and office support resources to enable them
to effectively meet the demands of the heavy worldoad imposed upon them. A personal
computer will be provided for DUR headquarters and each city to enable them to operate the
Maitnan  Management System to be introduced under the project (see pam 4.29). Office
equipment such as drawing chests and filing cabinets will also be provided. Detafls are given
in Annex 4-8.
4.20   Town ad Country Plnning Dwannmt (TCP) A study will be commisined and
measures implemented to increase the effectiveness of TCP's development conrol records. It
is enviaged that this will require a personal computer and a photocopier in TCP's offices in
each ciq. A plan printer is also required for Sekondirakoradi. Double cab pick-ups and
motorcycles will be provided to enable the department to process development applications
quicker and to monitor road resev,ations for encroachment more effectively. Details are
given In Annex49.



IS
Techaicl Assistance
4.21 Techuical assistance will be provided for: () policy support; (ii) project preparation
and implemenaion support; and (iii) insttutiona development. A brief descriptio tI 'lows
of what is to be provided under these three categories, to each of the project agencit-
Poicy Support
4.22  MIity of Thuispoit and CotuioaR s e           &bLknwet of an Urbian lTsPut
Unit Government has acted on the recommendations of the Urban Transport Policy Action
Program (see para 3.4) by setting up a two tiered committee structure with a ministeria level
policy making c; nmittee, supported by a high level technical committee of senior officials.
An Urban Transport Unit (UTU, has also been created within the MOTC to facilitate
coordination between all government and private sector bodies involved in urban transport and
to provide the secretariat for the technical committee.
4.23 The UTU is headed by a Deputy Director and has a staff of two transport planning
professionals. Government alreed at nemodatlons to one addition  professional transport
planner or economist being added to the unit per year between 1994 and 1996 (three years).
nitia policy formulation which will be developed in consultation with DUR, MLG and the
MMAs shall focus on: regulatory options for improving the quantity and quality of public
transport; management of lorry parks and bus terminals; management of parking in the main
cities; and options for private sector participation in the Government owned bus companies.
gQnmegKge1 at Wghi mt1ons to the recruitment by Janmary 1994 of an experienced
urban transport advisor for two years to provide assistance with establishing the units work
program and policy deveopmen  and to provide onthe-job training. Short tem specialists
will also be contracted to assist with the studies on the policy Issues listed above. As the
UTT develops the skills necessary to fulfil its role within M0TC it will work in close
association with the Parking and Traffic Units which will be established in each of the main
cities. Terms of reference for the UTU, the urban transport advisor, and the short term
speclist inputs are given in  Am  4-1 .
4.24  Road S4fety Progrm  The UTU will also prepare and implement an urban road
safety program focussing on driver education, pedestrians and NMV users. This will build
on previous assistance provided under TRP-I and will be complementary to that included in
TRP-II which has its main focus on the trunk road network. Gover,nent aged to the
recruitment by April 1994 of an experienced road safety advisor to provide 12 months of
input spread over the project period, to assist with the preparation and implementation of the
road safety programn. Details of the road safety program and tems of reference for the road
safety specialist are given in Annex4-11.
4.25   Depant of Ud,a Rods - Organ_mton and MaJ       en    Stud  Govrnment
jS=d  to cafry out an organization and managemt sdy of DUR by December 1994. Ibe
study will make recommendations on the following: (a) the most apropriate organiztional
strucwre and staffing level (numbers and classification) to enable DUR to fulfil its current
responsibilities; (b) how the Department should evolve as the cities gradually take over direct
responsibility for roads; (c) the resources required to extend operations to Tamale; and (d) an
assessme  of training needs and the preparation of a trining progm for professional staff



16
and opeatives designed to meet the needs arising from the above recommendations to be
funded under this project. Detailed terms of reference are given In Annex 4-12.
4.26 Establishment of Parking and 7rqfflc Unts in the MMAs The five MMAs wi1l be
provided with management and engineering consultancy support, vehicles, comnication
equipment and office equipment to assist them establish parking and traffic units. The units
will Implement the recommendations of the studies on management of lorry parks and bus
terminals and vehicle paring (see para 4.23). It is envisaged that this will entail: (a)
developing, managing and maintaining parking infrastructure; (b) liaising with private sector
developers of parking facilities; (c) collecting and monitoring parking revenues; and (d)
liaising with their respective roads units to maintain the parking facilities. The units will also
monitor and manage traffic and liaise with the MTU on the enforcement of traffic legislation.
The units are described in more detail and a list of the vehicles and equipment to be provided
to each city is given in Anngz-A1.
Project Preparation and Implementation Support
4.27  Depa'ment of Urban Roads - Consultunc Inputs DUR will need etensive
assistance from consultants to cope with the design, supervision and studies arising from the
p.ject. A total of 790 months will be required; 90 months for detailed design, 142 months
for studies. 536 months for supervision and 22 months of management assistance; 621 months
wll be provided by local consultants and 169 months by international consultants. Details of
the inputs on individual project components and projected costs are given in Annex 414.
4.28 Projed Management Support While construction of the various project components
will be supervised by consultants, DUR's contract management capacity, particularly their
ability to deal with contractor's claims, will have to be strengthened and effective internal
management systems developed for liaising with other affected institutions e.g. public utilities,
police, and transport operators in order to minimize disruption to normal life in the cities.
Financial management of the contracts will also be of critical importance in order to avoid
delays in contractor's payments, which will ultimately increase the overall project cost. Since
its inception DtR has built up a core of skilled and dedicated professionals. They Are,
however, relatively young and none has been exposed to the size and complexity of the
contracts in this project. They are also too few to cope with the work load of this and other
projects. Three local professionals, two engineers and an accountant, have already been
contracted to the end of 1994 under Urban n to provide assistance to cope with the work-load
generated by that project. Their contracts will be extended for three years, from 1995 to
1997 under this project. Govermnent alsoagrMed at zgoi   to (a) the recruitment of a
Contract Management Specialist, either a professional civfl engineer or a quantity surveyor X
anditi  of ffectiveness, and (b) the recruitment by January 1994 of a Municipal
Engineer. Each will be recruited for 36 monts. The contrast management specialist wil
also provide on-the-job training for DUR's engineers. TOR for these staff are given in Am
4.29  Maintenance Manag ten System DUR requires a maintenance management system
(MMS) to: (a) enable decisions to be made on which roads to mainain each year; (b) estimate
the optimum level of expenditure that should be made on them; and (c) determine the
optimum balance of work between the private sector and the Department's direct labor forces
for economy and reliability with particular emphasis on the implications of contracting out
routine maintenance. It will also enable performance standards to be developed for



17
contractors and direct labor. International consultants wIll be hired to develop and implement
the MMS which will be designed to be compatible with the GHA system and also with the
MIS system being developed for MRH. It is estimated that 20 months of input will be
required. The terms of reference for this consultancy are given in Annex416. 4omn16
agme  to complete the study by December 31, 1994, adopt the design by March 1995 and
commence implementation of the MMS by July 1995.
Institutional Devdopment
4.30  St4ff Traidl g An outline training program (see Annx 417 for details) has been
prepared to build up the necessary in-country urban trnport expertise, for selected staff from
MOTC, DUR, MLG and TCP. Government agreed at negotiations to submit detailed training
programs by March 31, 1994 for calendar year 1994 and for traning plans for subsequent
years to be submitted annually and agreed with the Bank by December 1 of the preceding
year. lhe plans for subsequent years shall take account of experience gained from the
training programs of preceding years.
4.31   Opeaive Training $70,000 has been allocated to provide on-the-job training for the
AMRU and DRU operatives in road and mechanical maintenance. Design of the program
will be carried out as part of the organization and management study (see para 4.25). The
training facilities and methods developed under TRP-I and being continued under TRP-II will
be utilized as much as possible.
4.32   Provlvion of Ho i4  DUR has experienced problems in attracting and retaining the
high caliber of professioi.--. saff it requires. In order to improve incentives, the project will
provide assistance with the wnstruction of modest office premises and houses for DUR's field
staff. DUR's headquarters staff have only 150 m7 of office space in temporary
accommodation located within AMRU's yard. TIis is insufficient to meet the needs of
existing staff without taking account of the additional staff required for this project. Provision
has therefore been made to consruct new office premises within Accra.
C.    Status of Preparation
4.33 An Urban Transport Policy Action Program, which identified the koy components of
the project, was prepared in June 1992 by consultanu commissioned by MOTC. The policy
related components center on the Urban Transport Unit, which Government has already
established within the Planning and Implementation Division of the MOTC. Terms of
reference have been prepared for the various technical assistance specialists and consultancies
and detailed lists of equipment required to support the implementation agencies drawn up.
4.34 Detailed designs and tender documents are expected to be completed for the Accra
and Sekondi/Takoradi road rehabilitation works, the junction Improvements and NMT tracks
by May 1993. Goveent agreed at negotiations a a coditiQn of redit effectiveness to: (a)
employ utility contractors for the relocation of public utility services in the roads to be
rehabilitated in Accra; and (b) prequalify contractors to bid for the road rehabilitation works
in Accra and SekondiUTakoradi. Detailed design for the rehabilitation of public trasport
teminals and access improvements to low income areas and markets will be undertaken by
consultants in 1993.



18
D.    Implmetato
4.35   The main implementon agencies will be the Urban Trnsport Unit (UTU) within
MoTC and the Department of Urban Roads within the MRH. Full terms of reference for the
UTU are given in Annex -. The unit's primary objective will be to develop and provide a
focus for coordinating urban transport policy. It will also be the secretariat for the technical
committee of the Iner MiisterW Steerg Committee (see para 4.22) and, with the assiance
of consultants, will design and implement the road safety progrm.
4.36   DUR will be responsible for manging and supervising construction of the
infaructure components. DUR's staff are familiar with Bank procedures and have been
responsible for the implemention of previous Bank projects (ADRP and PWP). However,
as this project will increase their workoad significantly, consultants will be commissioned to
supervise virtually all works and expedenced specialists will be contracted to provide a total
of eleven years input to assist with project management. These specialists will also provide
training to DUR's staff. The project implementation schedule is given In AM 4-1 and a
matrix of performance indicators is included in Annex 23. An Implementation Manual,
setng out in detail the duties and obligations of each project agency, will be prepared in
advance of the Project Launch Workhop, which is scheduled for October 1993. The project
is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998 and the credit will be closed on December 31,
1998.
E.      limated  lel    t,
4.37 The estimated total cost of the project is US$87.6 million (including taxes), with a
foreign exchange component of US$60.0 million equivalent or 68% of project cost. Import
duties and taxes on the project related hnports are estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent.
Base costs are estimated in Janury 1993 prices and at an exchange rate of US$1 = 550
cedis. Physical contingencies of 10% of base costs have been included for all components
except technical assistance. Price contingencies bave been calculated for foreign costs using
international price inflation factors of 3.9% for 1993 and 1994 and 3.8% per year thereafter
and domestic price inflation factors of 25% for 1993, 15% for 1994, 10% for 1995, and 5%
per year thereafter. The estimated cost of the project is detailed in Ani4A19 and is
summarized in Table 2 oelow.



19
Table 2: Summ    of Prjec Costs
(US$ million)
Estited Costs                                Local       Foreg         Tota
Road Rehabilitation                         10.9         25.4        36.3
Traffic Management Inprovements              2.4          5.5          7.9
Trnsport Terminal Rehabilitation             2.0          4.6          6.6
Improved Access to Poverty Areas             3.2          7.4         10.5
Equipment for Inst. S, -ngthening            1.0          2.3          3.3
Technical Assistance & Training              3.6          4.8          8.4
BASE COST (January 1993)                23.1         50.0         73.0
Physical Contingencies                       1.9          4.5         6.5
Price Contingencies                          2.6          S.5          8.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      27.6         60.0         87.6
4.38 For all the major civil works components, construction cost estimates are based on
quantities calculated by consultants preparing detail designs and using unit rates from recetly
awarded contracts for similar works. The estimated coss of traffic management
improvements, tranwsport terminal rehabilitation, and NMT components are based on quantities
calculated from preliminary engineering designs and unit rates for similar works. 'Te
technical assistance costs are based on recent average mannmonth rates for similst consulting
services in Ghana.
F.       W           dg
4.39 The financing plan is summarized in Table 3 below. An IIDA credit of SDR 55
million (US$76.2 million equivalent) would finance 90% of the total project costs excluding
duties and taxes, or 100% of foreign costs and 67% of local costs, exclusive of duties and
taxes. Government atred at neoations to: (a) the project countepart funds being deposited
in separate project accounts opened by DUR and MOTC; (b) payment of initial deposis of
US$662,000 equivalent and US$13,000 equivalent to DUR and MOTC respectively for
calendar year 1993 as a condition gf credit effectiveness; and (c) funds being deposited
quarterly in advance from calendar year 1994 on the basis of ammal disbursement estimates
prepared by Government and reviewed with e Bank by October I of thae preceding year.
(Iine disbursement estimate given in AnM A421 will be adopted for 1994).



20
Table 3: riec Einancing
(US$million)
Local         Foreign         7thal
Funds RetuiW
DUR                                   26.6           58.1           84.7
MOTC                                   J0            iJ             .12
TOTAL REQuntEMENTS                                  0L§
Sources of Funds
IDA                                   16.2           60.0           76.2
6000                                  11.4          ..4             11.4
TOTAL SOURCES                        §§5
4.40  In addition to this investment allocation  ovmme  weed to: (a) increase the annl
allocation for road maintenance in line with the allocation schedule below; and (b) provide the
fumds quarterly in advance; these allocations are to be made from the road find and central
budget.
Table 4: AllQgoio Schedule
US$ million equivalent
1994   1995   1996   1997    1998
Annual Allocation, Periodic Maintenance  5.2    6.2    7.2      8.2     9.2
Anmu  Allocation, Routine Maintenance    2.0    2.2    2.5      2.6     2.7
Equivalent Combined Allocation per Quarter    2.5    2.8    3.1  3.2    3.3
G. Procument
4.41   Procurement arrangements for the project are summaized in Table 5 below. A more
detailed description of the procurement arrangements, which includes the number of contrcs
to be awarded, is given in Annex420.



21
Table 5: Summary f Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US $ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Blement        ICB        LCB      OTHER      N.B.P.    Total Cost
1. Works contas for intructe     51.60     23.53                            7S.13
reablliulion and pilot bi paths.  (43.96)    (20.32)                       (64.28)
2. Supply of goods - equipment and  2.17    0.57       1.01                  3.75
vehicles for institudonal       (1.88)    (0.49)     (0.88)                 (3.25)
strengthening.
3. Technial asstnce-                                   8.68                  8.68
consubnoies and trauiing for poloy                   (8.68)                 (8.68)
suppOrt, project prepation and
implementation, and insutional
development.
TOTAL PROJECT                53.77      24.10       9.69                 87.56
(45.84)    (20.80)   (9.56)                (76.21)
4.42 More than 95% by value of procurement will be managed by DUR. As well as
managing the procurement activities for which they are directly responsible they will also
coordinate and manage the procurement of road maintenance equipment for the DRUs.
MOTC will manage their own procurement and will also coordinate the procurement of goods
and technical assistance on behalf of VELD, BRRI, MTU, MLG and TCP and technical
assistance for the MMAs. Both DUR and MOTC are familiar with Bank procurement
procedures through their involvement in past and ongoing urban and transport sector projects.
Goods and civil works contracts financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance with IDA
procurement guidelines.
4.43   Contacts for civil works estimated to cost individually more than $1.5 million and for
goods, more than $200,000, will be procured through ICB. Eligible domestic contractors
who bid for civil works under ICB will receive a 7 1/2 percent preference in bid evaluation.
Eligible domestic manufacturers who bid for goods contracts under ICB will receive a
preference of 15% of the CIF bid price, or customs duties and taxes, whichever is the lower.
Civil works contracts estimated to cost less than $1.5 million and goods up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$570,000 will be procured by LCB procedures which require: local
advertising, public opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria, and contracts awarded to ihe
lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Foreign bidders are permitted to participate in LCB.
The first LCB document will be reviewed by the Bank before it is released to bidders. It is
anticipated that there will be eleven ICB contracts ranging in value from US$1.5 million to
US$16 million with a total aggregate value of US$53.77 million. The ICB contracts wil
include fte large road rehabilitation works and the traffic management improvements, which
will involve the supply and installation of specialized signalling equipment. Around 23 LCB
works contracts are planned, valued individually under US$1.5 million with an aggregate limit
of $24.10 million. These relatively simple works contracts which include the access
improvrements, lorry park and bus terminal rehablitation and pilot bike paths will be carried
out in the five project cities and will be implemented over the whole project period in order to



22
spread both the worldoad and the financial burden on the Government (see the Impletation
Schedule, Annex 41 for details). Because of their size and dispsal around the country,
they are unlikely to be of interest to contractors based outside of Ghana, though foreigl
contracts will be permitted to bid if they so wish. Experience on previous projects confirms
that there are sufficient competent local contractors to provide effective competition for these
works. Five LCB contracts for goods with an aggregate limit of $570,000 are planned.
Goods valued at less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate value of US$650,000
will be procured by prudent shopping based on at least three quotations. lTis will apply to
around 9 contracts for the supply of a small number of vehicles, computers and office storage
systems for 7 different organizations. As the agencies will require inputs at different times
e.g. to coincide with technical assistance inputs and to implement the recommendations of
studies, it is not considered feasible to group them. Where feasible, goods under prudent
shopping will be procured from the Inter Agency Procurement Service Office (IAPSO) of
UNDP located in Copenhagen. Any other procedure will have to be based on demonstrated
advantage to the client in terms of cost. Spare parts and accessories, which are of proprietary
nature, may be purchased, with IDA's prior agreement, under directly negotiated contracts
from original manufacturers/suppliers or their authorized agents, up to an aggregate value of
US$350,000.
4.44 Consultancy contracts of estimated value US$4.8 million will be awarded. These will
provide around 790 person months of input, 169 months and 621 months from international
and local consultants respectively. Of the total, 142 months are required for studies, 90
months for design, 22 months for management assistance and 545 months for supervision (see
Anne4  for details). Local consultants have the capability and experience to handle most
engineering studies and the design and supervision of the access road, lorry park and bus
terminal rehabilitation and NMT path works. However, international consultants are required
to assist with transport policy development and to supervise the large road rehabilitation
contracts.  ernent ageed that: (a) consultants will be selected following Bank guidelines
for the selection of consultants; and () Bank's Sample Bidding Documents, Letter of
Invitation, and Sample Consultant's Contract suitably modified, will be used for works, goods
and consultancy contracu. Procurement docu   n and arrangements for each consutant
contract amounting to US$100,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA.
However, this exceDtion to prior Bank review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for all contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-source
hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by IDA, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to IUS$100,000 equivalent or above.
4.45 Civil works contracts above a threshold of US$1 million and goods contracts above
US$200,000, will be subject to the Bank's prior review; this will cover about 95% by value
of such procurement. Prequalification of contors will be carried out for all ICB contracts
in excess of US$10 million. Procurement activities will be closely monitored against
performance indicators (see para 4.50 and Annex2). Progress will be reviewed monhly
by the Resident Mission's infrastructure staff, during supervision missions and via quarterly
reports prepared by DUR and MOTC. Procurement delays have been a problem on previous
projects but improvements are expected following Government's action in September 1992 to
streamline procedures and the increase in manpower resources supporting infrastructure
projects at the Resident Mission since February 1993.



23
4.46   Ihe proposed credit of US$76.2 million equivalent h expected to be disbursed over a
pedod of five and a balf years with completion being acbieved by December 31, 1998. Ihe
estinated disbursement schedule, which is given in Table 6 below (see .=m-4 21 for more
details), assumes slightly faster disbursement than represented by the standard profile for
disbursemens on transport projects in Ghana. Improved disbursement is expected becase
DUR are experienced In Bank procurement and detailed design and tender documents will be
available for around US$46 million of civil works by June 1993.
Table 6: Difutrsements
IDA Amount
Category                       (USSm)         % of Bxediu  to be FImancd
1. DUR - Road Rehabion, Taffic Management
Improvemets, Trnsport Tonrnal Rehabilaton,
Access Roads to Low-come hrean, and NLot
NMV Palbs
(a) OI  Civil Wors - Road Rdeabilitation,         43.94       100% foreign exp   urs
Trafti Management Improements                          55% lodcalexediture
and NMT Paths.
(ii) Civil Works - Rehabilitation of          13.17       100%  reign exendtu
Lorry Pa*s, and Bus Temins and                         55% local expditures
Construction of Aocoss Roads to
Low Income Areas
(b) Equipment and Vehicles                         2.07       100% foreign exnitur
55% local expeAndiue
(c) Consultant' Soervics and  amining              6.91       100% of total expenditures
(d) Incmental Operating Costa for DUR              0.05       100% of total exendiure
H. MOTC - Polic, mplemenati  and
Insitional Support
(a) Civil Work                                     0.06       100% foreign exediures
55% loc al epeditures
(b) Equipment and Veils                            0.85       100% forein expeiur
55% loca exenditur
(a) Consultants' Services and Taning               1.58       100% of totalependitures
(d) Inreental Operatig Costs for UTU               0.05       100% of total expndiure
m. Refund of PPF Advwa                                 0.25
IV. Unalocd                                            7.38
TOTAL                                     76.21



24
4.47  Two special acoounu, one operated by DUR and the other by UTU, will be set up in
banks acceptable to the Association to facilitate disbursements for project expenditures. In the
case of DUR, the special account will be operated by the same staff who competently
managed similar accounts for the ADIRP and Priority Works Projects. The UTU will be
supported by staff and consutants of MOTC's Planning and Implementaion Division who are
currety handling the TRP-I and TRP-I accounts. The accounts will be given an authorized
allocation of $1.5 million and $0.3 million respectively, sufficient to cover etimated eligible
disbursements over four months. Replenishment should be made on a monthly babis provided
that the amount is at least for US$300,000. All replenishments are to be fully documented
except for contracts for civil works valued that the amount is at least for US$300,000 in the
case of DUR and US$50,000 for UTU, which are to be claimed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs will be retained by the
Implementation agency and made available for review by IDA supervision missions and the
external auditors.
I.    Accounting and Auditing
4.48 DUR and MOTC will maintain accounts for their respective components. Both
organiztions bave already established appropriate accounting systems and auditing
arrangements under previous projects, and these arrangements are considered satisfactory for
this project. With respect to the amount withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, each agency will
prepare and maintain records such as contracts, invoices, and evidence of payments readily
available for inspection. Gvorment aged to project accounts being audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and audited financial statements (ong audits with management
letter), acceptable to IDA, being submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
ftinancial year. SpecilW Accounts and SOEs will be included in the audit and specifically
addressed in the Audit Report.
J.    Reporting and Monitoring
4.49   Govenment have agre to a project launch workshop and mid-term review. The
project launch workshop will be held in Accra around October 1993, shortly after the project
becomes effective. The Bank will be represented by engineering, financial, transport, training
and procurement specialists and all organizations benefitting from the project wiUl be invited
to attend. An implementation manual will be prepared for the workshop and distributed to all
participating organizations. During the course of implementation the project will be
superised by Bank headquaters staff in accordance with the supervision plan in Annex 4-22.
Ihis will be supplemented by monthly reviews of progress carried out by Resident Mission
staff. A mid-term review involving the Association and the various Government
implemening agencies will be carried out not later than April 30, 1996, to evaluate and
assess: (a) overall progress made in project implemention; 0) the performance of DUR and
MOTC as executing agencies; (c) the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding as well
as actual expenditures for maintenance; (d) progress with studies and implementation of
recommended action plans arising from them; (e) progress with the design and implementAion
of the maimenance management system; (f) performance of the improved management of, and



25
cost recovery from, the lorry parks and bus terminals; and (g) the need for redesign and/or
restructuring of project components. The mid-term review will also assess the results and
recmmendations of completed and ongoing technical assistance and training programs.
Government agred to the preparation by DUR and MOTC of ruAs covering the above
maters, the reports to be submitted to the Bank 60 days before the review.
4.50  Govament aged to provide quarterly progress reports covering all project
components, the reports to be prepared by each implementing agency and sent to IDA within
one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will cover the status of: procurement
and disbursement, commitments made under the project, progress on civil works, supply of
goods, technical studies, institutional accomplishments, sub-sector related issues, counterpart
funding allocations and maintenance expenditure (para 4.40); and progress achieved against
agreed performance indicators of project implementation and indicators of project impact
(detailed in Annex 4-2  on which Govemment agment was obtained at ReWadon. The
main purpose of the reports will be to provide managers timely and updated information on
the technical and financial performance of the project components, highlighting issues and
problem areas, recommending remedial actions as well as presenting action plans and financial
projections for the upcoming quarter. Each implementing agency will also prepare a project
completion report for their component and sent to the Association no later than three months
after the close of the credit.
V. DENEmM, lSAM AND RIM
A.      1MagaI l ulsiation
5.1   lTe project is designed to improve the efficiency and increase the capacity and safety
of urban public transport and road network operations in Ghana. It will reduce traffic conges-
ton and de"':y in urban areas by better organizing and controlling the flow of buses, other
motor vehicles and non-motorized transport. It will increase urban travel speeds and improve
access and circulation, which reduce passenger and freight transport costs and improve the
performance of the urban economy.
5.2   A broad cross-section of Ghana's population will benefit fom improvements in urban
transport. In particular, many of the urban poor concentrated in the largest cities will benefit
from improved transport to markets and mai roads. This will result in increased mobility
and better access to job opportunities brought about by improved bus sarvices, safer
pedestrian pathways, and increased bicycle usage. During the implementation period,
construction and service employment will be created for residents in the area.



26
B.    Economic and Other Benefits
Introduction
5.3   The economic analyses are descrbed in greater detail and cost/benefit and sensitvity
analysis tables for the road rehabilitation and traffic management improvement components in
Accra and Sekondifrakoradi for which costs and benefits can be quantified are incorporated in
Annex 51. Full details of the analysis are in the project file.
Economic Costs
5.4 The economic costs of the project include the investment costs consisting of final
design, construction, supervision and physical contingencies (ess price escalation, taxes and
duties). The costs of routine and periodic maintenance associated with the project roads have
been included in the economic analysis. Each of the 15 road sub-projects were costed
separately and then agegated to arrive at total costs for the Accra and Sekondifrakoradi
road rehabilitation components.
Economic Benefits
5.5    The economic benefits of the road rehabilitation works and related traffic management
improvements in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi which account for 56% by value of project
costs can be quantified in monetary terms. Additional location specific traffic management
improvements in Accra, SekondilTakoradi, Tema, Kumasi and Tamale were analyzed
separately. The other components that will contribute to improving urban transport, but for
which benefits could not be readily quantified include the pilot non-motorized transport
program, road maintenace magement assistance, and technical assistance and traiing.
The forecst economic rates of return for the project are described below, together with a
discussion of the other benefits that are expected to arise as a result of the implementation of
each component.
Urban Road Rehabiltation
5.6 The primary economic benefits of rehabilitating urban roads will be derived from
savings in vehicle operating costs. These benefits will arise as a reslt of smoother and more
regular road surfaces that will produce reductions in the conmption of fuel, spare parts and
other vehicle opeting costs. Improved road surfaces will also allow for higher vehicle
speeds, which will reduce time-related transport costs for both passengers and freight on the
project roads. However, only those benefits associated with vehicle operating cost savings on
the project roads were considered in the calculation of an overall ERR of 29% for the road
rehabilitation component as presented in Table 7.



27
Table 7: Economic Analysis - SUMMy of Economic Reurns
for Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi Road Reilitation and
Traffic Management Improvements
Road & Traffic Management         Economic Return
Sub-Projects                   RR, %)
ACCRA
A. Nkrimab/K. Thnompson                   25%
B. Casde/Adamsa                           23%
C. LiberWGraphic                          18%
D. Kinbu Road                             10%
E. Selwyn Market Street                   22%
F. Derby Avenue                           12%
G. Graphic Road                           33%
H. Barnes Road                            32%
Sub-Total                          23%
TAKORADI
TA. Market Circle                         19%
TC. Cape Coast                            11%
TD. Liberation                            26%
TF. John Sarbah                           45%
TG. Oheneba Mensah                        36%
TH. Axim                                  60%
TI. Sekondi                               70%
Sub-Total                          39%
TOTAL                       29%
Notes: Excludes time savings benefits.
5.7 The urban road rehabilitation and access improvements to low income areas and
markets will provide health, social and environmental benefits to the 1.5 million residents of
Accra. The resurfacing of arterial roads will improve pedestrian safety and access, and
increase the commercial atractiveness of adjacent shops and busiess establishments. This
wil benefft a number of businesses in central Accra as weol as residents living in the area.
Inproved road surfaces will allow for better control of storm water drainage, which reduce
standing water on the streets during.the rainy season and eliminate much of the ambient dust
during the dry season. Improved drainage will also reduce the exposure of nearby residents
to water-borne disease.



28
Tac Management
5.8   The benefits arising from the traffic management improvements related to the urban
road rebabilitation components in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi have been included in the
analysis of those components. Additional improvements in traffic management at other
locations in the five project cities, such as the signalization of intersections, constuction of
bus terminals, and traffic safety measures will produce savings in congestion costs as a result
of more orderly traffic flow and increased vehicle speeds. Congestion costs include the
vehicle operating costs associated with stop and go urban traffic cycles, primarily the very
high consumption of fuel and tires, and passenger delay costs. Consultant studies I/ of
selected intersections found approach speeds so low and delays so great that meaningful
capacity analysis was not possible. Thus, the proposed improvements in the design and
operation of the intersections are expected to increase speeds and reduce travel delay
significantly. Experience with similar traffic management and control projects in other
developing countries indicates economic returns in the range of 3050%.
5.9   Since traffic flows will be better organized through the implementation of signal
control at major intersections and improved channelization at the approaches to these
itersections, traffic safety hazards will be reduced. Signalization at the intersectios wil
provide protected pedestrian crossing phases, which wfll reduce pedestrian-vehicle eonflicts.
This will reduce the injuries, fatalities, property damage and economic losses related to traffic
accidents. The rehabilitation of lorry parks and bus terminas and improvements on their
management will increase bus speeds by reducing the turnaround time at the end of bus
routes. This will allow bus operators to make more trips and reduce operating and
maintenance costs. Passengers will benefit from travel time savings and access to more
frequent bus services.
Non-Motorized Tranport Paths - Pilot Program
5.10 This project component is a pilot program to promote and encourage the use of non-
motorized transport, primarily bicycles, in Accra. The paths, or in some cases demarcated
lanes, will enable bicyclists to ride in safety without obstructing vehicular traffic. The main
beneficiaries will be low and middle income residents who currently either walk or travel by
bus. As well as these direct user benefits, increased bicycle use will be environmentally
beneficial by reducing air and noise pollution and fuel consumption and it will also generate
employment through small scale sales, service and repair businesses. A meaningl economic
analysis cannot be carried out because of the difficulty in predicting future usage and in
quantifying the benefits to the users. However, annual surveys will be carried out after the
paths have been constucted to measure usage and to estimate the savings that are accruing to
cyclists so that ex-post analyses can be undertaken.
l/Mott MacDonald International, Ltd. and Watertech Engineers, Road an Drain
ft"habiation in Acemag Urban 11 Project, Detailed Design Report, September, 1991.



29
C.    Slitlits ^1fl
5.11 Sensitivity analyses were conducted to determine the effects of deferred maintenancee
delayed implementation, increased costs and reduced benefits. The results are summarized in
Table 8 below and are given In greater detail in Anmex S-1. These analyses indicate that the
project is economically robust; ERR's would remain above the acceptable rate of 12% for
cost increases up to 85% and for decreases in benefits up to 50%. Deferring routine
maintenance would, however, significandy reduce the ERR.
Table 8: Economic Analis - Summary of Sensitivity T=sts
All Accra and Takoradi Road Sub-Projects
Economic Return
Road Sub-Projects                 (ERR, %)
Base Cost                                          29%
TEST
1. No Overlay, Continued Routine Maintenance      28%
2. Deferment of Periodic and Routine Maintenance  20%1'
3. 1 Year Delay in Implementation                  19%
4. Costs 10% Higher and Benefits 20% Lower         19%
5. 85% Increase in Costs Alone                     12%
6. 50% D mcre in Benefits Alone                    12%
Notes: Excludes time savings benefits.
[I Based on Barnes Road (ERR reduces from 32% to 20%).
D.      inmental Imac
5.12   Overall this project will have a positive impact upon the urban environment. The
improvements include:
(a)    Better traffic management which should result in less traffic congestion with a
net reduction in motor vehicle emissions;
(b)    Safer conditions for many, particularly the poor, following the provision of
footways for pedestrians and paths for non motorized vehicles;
(c)    Smaller volumes of dust generated by motor vehicles following the surfacing
of roads in low income areas and public transport terminals; and
(d)   Improved public health conditions at public transport terminals through the
provision of properly designed toilet and restaurant facilities. Public health



30
will be improved generally trough the replacement of existing open dri  by
buried pipes on rehabilitated roads.
5.13   As this is a rehablitationproject with the works confined to existing rights of way or,
in the case of lorry parks and bus terminalst exising boundaries, there wil be no significant
impa on adjac. t proprty. Environmental assessment repors on the Accra and
SekondiTrakoradi Road Rehabilitation components have been reviewed by the Bank and are
acceptable. No residential properties will be demolished and no resetlement is required.
Some mature trees alongside the project roads will be lost but provision has been made in the
worsm contr   for planting new trees and including shrubs in the road medians. Noise leves
and dust generation will be a problem during construction but the effects will be mitigated by
liiting night working and frequent dousing of exposed surfaces. Quarries from which
construction material will be excavated will be left in a condition which minimies the chance
of subsequent ersion. The mitigation measures are described in greater detaU in Anneucx .
En ironment assessments will be made of the lorry park and bus temia rilitation
wors and access roads to low income areas when detaied designs have been completed.
Govenunenhas ageed that disbursement on these components will be conditional on
submission of environmeal assessment reports and adoption of necessary mitigation
measures that are acceptable to the Bank. Financial provision has been made in the project to
enable consultants to be hired for this purpose and also to monitor and evaluate the mitigation
meases for all project components.
E.
5.14 lhis project will bring significant beneflts to the urban poor. 'Direct benefits will
aise from the following components:
(a)    pedestrian facilities - this will provide safer conditions in the city centers of
Accra and SekondiTakoradi;
(O)    NMV paths - the paths connecting low and middle-income areas to the city
center will provide a low-cost alternative means of transport. The paths
improving access to markets wi1l benefit the market traders, most of whom
are women eanig a subsistence income;
(c)    paved access roads to selected low income areas - this wfll Improve mobilty
and lower transort costs by reducing the operaing and maintece costs of
public transport to these areas; and
(d)   rehabilitated public transport terminals - this will provide safer more sniay
conditions with improved amenities.
S.15  Indirect benefits are expected to arise from the lower costs of opeaing public
transport vehicles on rehabilitated, less congested roads. As entry to the public transot
marka is unresicted and fares are deregulated these savigs should be reected in lower
fars and better quality vehicles.



31
F.    Riloa
S.16 The main rlsks and the measures to be taken under the poject to mitigate them are:
(a)   securing timely counterpart funding from the Government - account has been
taken of the Govment's existing commitments and the project sized and
phased to suit. The   rart finding requirement for ths projet In 1994
represents less than 3% of Governments planned expenditure on highways;
(b)   sustaining the funding of road maintenance - Q ment aet at
ggoatiom to increase expenditures on urban road maintenance from $7.2
million in 1994 to $11.9 milion in 1998 with fiunds to be allocated from the
road fund and central budget. Existing levels of venue accruing to the road
fund are sufficient for this to be achieved (see para 3.23);
(c)   the difficulty of establishing effective coordination in the development and
implementation of policy amongst so many separate orgaizations, most of
wich are inadequaely funded and have insufficient trained personnel - the
project will seek to strengthen key organizations and foster coordination
rough the newly established Urb  Transport Unit and provision of technical
assistnce and taining. Imlementation of the project itself should not be a
major problem as both DUR and MOTC are familar with Bank procedures
fmm their participation in previous projects;
(d)   effective and sustained enforcement of traffic, regulations without which much
of the reductions in congestion secured through infiructure rehabilitation
and traffic management improvements will be lost - public awareness wil be
increased through a major road safety/better driving campaign timed to
concide with completion of the infrastructure works and the Motor Traffic
Unit will be provided with additional vehicles, equipment and trainig to
increase their effectiveness;
(e)   difficulty in gaining acceptance from the opeators for improved management
of the public transport terminals - the operaton wBI be repreented on the
Urban Transport Coordination Technical Committee and will be invited to
contribute to, and paricipate in, the drafting of new management procedures
which will be designed to benefit them as well as the travelling public; and
(f)   deays in inplementtion - this has been a problem in previous projects In the
urban and transport sectors. However, the MEEP issued a directive in
Sepmber 1992 streamlining prcuent procedures, which have been a
major cause of delay, and detailed desig and the preparation of tender
documents for the major project components wil be available by June 1993.
We therefore consider that the projected implementation schedule included In
Amex418 can be achieved.



32
VI. AGREEMETS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMDA
A. Agrements
6.1   In addition to standard covenants Government agreed on the following at negotiatons:
(a)   (i) DUR and MOTC to open separate project accounts; and (ii) the counterpart
funds to be deposited quarterly in advance on the basis of annual disbursement
estimates prepared by the Borrower and reviewed with the Bank by October I
of the preceding year (the disbursement estimate given in A ml A21 to be
adopted for 1994) (para 4.39);
(b)   Provision of increased allocations to DUR from the road fund and central
budget for all maintenance works on urban roads, these funds to be provided
to DUR at the beginning of each quarter (paras 3.24 and 4.40);
(c)    Complete a policy study by April 30, 1994 of means to improve the
management of, and recover costs from, iorry parks and bus terminals. A
cost recovery plan shall be agreed with the Association as a precondition to
signing the rehabilitation contracts for the facilities (para 3.25 and AiMA 4
M
(d)    Complete studies on the following by the dates indicated:
(D)    an organization and management study of DUR by D)ecember 31,
1994 (para 4.25 and Annex 4-12);
(,i)   the regulatory options for improving the quality and quantity of public
transport by September 30, 1994 (para 3.21 and AMx &I); and
(iii)   means of improving accident reportng by the MTU and anaysis of
the data by the BRRI by June 30, 1994 (para 4.15).
(e)    Add one transport planner or economist to the UTU per year between 1994
and 1997 (three years) to give a total professional staff of six by 1997 (para
4.23);
(t)    Design and implement a Maintenance Management System, which will include
a review of the implications of contracting out all maintevnace works and
training needs for the project period, the design to be completed by March 31,
1995 and implementation commenced by July 31, 1995 (para 4.29);
(g)   Recruit an Urban Transport Advisor for UTU, and a Municipal Engieer for
DUR by Jamnary 1, 1994, and a Road Safety Advisor for UTU by April 1,
1994 (paras 4.23, 4.24 and 4.28);



33
(b)   Design and implement a road safety program aimed particularly at pedestia
and cyclists, the design to be completed by September 30, 1994 and
implementation commenced by January 1, 1995 (para 4.16);
(i)    DUR will continue to contract out at lest 80% by value of all maintenance
works (pan 4.18);
(j)    Provision of detailed training programs for DUR, MOTC and MLG by March
31, 1994 for 1994 and programs for subsequent years by December I of the
preceding year (jara 4.30);
(k)   Implementation performance and project impact will be monitored against the
indicators set down In Am,23 (para 4.50);
(I)    A mid-term review involving the Association and the various Government
agencies involved in implementation will be carried out not later than April
30, 1996, to evaluate and assess: (i) overall progress made in project
implementation; (ii) the performance of DUR and MOTC as executing
agencies; (iii) the adequacy of the Borrower's counterpart funding as well as
actual expenditu  for maintenance; (iv) progress with the studies listed at (d)
above and design and implementation of the maintenance management system;
(v) performance of the improved management of, and cost recovery from, the
lorry parls and bus terminals; and (vi) the need for redesign and/or
restructring of project components. Tbe mid-term review will also assess the
results and recommendations of completed and ongoing technical assistance,
and training programs. DUR and MOTC to submit reports covering the
above matters 60 days befbre the review (para 4.49);
(in)   Consultants for engineering designs, civil works contract supervision, studies
and training will be selected following Bank guidelines for selection of
consultants; and Sample Bidding Documents, Letter of Invitation and Sample
Consultant Contract suitably modified will be used for engaging contractors
and consultants (para 4.44);
(n)   DUR and MOTC will prepare and fiunish to the Association quarterly
reports. The reports will cover the status of. procurement and disbursement,
commitments made un - de project, progress on civil works, supply of
goods, studies, institutional accomplishments, sub-sector related issues,
counterpart funding allocations and maitenance expenditure (parm 4.50); and
(o)   Auditors will be retained to prepare audit reports, which would include a
management letter, on the special and project accounts and SOEs operated and
prepared by DUR and MOTC (para 4.48).
6.2    Govenment has agreed to the following Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   recruitment of a ContraCt Management Specialist for DUR (para 4.28);



34
@)   employment of utility contractors for the relocation of public utility services in
the roads to be rehabilitated in Accra and prequalificaion of contractots to bid
for the road rehabilitation works In Accra and SekonditTakoradi (pa 4.34);
and
(c)   payment of initial deposits of US$662,000 equivalen and US$13,000,
respectively Into project accounts opened by DUR and MOTC as
Government's counterpart contribution to the fhancing of the project for
calendar year 1993 (par 4.39).
6.3    Govemment agreed that submission of enviromnental assessment reports and the
adoption of necessary mitigation measures that are satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of disbursement for the rehabilitation of lorry parks and bus teminals and the
consuction of access roads to low income areas (para 5.13).
B.    Rommendat
6.4   Subject to having reached agreement on the above, the Urban Transport Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 55 (US$76.2 million equivalent) to tho Republic of Ghana.



35
Page 1 of 5
REPUBIUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
St_dau of DUR and die Dktdc Rod Unts (DRUS)
DUR and DRUs
1.    Until 1987, responsibility for the maintenance of city roads was left entirely in the
hands of the thea Muicipal/City councils and ihe Ghana Highway Authority. The neglect of
the urban road network during these years due to GHAs preoccupation with the national trunk
road network and the lack of attention from the city councils juslfid the establishment of
DUR. With support from previous Bank projects, namely ADRP, PWP and URBAN U, the
department has been strengthened to focus on the needs of the urban roads sector. While the
Head Office of DUR develops into a policy, advisory, testing and centra support unit, the
District Road Units  e being established in the cities to oversee road maintenance activities in
these cities. The intention Is that once established and sufficiently strenghened under DURs
jurisdiction, the DRUs would be placed under the Municipal Authority's jurisdiction as has
been the case in Accra.
Organizeain and Staffing
2.    The Department of Urban Roads currently employs about 550 oaff members
distrbuted in the four existing metropolitan roads units and the head office located In Accra.
DUR operates under the Ministry of Roads and Highways, alongside the Ghana Highway
Authrt and the Department of Feeder Roads. DUR's basic structre comprises a Head
Office located in Accra, headed by a Director who reports to the Minister for Roads and
Highways. Road units in each of the cities have direct responsibility for road maintenace in
the cities and report to the Director at the head office through the Metropolitan Roads
Engineer of the city.



36                          AAmex 3-1
Page 2 of S
DUR Staff Distiibution
Number
Head
Staff            OffiaO    Acr  Kuasi  Sekondi  Tean  Tamale  Tol
ngnrM                            21     3       2        1      1       -    28
Road Overseem & Foremen          11    58      17       11    12        -    109
Aisns                             -    47      17       17      6       *    87
Laboes                            2    62      98       23    24        -    209
MaChiao Opeaon & Dnive           4    31        8        4      8       -    SS
SuppOt Staff (incing Admi)       5    36        8        8      5       -    62
TOTAL                     43   237    1SO        64    56        -    SSO
3.    DURS organizational structure is shown in attachment 1. 'he structure is in itself
fctional and adequate but has several of the positions either vacant or held in acting
positions. Attachment 2 also shows the proposed organizational structure of the District road
unis.
4.    The Departments total staff strength of 550 is less than the positions assigned. The
orgawiation and management study described in Annex 413 will make reconion on
the optmum size and staffing level of DUR and the DRUs and on the desirable skill mix
required. The table below compares DURs estimated staff requretient with levels currently
available.
EsabUshed
Ciy              Pbsitions    1991 Level   1992 Level
Read Office                     83           37           49
Accra Roads Unit               417          256          234
Kumasi Roads Unit              201          177          148
Sekondi Roads Unit              95           69           64
TemaRoads Unit                  83           74           55
TOTAL            879          613          550



37
37                ~~~~~~~Anntex 3-1
Page 3 of 5
Office Space and Facilides
S.     n recognition of the growing responsibility of the Department, previous Bank
Projects have provided support to strengthen the organization. Development of the workforce
through various training progms ad the improvement of workplace is critical for effcient
perfrmance. Tho proJect will therefore provide additional office space, office equipment and
training for all categories of staff.
6.    The entire head office staff of about 43 professionals and support staff has only 160
sq.m of floor space. ITe Department has Initiated the construction of a new office block to
house head office staff, leaving the present premise for the exclusive use of AMRU. Funds
have been allocated In the project to support the office extension program, including office
equipment and vehicles as follows:



Depatnent of Uan Roads
Roads Unit Ognizaton
101~~~~*
.Tafi Enln IMEgw
Plant   Sto""odao



Department of Urban Roads
Head Office Organization
Re"hrbn rasprtEgieein                               Khwysn
Dire    EngneeingMangemnt                           a AulStio
lODetateons      Fetnce & Adm.
10,~~~                                               |D_ UWAN O                                I     1  I
I~~~~~~~~~~    
ccra|EngeUrban Transport  _Engi  Cotg  o      naond
nd.  . |  -  Road Ststi  Design  Drainate l:lesin !
A_nt~~~ =taa Unit|all
| Enoireritw  |   |costcoAccount
Traffic|                                Surveyi
way~~~~~~~~~~~u



40                               Annex3-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
AearA JAuewo * Afedll Stred P    - Roads Reqsft*g Rehabkaox
ESTIMATED BASE
LENGTH                                      COST JAN. 1993
REF.          NAME             (knm)       DESCRIPIION         ERR%        (S MILLION)
I    Nsawam Road (K.           4.90  Key north/south arterial    27                20.00
N    lrmah Circle to            widened to 2x2 lane
Neoplan Station                 dual carriageway.
J    Newtom Road               4.20  North/south 2 lane        69                   5.28
(Nawam Road to                  arterial.
Achimota Road)
K    Aboseyy-Okal Road          1.85  Northlsouth 3 lane       55                   2.35
(Ring Road West to              arterial. Pavement
Hans  Road)                     strengthening of existing
road. An alternative
proposal on a NEW
alignment will cost
much more.
L    Asafots-Nettey Road        0.89  Two lane east/west road    34                 0.84
(Hansen Road to Pagan           in city center.
Road)
M    Zion Street (Ring Road     1.44  Key east/west arterial to  -                  1.15
West to Asfoatse                west of city center part
Road)                           2 lane and part 4 lane.
N    Ring Road (Obetsebi        5.55  Main easti xest corridor    59               13.69
Lmptey Circle to La             round city center.
Road)                           Strengthening of
existing 2x2 lane road.
Cost esflme does not
imnlude for flyovers at
main inteections.
0    Cantoments Road            1.88  East/west arteria        64                   2.54
(Danqah Cirde to La             linkdng the eastern
Road)                           suburbs.
P    Lokko Road (Sir C.         0.70  Two lane east/west link  27                   0.85
Quist to Cantonments            between Cantonments
Road)                           Roads and Kinbu Road.
Q    La Road (Ring Road to      3.15  Key artedallnking the    5S                   4.19
Casdo l)Dve)                    city center to the east of
the city and Tema.
Base Cost Sub-Total                       50.89
Physical Contingency 10%                   10
TOTAL                          56.96



41
REPUICC OF GHANA
UBAN TRANSPORT PROJUT
Ba4ekt"~ Ailctloens for On Highwj Sedir
Iauit  for Re*  ad Highww
19.93-94
(in mnilons)
2                   1993                1994
Codi      USS       Codi      USS       Coi       USS
Uirban Roand
Urban U                   1,690        3.8   2,S           4.3   2,418         4.4
Aca city                  3,000        6.8    3,000        5.7    3,OOb        5.4
Peiodic   Man             2,200        5.0   2,969         5.6   5,43S         9.8
Kanda HiWbway                10        0.0      365        0.7     490         0.9
Subtoed              AM         MA   La i6  1LM
13,534      30.6   16,193       30.7  14,85O        26.9
36,292       82.1  53,309      101.0  63,932       115.8
TOTAL              56,726      128.3  78,111       147*   90,15       163.3



_ -- U42    MI4ha£ uNISTRY OP PI    AND
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 30X bd
IDA~/ A0.6                                                    CR
r                                            ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. O....
Dear Mr. Preston,
URN  SBASP4J_ PROJEC
;t20, rRirl       TRDANLKitIPORT P0LZCY
Wa have boen working with your staff to prepare an Urban Transport
Projoct for Ghana. To placo this project in theh correct policy context,
and in advance of its preoentation to the 8ard, wy are vriting to inform
the International Development Association (IDA) of the  nlitatives which
have already boen lmpl.emeted to S3prove the mauagemenc and performance
of urban transport tn Ghant and the reforms which will be isplamented duriug
the course of this project.
2.   Rore efficient trasport syseems within the cities and other urban
towns have been vieed a 4:itlcal to the eucceas  of the  tconomic Recovery
Programm  (ERP). which has been impleentc id with the support of the World
B#  and the  nF,.  Curreatly, about one-, aird of the total population live
4>urbau areas with about 202 living ir ;he five  atin cities of Accra,
Kusissi, Sakondi/Takoradi, Tesa and Tssa.e.  The cictes continue co grow
more rapidly than the overall population (the rate of growth of the urban
ares was 3.51 between 1970 and 1984 compared to the overall population
growth of 2.6-3.01). Meanwhile, the number of licenseod vehicles in Ghana
haa Inc:ased, tram 32,000 in 1984, ac the *tart of the EUP r 109,000 in
199t. The inevitable result of these two trcuds La lncreasig traffic
copgse$ton which in Acera IaL already reached serious proportions with
vary obvious economc and social consequeness for all those who live and
work in the city.
3.  The 2iportance of transpOrt to cb  couctry is also reflsected i the
portfolio of projects which have bean supported by IDA. Since 1984, these
l ave included two Transport RhbobiLtation ProJects (TRP-1 and W-Z),
a"d the National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Kaincenanco Proj cc. *In
tha citios, the level of investment has also been important with an acera
District Road Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) nd the Urban IT Project. In
addition, the Priority Works Projoct (PW?) provided finance for tho rehabili-
tation of selected urban infrastructure.
4.  The two urban projects end the PW? provided some finance for the rehabi-
Utatior of urban roats and have provided aseiscance to etregthen the
ijstitutions thtc are reaponsible for tho management of roads and transport
in the cities. 8Swover, none of those projects has directly foc4sosd upon
Che policy and inticutional reforms required to promote lsproved urban
transport. The proposed Urban Transport ProJect will allow the Government
to address thes issues more directly.
5.   In 1991, based on au "ItiaL report by the DepaStmet of Utbn Reads,
the GoVemrment commisionMd consultants to prepare an rbans tansport PoUcy
Action Program. The objectives wvers follvoe
a)   to develop an LlxtitutLoWl frameot for tbe coordInatiou of
urbsa trnsport policy in Ghana;
b)   to develop an urban transport policy which fousoe on key issue
in urban transport; and
c)   to Identify and davelop the pricipal outlines of an urban transport
action program suitable for funding bq muitUetrgal a"n bilatera4
agSeaies.



43
6.  The consultant's report was discussed at a uational seminar organiszed
by the Ministry of Traasport and Comunications (ZOTC) in May 1992, attended
by all public and private sector organisecions involved in urban transport.
ItC L the agreesents reached at that seminar which provided the basis of
this leter.
Institutioas
J.   In Ghana the primary reponsibility for the sotting of urban trnsport
policy in hold by the Ministry of Transport and Commications. however,
the implementation of the policy requires the cooperation of other ministries
including tha Ministry of Local Government, the Minitry of Roads ad Higways.
an  the Ministry of Interior.  Specific agecies responaible for urban
transport activities include the Motropolitu/Nu/ icipal Assemblies, the
Department of Urban Roads (DUi) , tho Motor Traffic Unit CVflU) of the Ministry
of Intorior &Ad the Natioal Road Saftey Comittee which Is responsible
for rosd safety education.
8.   To coordiute the development of urban transport policies and activities,
the Government bas  recently establised the inter-ministerial Urban Transport
Policy Committee chaired by the Mlinister for Transport and Communications.'-
The membership of this committee includes the Minister for Roads and H40*wy;.
the Inspector-General of Police and the Minister for Local Govermsat,
To aage technical issues and lmplsentation, the gSovarment has also
establishad the Urban transport uplemantatiom Committee chaired by the
Chief Director (Planning and Implementation) of the MLnstcry of Transport
and Communications (MOrC).
9.   In addition, an Urban Transport Unit has been established within tho
MOTC Ahich among other tasks will provide a techuical secretariat to support
the work of the Urban Transport Policy Committee. The Director of the
Unit reports dirstcly to the Chief Direccor (Planning and Implementation).
The Unit is currently stafed by two Planning Officers and there are plan
to expad it to a total complement of six, incIduing the Director by January
1, 1997. The Urban Transport Project will provide a full-time consultant
(an Urban Transport Advisor) to support the Director. The advisor will
also provido training for th* Unit's staff in addicion co specialist techical
assistance.
10. The organisation of road maintenance is of great concern to us. I
confirm that the Government will decentralLiz road aintenance activities
in all major cities once the Municipal Assemblies acquire the necessary
technical expertise and experience. This would free the Department of
Urban Roads (DUR) to pursue its substantive responsibilities which include"a
the setting of standards for urban roads; maintenanec planning; development
planning; coordinatLon and review of the annual urban roads budgets of
all districts; major studies; implemencation of development projects; monitortng
of the execution of planned routine and periodic maintenance works by the
Assemblies; overall staff training and institutional strengthening for
road mAintenance units of the Assemblies; and research.
LI. The Department of Urban roads Is responsible for on-the-job training
of professional staff who man Roads Units of the Municipal Assemblies. It
is important that the Department is screngthened institutionally to endure
the success of the urban roads maintenance decentralization program envisaged
under the project. As part of this strengthening, DUR will recruit full-time
consultants including a contract management Specialist, a transport planner
and a municipal engineer.



44
12. The Departmeut will prepare 15 year development plaus to identify:
time frames for establishment of new Roads Unics for the remaining district
assemblies; time schedules for engagement and training of technical staff,
organizational restructuring and staffing needs; office and equipment requirements;
road maintenance, rehabilitation and development plans; cost estimates
and sources of funding to meet the planned expenditure; set up a system
for continuous assessment of the socio-economic impact of the various rebabiliation
and development projects now being pursued.
13. GovernmQnt has made considerable progress in promoting the greater
use of private sector contractors for road maintenance and reducing the
scope of our own force account activities, Currently, nearly all periodic
maintenance is handled by contractors while most routine maintenance is
still undertaken by force account. We will prepare a plan to expand even
further the activities of the private sector maintenance contractors and
anticipate that a proportlon of routine maintenance will be handled by
contract before the end of this Project.
Financing
14.  The funding of urban roads is of critical concern to us.  A summary
of actual expenditure for 1992 and projections for 1993 and 1994 is attached
as an Annex to this letter.
15. With respect to the financing of road maintenance the Government ia
pleased to advise the IDA that it has baen able to fulfill the agreements
made at the time TRP-2 was negotiated. These include commitments that
the Road Fund would be maintained, in real terms and that it would be used
only for payment to either contractors engagsd 1- periodic maintenance
ar to GHA's Maintenance Unit; and to allocate US$36 million and US;38 million
from the Road Fund and capital budgct respectively for the 1991 and L992
period-ic maintenance programs.
16. Notwithstanding the above, we are aware that urban road maintenance
is still underfunded and ws will therefore allocate further funds both
for rehabilitation and for the annual routine and periodic mainteaance.
In addition, there is the urgent need to stabilize the annual maintenance
program by making provision for some minor rehabilitati9n works alongside
the annual routine/periodic maintenance works. We will allocate $7.2 million
equivalent in 1994 and increase this incroemntally to $13.O million equivalent
by 1998 for urban roads maintenance.
17. A recently completed study, Urban road Maintenance Financing Sources
and Mechanisms Study, has suggested that Parking lees, and to a lesser
extent local vehicles licensing tax of the MtrTopolitan/Municipal, Assembliess
have the potential to generate substantial revenues far in excess of the
present collection levels of the Assemblies. The revenue surpluses, once
a mechanism is found to collect the fulL potantils yield, will be used to
maintain infrastructure,



45
Service Provision
18. As you are awara, the Government is anxious to make BreatCr use of
the private sector an a provider of all types of public services. I am
pleased to report that most urban transport services are already provided
by private bus operators. These operations are coordinated by five public
transport unions of which ths strongest is tAe Ghana Private Road Transport
Union. While the role of the unions has in no doubt provided a measure
of cohesion for the transport services, its operating rules do not always
ensure the provision of the best quality services for the public. We will
undertake a study to identify alternative means of organizing transport
and public transport routes to Improve service lovels.
19. Two of the government owned bus companies, City Express Services (CES)
and Omnibus Services Authority (OSA) are also mandated to provide urban
bus services. In practice both have withdrawn from th. market because
of congestion and competition with the private sector. While Government
is no longer directly subsidizing the operations of eithor company, it
has guarantaed loans to enable both companies to take delivery of large
orders of new buses within the last two years. They now face the difficult
task of paying back the loans they have used to finance theas and other
purchases. We view these companies as candidates for future private sector
participation and the Urban Transport Unit will commission a study to identify
the options, before the end of 1994.
20.  The Goverment Is keenly aware of the need to make transport services
more widely available to the poor. In this context, it is particularly
proud of the success of the project componento in the transport rehabilitation
projects which were desipned to promote the use fo non-motorized vehicles.
In the north of the country the increased use of bicycles by women and
the introduction of bicycle trailers and ambulances resulted directly from
the initiatives promoted by these earlier projects. Given this past success,
we view the coumitment to include about 50 kilometers of MUW paths in the
Urban Transport Project s a sound investment in making personalized modes
of transport available to all, including the many who have difficulty affording
public transport fares. The provision of ilproved pedestrian facilities
and the rehabilitation of access roads into selected low income areas in
the cities will also improve transport facilities for the urban poor.
Environment and Safety
21. Government has established a Ministry of Environment which is beginning
to address the environmental problems in our cities. Typically, roads
lack sidewalks and are often paralleled by open drains. With the exception
of Tamle, it is hazardous to use a bicycle or any othet type of non-motorized
vehicles. Furthermore, as traffic congestion becoms more prevalent, the
exhaust fumes are becoming an incre^aingly obvious problem. The government
hUs prepared an environmental, assessment report for each of the road schemes
to be financed under the Project and mitigation measures will be adopted
to address any adverse impacts.



46
22. The safety of the roads it also of very great concern to the Goerument.
The Urban Transport Project will reinforce, through the provisiot of technical
asistance and equtpment, the role of the Wational Road Safety Comittee
(established during TRP-1) and of the agencies concoerud with the promotion
and iaplawntatlon of rod safety measures such as the Vehicles Smidnation
and Licensiug Division (VELD), the Motor Traffic Unit (MTU) of the Ministry
of Interior, the Building and Road Research Institute (UfRI), and the Department
of Urban Roads (DUR).
MIISTE  FR  CE                    .     /E
MR. LEWIS T. PUSTON
MSIDENT 
WORLD BANK
1818 B. STREET, NW
WASHINGTONo DC 20433
U. S. A.
nc.



47                         AMU 34
Page 6 of 6
Funding of Urban Roads
Annual Budgets
(Cedis)
1991 (Actual)      1992 (Actual)      1993 (Planned)    1994 (Planned)
Dev.           559,921,063.25   5,929,026,993.57   7,730,000,000     10,000,000,000
Mtc.         3,890,000,000      5,999,000,000      3,500,000,000     7,000,000,000
kec.           282,707,120.65     161,822,250        441,518,000      5,000,000,000
Source: Depament of Urban Roads



48
Ann 
Page 1 of 7
REPBMUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Acema Road Rehab*ffuion and Thfic Management Inmprovements
Badckround
1.    Accra's 950 km road network, and particularly the 150 km of arterial streets witbin
the Cental Area, is experiencing growing congestion and heavy deterioration. Ihese
problems result In extensive delays in the movement of people and goods, damage to vehicles
and equipment, very high vehicle operating costs, and loss of life due to accidents.
2.    Traffic management improvement studies, which were funded through the Accra
District Rehabilitation Project (CR 1564), were carried out by engineer8n consultants De
Leuw Cather nateational (DLCI) between 1987 and 1990 to identify solutions to these
problems. Initaialy these studies were limited to centra Accra, the area bounded by the Ring
Road and the sea, and an Arteral Street Master Plan was prepared. As the causes of many of
the ptoblems identified in the central area were related to traffic generated from outside this
aeam, the study was subsequently extended to cover the whole of Accra. A framework of
arterial routes, the Framework Arterial Street Plan (FASP), was identified, around which
recommendations for rehabilitation, reconstruction, upgrading and the construction of new
links was made. Detailed design has since been carried out by local and international
consultants, the majority by a joint venture of Mott MacDonalds and Watertech.
3.    Ihe cost of implementing all of these recommendations is around $350 million (Ian
1993 prices), which is well beyond the current level of resources available. Priorities were
therefore established and reconstruction of some of the main links of the FASP, such as
Winneba Road and Achimota Road, have already been completed and others (Liberation
Roadllndependence Avenue and Kanda Highway) are under construction. Relief of
congestion in the central business district (CBD) has been identified as the next highest
priority and this is the objective of the road rehabilitation and traffic management components
of the project. Upgrading of other key links of the FASP, most notably Nsawam, Newtown,
Abossey Okai and the Ring, Roads is also urgently required when funds can be made
available.
Acemr Central BIness District
4.    Traffic surveys pinpointed key road links where traffic speeds have been reduced to
10 kph or less during peak hour because of the combined effect of high volumes of
pedestrian and motor vehicle taic, conlicting left turns, encroaching marketing activities on
walkways that force pedestrians to use the street, and the deteriorated condition of the
roadway. Such travel delays occur on sections of Independence Avenue, Barnes Road,
Ihorpe Road, Kinbu Road, Kojo Thompson Road, and Kwame Nkrmah Avenue, and at
intesections on these roads. Very high traffic volumes and accident rate have been recorded
on Kwame Nrumah Avenue at the main intersections such as those with Kinbu Road and



49                         AM= 41
Page 2 of 7
Brewery Road. The surveys, and accide  data, indicate the need for immediate action at
crtical intersectons. There are 23 sIgnaled interctions In the Central Area, none of which
ha a pedestrian signal phase. Measures to contro and chamelize traffic at critical
Intersecons are urgently required to improve motor vehicle and pedestian safety. Illegal
paidng along major arterial compouds traffic problems; 600 illegally parked cars were
recorded in an inventory made during peak morning and afternoon business hours.
S.    The Arteial Street Master Plan recommends the rehabilitation of key north-south
radial routes; upgrading of three existing radials; the development of more effective east-west
corridors; the inoduction of one-way flow; the addition of two new links; and selective
widening. ITbis project focuses on rehabilitation, development of the east-west corridors, and
creation of the one-way systems. The medium term need for new and upgraded radial routes
is being largely met by widening Liberation Road/Independence Avenue and construction of
the Kanda High Road, both of which are already under way.
6.    The project will increase capacity on the main north-south routes, Kwame Nkrumah
Avenue and Kojo Thompson Road, by rehabilitating the existing pavements and introducing
effective traffic management measures (see below). The secondary radial, Barnes Road, wil
also be rehabilitaed as a two lane road to better accommodate the additional traffic flows that
will be generated by the new Kanda High Road. The east-west cofridors to be upgraded are:
(a)    Casde Road/Adama Road - convert Casde and Adama Roads between
Nkumah Ave. and KojoThompson Road to a one way pair and widen a
farther 0.67km of Castle Road to four lanes, using the existing right-of-way.
(b)   Graphic Road/Liberia Road - construct missing 300m link between Graphic
Road, where it u    away from Brewery Road, and Kwame Nkumah Ave, to
connect with North and South Libia Roads. Remainder of Graphic Road to
be overlayed. Liberia Road to be upgraded to four lanes by using the existig
North and South Liberia Roads as a one-way pair and widening the rema_mng
2km or so, to 28th Febray Road, utilizing the existing road reservation.
(c)    Kinbu Road - upgrade from Kojo Ihompson Road to Sir Charles Quist Street
to four lanes, within the existing road reservation.
(d)   Derby Ave./Selwyn Market St. - rehabilitate existing roads and use as one-
way pair.
7.    Details of the roads including base cost estimates and ERR's are given in
Attachment 1.
Road Dedgn
8.    The designer's flexibility on road alignment has been constrained by Governmene's
decision to minimize pwperty demolition. Fortunately the existing alignments were generally
satifactory and demolition of only one house and parts of two commercial properties is
planned. Pavement design was based on physical measu e  of the strength of the
undedying soil and residual strengths of existig pavement layers through Dynamic Cone
Pe aetromeer (DCPM  measuremen  and tests on materis from trial pits. Traffic loads were



50
Page 3 of 7
calclat.d from detailed traffic volume and composition surveys carried out in 1988, to which
an annual growth rate of 3.5% was applied. In the CBD, due allowance was made for the r
utng effects of the new one-way system.
9.    The road cross-sections adopted are illustrated in Figure 1. In general dual
carriageways have mnning lanes 3.65m wide and single cartiageways have lanes of the same
wWth in each direction. At junctions, lane widfts have been made 3.5m where possible, but
at locations where space is limited, widths down to 3.0m have been specified. Bus-bays, lay-
bys and parking bays have been included at appropriate locations to enable authorized loadig
and unloading of people and goods to be carried out without impeding Wraffic flow. Bus-bay
widths of 3.25m have been specified and adjacent sidewalks have been widened to 3.0m,
where space permits, to accommodate the increased pedestrian activity. Bus shelters have
also been included at some locations.
10. Road drainage has been designed to accommodate runoff from the roads and to
discharge to existing storm water drains. The consultants responsible for the road design also
prepared a storm drainage master plan for the whole of Accra and provision has been made in
the road designs to accommodate the future construction of this system eg. by constuctng
culverts under the rads. All road-side drainage will be covered.
11.   A proliferation of services exists under the project roads. Where locations are known
these have been shown on drawings which will be included in the contract. However, in
many insaces exact locations are unknown. Diversions will be kept to a mimum in order
to reduce costs. During constuction the supervising consultant will liaise very closely with
the Public Utility Authorities in order coordinate the diversions required and to minimize
damage and disruption of the services.
12.   In selecting a pavement design method the consultants produced a catalogue of
pavement structues based on design standards for heavily trafficked roads in Britai
(ransport and Road Research Laboratory Report Road Note 29) and lightly trafficked roads
in the tropics (TRL Road Note 31). These standards were considered to be the most
relevant following a review of different intemational standards. The pavement catalogue
relates pavement layer thicknesses to four categories of cumulative traffic (eqaent standard
axles) and four ranges of subgrade strength (CBR). Overlays are considered in siuations
where no base deformation has occurred. In these cases existing Stmctural Numbers are
calculated from DCP data on layer thicknesses and the residual strength of the pavement
derived. The thickness of overlay required to meet the cumulative traffic loading is then
calculated. Overlays have been adopted wherever possible to reduce costs and to minimize
disruption during constrction.
13. Construction materials for totally reconstructed roads shall comprise gravel, crushed
stone and asphaltic concrete. On roads where an overlay to the existing pavement will
suffice, bitumen-bound stone and asphaltic concrete will be used. Asphaltic concrete has been
selected as the base course and wearing course material becase of its strength, durability and
relatively low maintenance requirement. All necessary materis are readily available: there
are several suitable gravel pits close to Accra, quarries for cruished stone are located witin
40km, and bitmen for the asphalt will be imported.



51                         Anng 4-l
Page 4 of 7
14.   Careful scheduling to minimize traffic disruption during construction will be essential
because the road works in the project cover virtually the whole of central Accra, and work is
expected to continue on another two major arterial routes during the construction period.
Account bas been taken of the need for diversions in the designs and obligations placed on the
contractors in the contract documents. In some cases work will have to be undertaken outside
normal business hours.
Traffic Management hmprovements
15.   All of the above road components will have complementary traffic management
improvement measures md an additional 17 separate intersections will also be improved. The
main improvement feature will be the introduction of one-way traffic flow on the two main
north-south aiterials in the CBD - Kwame Nkrumah Ave. and Kojo Thompson Road.
Complementary east-west one-way systems will also be established on Castle Road and
Adama Road, North and South Liberia Roads, and Derby Ave. and Selwyn Market St. The
main advantages that will derive from this are: improved traffic flow; reduced traffic conflicts
particularly from lef turning traffic; and reduced waiting times at junctions through
synchronized traffic signalling. There are also some disadvantages: travel distances will
increase by forcing movements around blocks; and there will an initial period of confusion
before drivers become familiar with the system. However, it is considered that the
advantages outweigh the disadvantages and that this is the only solution to effectively increase
traffic capacity without widespread building demolition to create more road space.
16.   Traffic flows have been derived from detailed surveys carried out by DLCI in
1987/88 with a growth factor of 3.5% per annum applied. This growth rate is directly related
to the projected economic growth of Accra over the design period. It will, however, be
ifluenced by changes in traffic distribution that will arise from the current construction
program, the way in which drivers react to the new system in selecting routes through and
around it, the effect of possible improvements in the telephone system and public transport
whhin the project design life, and future economic growth. Spot counts taken in 1992
indicate that actual peak hour traffic growth has been higher than this, possibly as high as
10% per annum. Ultimately traffic growth will be restrained by the system capacity. The
measures being proposed seek to make the most efficient use of the road space available;
beyond that, capacity can only be increased by creating more road space.
17. The traffic signalling system for the main junctions in the CBD has been designed by
modelling it as a single network using the TRANSYT9 software package. Saturation flows
and link capacity limits have been taken as 80% of UK flows based on observations made in
Accra. These lower limits arise from lower vehicle reliability and poorer driver discipline.
The model enables linked signal timings to be optimized and the performance charactersics
of individual junctions to be identified in the context of the whole network. An initial signal
timing plan has been prepared for the anticipated opening of the system and provision has
been made for fine-tuning after drivers have had a chance to become accustomed to it.
18.   The signalling equipment, which will be considerably more complex than that
currently used in Ghana, will be capable of handling:
(a)    8 signal phases;



52 
Page 5 of 7
(b)    demad dependat pbas, including thos for pedestrian ad bicycle
crs_g;
(c)    v lo byde and sto  tmes    it tme of day and day of week; and
(d)   linkags with adjacent sigalUs to better coordinat tffic flows.
19.   In developing the specifications and contract documents for the sipal equipment the
consultts will take due acut of the need for the system and hs component to be operated
and serviced locally.



53                         AM  41
Page 6 of 7
guro 1:- Road CrU3 _Mons
Class 1: Trunk G             Expr     y Roads (Not Used)
Cbss 2: Prlmary ArtWral Roads
Central
Footway         Carrageway         Reserve           Cariageway            Bus Bay   Footway
2.0 min        7.30 or 10.50*      2.5 min          7.30 or 10.50*           3.25      3.0   f
'2 x 3.65m wide lanes or 3 x 3.50m wide lanes.
Class 3: Secondary Arterial Roads
Footwy             Carriageway*"                 Lay-by*         Footway
12.0min       3.65 to 5.0      3.65 to 5.0        2.Smin          2.0m
*If bus-bay is provided, minimum width is 3.00m.
**Widfs shown for 2-lane road. Mnimum width for 4-lane road is 14.60m.
Class 4: District Roads
Clss S: Local Roads
Paved                            Verge or Footway
Footway         Cariageway         as required
1.5                               1.5
min      6.10 to  7.30*           min
With to suit ex3sig space, subject to 6.lOin minimum.



54                         An&eM 4-1
Atachment 1
Page 7 of 7
Read  to be Rehd itated in Acer.
ESTIMATED
BASE COST JAN.
LENGTH                                    1993
REF.              NAME                 (km)          DESCRIPnON             ($ MLLION)
A      Kwame Nkrumah Ave./KoJo           7.24  Key north/south arterial             8.02
Ihlbpsol Road (Nkrumah                  developed as a one way
Circle to High St.)                     system.
B      Caste Road/Adama Road             1.07  Key east/west arteial                2.00
(Museum Circle to Kwame                 widened to dual
Nkumah Ave.)                             arriageway for 0.47km.
c      Liberia Road (including           2.38  Development by                       4.27
Nort & South Liberia                    widening of a 4 lane key
Roads) and Graphic Road                 east/west arterial.
Extension (28th February
Road to Graphic Road)
D      Graphic Road (Ring Road to        2.10  Linls with C to form                 3.98
Graphic Road Extension)                 eastlwest arterial.
Pavement overlay and
improved drainage.
E      Kinbu Road (Sir. C. Quist to      2.00  East/west arterial                   3.79
Kwame Nkwmah Ave.)                      widened to 4 lanes.
F     Selwyn Market St. (Hansen          0.80  Two lane eastwest                    0.83
Road to Nkrumah Ave.)                   arterW  in city ceter.
G      Derby Ave. (Hansen St. to         0.60  Two lane easttwest                   0.63
Zongo Lane)                             arterial in city cenW
linked with F to provide
one way system.
H      Barnes Road (Castle Road to       1.88  Two lane north/south                 1.80
28th Febmary Road)                      artiaW.
TOTAL                 25.32



55                         Anntex 42
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Sekondi/Takoradi - Road Rebilaio
lBackground
1.    SelkoadirTakradi has a network of around 195km of roads, of which 140km are
paved. Overall, Sekondi/Takoradi does not experience the congestion levels that occur in
Accra However, serious traffic flow problems do occur on the roads around the Takoradi
Central Market, which is located inside a large roundabout in the central business district
(CBD).
2.    Studies were carried out in 1989 by the same consultans (De Leuw Cather
ntnational - DLCI) who carried out the Accra Traffic Improvement Studies. These studies,
which focused on S8km of roads identified as the most import liks in the network, found
the following problems:
(a)   95% of the roads were either in poor (38%) or fair (S %) condition an most
drains were in poor structural condition and choked with refuse and silt;
sb) few sidewalks exist, forcing pedestians to walk in roadways;
(c)   traffic management is poor with few traffic lits functioning and inadequate
road signs; and
(d)   unorized on-street parking is a serious impediment to traffic flows.
3.    Ihe studies recommended a five year improvement program incorporatng: an
intgrated package of road rhabilitation; upgraded juncto; introduction of one way flow in
the CBDD; improved taffic sinling; upgraded provisions for pedestrians; consolidation of
tansport teminals; a motorist and pedestrian education program; and enforcement of traffic
legislation. Detaied designs and tender douments for the physical component of *t
program were prepared in 1992/93 by consuldtg enginees, Comptan, under the Uban 11
Project (CR 2157-OH). The estimaed cost of the whole program at Jamary 1993 pries is
around $70 million. Rehabilitation of 10.5km of the highest priority roads (see Attac   I
for details), reated jcion upgradings, traffic mag   improvements and the
rehabilitation of three transport terminals, will be carried out in this project The software
components wil be addressed by the Urban Transport Unit of the MOTC.
Road Rehabitation
4.    Detailed taffic surveys, which included origi and desinon analyses, carried out by
DLCI in 1989 and since updated by Comptran, found high traffic flows on the following
roads: Mrkket Circle, John Sarbah, Libeation, Axim, Cape Coast, Obeneba Mesak and
Sekondi. Al of these except for Sekomni Road, which is the main arteral route lining



56                         Annex 42
Page 2 of 4
Sekondi and Takoradi, are within the CBD. Because of the built-up nature of the CBD the
scope for changing the vertical and horizontal alignment, and even the width, of roads is
limited. The same stadards for lane widths and road cross-sections adopted for Accra (see
Annex 4-1) have been used for SekondirTakoradi.
S.    Pavement designs have been based on information recorded in a pavement condition
survey, field sampling and testing of pavement layer materials, records of dynamic cone
penetrometer (dcp) tests and design directives Issued by the Ministry of Roads and Highways
relating to the reconstruction/rehabilitation of roads. The latter call for the use of an asphaltic
concrete wearing course in conjunction with a crushed rock road-base on highly trafficked
roads, because of their high strength and low maintenance characteristics. The designers
adopted a slightly revised version of the pavement catalogue developed for the Accra roads by
Mott MacDonalds. Tbis takes account of criteria used in the Kenya Road Design Manual,
which in Comptran's view, more closely reflects conditions in Ghana. The basic difference
occurs at low traffic levels, where the Kenyan designs call for lower pavement thicknmesses.
The differences on heavily trafficked roads, such as those being rehabilitated in
SekondilTakoradl,are small,and are considered by the Bank's engineers to be acceptable.
6.    The pavement catalogue relates pavement layer thicknesses to three categories of
cumulative trafflc (equivalent standard axles) and three ranges of subgrade strength (CBR).
Overlays are considered in situations where no base deformation has occurred. In these cases
existing Stucu  Numbers are calculated from DCP data on layer thicknesses and the
residual strength of the pavement derived. The thickness of overlay required to meet the
cumulative traffic loading is then calculated. Overlays have been adopted wherever possible
to reduce costs and to minimize disruption during constuction.
7.    Traffic loadings were based on traffic counts and composition surveys and take
account of the percentage of conmnercial traffic (3.5% in the CBD), the percentage of traffic
using the design lane, and equivalent axle load factors. Ghana Highway Authority's
equivalent axle load actors, which take account of survey work carried out in Accra during
1991, were adopted. Traffic was found to have grown at 7% per annum between 1989 and
1992. A growth factor of 5% has been adopted for the first ten years of the design life,
dropping to 4% and 3% for the following two five year periods.
8.    Drains have been sized to cope with runoffs calculated from the Rational Formula,
using intensity-duration-frequency data recorded in Sekondilfal60radi. Designs have taken
account of the need for drains on rehabilitated roads to discharge to existing channels and
outfalls. All drains in the CBD have been covered, with provision made at frequent intervals
for lifting the covers to facilitate desilting and maintenanc,e.
9.    Sidewalks have been provided alongside the rehabilitated roads, wherever space
permits, and provision has been made for controlled cross-walks in areas where pedestrian
movements are high. Bus-bays and lay-bys have also been incorporated in the road designs to
minimize or eliminate the delays caused by stopping vehicles.



Annex 42
Page 3 of 4
Tc M                  mproVement
10.   The traffic problems l athe CD aise primrily out of the trffic, both vehicle and
pedestia  genratd by the narket New market have been developed on the periphery of
town in an effort to both meet demand for retail space and to reduce taffic congesdon.
However, those iaves have oly been partially successfl, as people are reluctant to
cg their tadidonal business and shopping habits. It will therfre be necessary to address
the problemn throu a combinaion of physical traffic mangement measures, public
educaton campaigns and better adherence to traffic legislation.
11.   The physical traic managenmpve           will comprise:
(a)   provision of a one-way system to act as an outer cordon around the Market
Circle using the following roads: Kitson Ave, Mampong, Collins Ave and
Ahat Road;
(b)   signalization of some major intersections; and
(c)    modifications of intersection designs.
12.  ITe one-way system wiI help to minimize the use of the Market Circle by extraneous
taffic, thereb  educing the level of congestion in the circle. It will also reduce traffic flow
confi  and provide scope for traffic signal sychna .Traffic flow on all major roads
leading iltO the Market Circle wDI be manained as two-way and paring restr.ions will be
efoced. On-eet parkig will however be pemitted on the oneway stree where it is less
iky to Iwpede traffic flow.
13.   Signals have already been istalled at four of the five key CID Juctions
rmmended by DLCI. These are:
(a)    Liberation RoadlOheneba Mensah Road;
(b)   Kitson Ave/John Sarbah Road;
(c)   John Sarbah Road/Collins Ave; and
(d)    Liberation RoadlKumasi Road.
14.   Only the jucton of Aim and John Sarbah Roads remains to be signalized. The
capaciy of these Juno  was checked, using TEAPAC/SIGNAL software agaist projected
raffic flows, tking due account of the Impact of the onwa sysm  In most cases
addonal tung lanes wI be added and more sophiscated signalling equipent adopted.



58                      AM= 
Atachment I
Page 4 of 4
Edtmated Base Cost
January 1993
Name                 Desciption             Lngh (km)    Width           ($millon)
John Sarbah Road  Major north/soudi arterial.            1.15   2W7.3                    1.72
Pavment overlay and Improved
drainae.
Liberation Road    Major eastlwest aterial. Pial         0.44   2W7.3                    2.62
recoucdon and improved                  1.30    1W8.0
drainae.
Axim Road        Major east/west arterial.               2.02   2W7.3                    0.77
IWroved dmainage and partal
reconstruction.
Cape Coast Road   Major north/south arterial:                                            3.35
- Pavement overlay               1.13   2W7.3
- Partia reconstuction           0.70
- Pavement overlay               0.40
Oheneba Mensah   Mnor north/south arterial.              0.69    1W7.3                   0.75
Partial reconsuction and
improved draig.
Market Circle    Major atea  around the                  0.59    lW8.0                   0.66
Takoradi market. Pavemen
overlay ad improved drag.
Sekondi Road     Major north/south arterial linking      2.01    1W7.3                   2.60
Takoradi township to Sekondi.
Partial reconstruction.
TOTAL                     10.43                           12.47



59                         &M 43
Page l of 3
REPBC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSORT PROJKT
Ate  IusVrovaat So Low-Iu  m    Arm
1.    Studies caried out in 1992 to examie the in*sucture needs of seventeen low
income coummuities in Accra found that seconday roads are virully nonextnt or in a
poor state in nearly all the areas. Many sections of the communities cannot be reached easily
by vebicles, leading to higher commutiag and transporion cost for the ura poor living in
these areas. Whee roads exist, years of neglect coupled with socia undiscipline in the ue of
roadside drains for solid waste disposa has compounded the problem
2.    Low fmily incomes, hnemploymen, high popuation density and ovowding are
some of the main soclocmic problems asociated with thee are. Some roads in 7 of
the 17 areas studied bave been selected for imprvement on the basi of their rdadvely low
aerage family inomes and the much poorer condition of the roads and drains in the area.
Tabb 1: Low-Income Areas Seleded for A nmprove
Area             Road length (kim)   Estimated cost (sm)
Teshie Old Town                        2.8                   0.84
Chorkor                                2.1                   0.63
Russia                                 6.0                   1.80
Sukura                                 2.0                   0.60
Sabon Zongo                            3.2                   0.96
Old Nungua                             4.2                   1.26
Abeka                                  2.4                   0.7?2
Other roads                            2.3                   0.69
TOTAL                          25.0                   7.5
3.    These areas lack all the major basic aies for driage, tsp  a  and
son. A summary of the soco-economic ch       Istis of all 17 ar  studied, ad the
condition of the road and draiae network is given in the folowing tables. For a more
detaied descon of these areas tefece is made to the feasibility report prepared in June
1992 by BIDEX CONSULT for the Technical services centr of the Miistry of Worb and
Houig under the Accra Residetal and Maret Upgrading Study.



60                             AMax 43
Page 2 of 3
Table 2: Soclo-cwmlc Indicators for Ma4Or low-lncome Areas In Am
Average Income                    Averqge Fmily
of lead of    Average FamlUy        Food
Unempyloymlent    HoJuselioli       loccaue         lbq> iulaure
Am                Rte (%)         (O    ea)            /    )
Abda *                          13.6           290,425           61,420           37,955
Abose Okai                       8.5           249,250           43,934           37,913
NOW Town                        10.7           306,974          110,312           38,419
Bubuasbi.                       12.9           323,272           69,250           45,388
Chorkor *                       10.0           363,000           43,318           33,86S
Dakudman                        12.0           291,250           42,043           42,865
Jamnstown                        9.5           323,975           40,028           34,078
Kotabobi                         5.3           394,000           61,693           35,385
Kpebe                            8.0           220,658           71,214           36,285
Matahcko                        11.7           270.816           78,843           42,500
New Fadbam                      13.0           330.395           8S,166           50,166
Nungua Old Town                  4.2           334,715           47,943           41,139
RuFssa*                          9.4           241,250           57,150           42,400
Sukura *                        11.2           218,175           36,635           37,140
Sabon Zongo *                    8.2           437,526           81,666           40,131
To"e Old Town *                 12.6           263,807           36,480           30,818
Wesd )amobi                      3.7           360,950           79,305           45,138
S Sected fwr Acs Imvemt
Soure: DIDEX Uan Uprading Stidy, Ju1992



61                            An 4
Page 3 of 3
Table 3: Roads and Drinage Conditons In Study Areas (Secondary/Interal Roads)
Total Length     God         Fair         Bad         Dfcativo
AM              (mets)          (%)         (%)          (x)        Dns (m)
Abea a                   22,240          30          40           30          18,000
Abos Okai                 8,0S0          30          30           40          16,100
New Town                  8,510          40          2S           35          IS,000
Bubuashi                 18,860          30          40           30         32,M00
Chodwr *                  9,860          10          2S           65          1,200
Daetuman                 23,380          20          30           S0         2C,6O0
Jamstown                  8,040          80           17           3          14,600
Kotobabi                  5,720          30          30           40          11,440
Kpeho                     5,740          50          30           20          11,480
Mathdeko                 18,090          20          S0           30         22,600
New Fadama                4,420          10          20           70          8,840
Nungua Old Towa *         9,S80          10          30           60          17,600
Rnsi *                    5,410           0          10           90          10,820
Suka *                    9,050           0           S           95          18,100
Saboa Zo7*                6,290          10          30           60          12,580
Teshio Old Town0          5,310          10          20           70          8,600
West Mamobi               4,110          10          20           70          8,220
TOTAL            172,720                                             254,280
*Seled for Acsa Improvemet
Source: BIDEX U*man Upgrading Study, June 1992



62
REPUBUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJCT
Jundaes to be lproev  (a Atm
Name of         i
1.    Salem Road/Labadi Road
2.    Canoment RoadALokko Road
3.    Wlnneba Road/Ni Tieko Din Street
4.    Outer Ring Road/Wineba Road
S.    Mants Boi Stretil fAryese Steet
6.    Outer Ring Road/Oblogo Road
7.    VebdIe Pedestria Traffic Management Teddo
8.    Ring RoadLabadi Road
9.    Outering RoadlKwashieman StHigh Sre
10.    Abela JunczionlNsawam Road
11.    Abeka Road Eteion/Motorway II
12.    Gug=beg Avene/Aku Omeiru Street
13.    Switcbback RoadnJwahafral Nehru Road
14.    Newtown Road/Nsawam Road
15.    Paaof Road/Nsawam Road
16.   COoonmeut Road/North Labone Aveu
17.    Made DadaaAdi Road (west)
18.    Awudume Roundabout



63
REPUBLIC OF GIANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
T enauls Proposedfor RuhabW*adoa
Estimated .3ase Cost
Name                         Daily Turnover              January 1993
(Cmilion         S'ooo
ACCRA
1. Odawana Truck Station (A)                                              172             374
2. Kaneshie Market Complex                               3,700            257              558
3. 37 Mditary Hospital                                   1,089            269              585
4. Neoplan                                               1,806            294              638
5. CMB                                                   1,931             95             207
6. Kaneshiefrakoradi                                      260              37               80
7. Agbobloshie Market                                    2,120            279             606
8. Tudu                                                  1,320            125             272
9. 'BIow Up                                               967              60              130
10.Arena                                                 1,065             92             200
Sub-Total                                                         1,680           3,650
KUMASI
1. Kejetia & other  minals to be ldentfied                                               1470
SKONDI
1. Old Axim Station                                                        51              110
2. Takoradi Central Station                                               266              580
(New Axim)
3. Sekondi Station                                                         74
TEiMA
1.Tema Main                                              4,684             60              130
2. Mankoadze                                             1,331             96
TAMALE
To be identified
TOTAL



64
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Plot NAM Paths
1.    Virtually no provision is made in Accra, or any other city in the south of Ghana, for
the users of non-motorized vehicles, maWy bicycles and handcarts. Despite this omission,
handcarts are widely used, especially in the market areas, and studies have revealed ihat cycle
use has grown In recent years. Cycling is aready widespread In the north of the country,
but much less common in the south. In the past, bicycles were more widely used in Accra,
but usage declined with the rising affluence of the 1960s and early 1970s. In recent years the
decline in real incomes has renewed demand among low and middle income groups, but the
congested urban roads, which have no special provisions for cyclists, have become too
dangerous for their safe use. Cycles are readily available from well stocked shops in all
cities. ITe main cycle distributors import about 110,000 bicycles annually to Ghana and
around 10,000 per year have been sold in Accra in recent years. A study to assess the
transport and mobility needs of the urban poor carried out in 1992 revealed that 62% of
households in low-income areas In Accra own at least one bicycle, but their use is mainly
restricted to local roads, where motor traffic is light. The suppressed demand for greater
bicycle use was recognized in early 1992 by the Goverment, which committed itself to the
principle of balanced development of different transport modes and the rational allocation of
road space. Provision is now being made for bicycles in all urban road designs, wherever
space pemits.
Pilot Network
2.    In support of this policy the proposed project includes thz nnstruction of a pilot
network of around 50km of cycle paths connecting low and middle-income residential areas to
commercial and business districts. Cycle lanesltracks have also been incorporated as part of
the road rehabilitation designs for Accra, either within the road reservation or parallel to the
route, as space permits. In the proximity of markets the tracks/lanes will be wide enough to
accommodate the manually pushed trolleys, which are widely used to transport goods and it is
intended to provide additional routes linking lorry parks with nearby markets.
3.    It is hoped that these pilot paths will form the initia phase of an integrated bike pati
network for the whole of Accra and donor assistance will be sought to produce a master plan
for the development of a comprehensive network for the whole city.
Dedgns
4.    Detailed designs and bills of quantities have already been prepared. A range of
designs have been adopted to suit individual situations at particular locations so as to balance
the needs of bicycle users with others in the community. For example it is not proposed to



65            44
Page 2 of 2
Incorporate cycle lanes in, or alongside, the city center roads, which have high traic and
pedestrian volumes. Ined, cycle lanes are being proposed in service roads running parailel
to the main thoroughfares. On less-busy roads, away from the center of town, cycle lanes
have been incorporgated on existing hard shoulders. In other cases, where adequate space is
available within existing road reservations, totally segregated cycle paths have been provided.
5.    Safety has been one of the main design criteria with particular attention paid to
detailed layouts at junctions. In some instances routes have been aligned alongside railway
lines and streams. Wherever possible routes have been selected to avoid busy junctions,
particularly roundabouts. Where junctions have to be negotiated standard crossing details
have been adopted so that users and motorists will become familiar with them. NMV paths
have been aligned at right angles to all road crossings In order to maximize itevisibility
between users and motorists. Signal controlled pedestian and NMV CrOSsings wil be
provided at junctions with high volumes and at two locations on the dual carriageway Ring
Road where traffic speeds are relatively high. Traffic calming measures, which prevent
through traffic, have been proposed for the service roads in which lanes will be incorporated
in the city center. Bollards will also be provided wherever NMV paths intrsect roads to
prevent motor vehicles using them. A major road safety campaign, the main emphasis of
which will be on pedestrians and cyclists, has been included in the proposed project. This
would involve a public enlightenment campaign using the mass media to educate both cyclist
and users on the need for mutual awareness and respect.
6.    The designers were also charged with minimizing costs. The alig_nent of NMV
paths follows existing corridors and avoids land acquisition and demolition. At obstacles,
such as overbrldges and rivers, width standards have been reduced with adequate provision
made for advance warning, rather than providing expensive exclusive facilities for NMV
users. The e        average cost per km is US$55,000 (January 1993 prices).
7.    The designs adopted are based on European and American standards modified to suit
the existng stndards of the Ohanaan Ministry of Roads and Highways. Path widths vary
from 3.6m for two-way traffic, where high volumes are anticipated, to 1.8m for one-way
operation. On some lengths cycle lanes have been included alongside footpaths and
segregated by a white line. The maximum gradient adopted for strait lengths is 7%
reducing to 5% at junctions. Paths will be surface dressed and slurry sealed to a similar, or
better standard than adjacent roads. It is intended that construction will be carried out by
relatively small local contcors using labor intensive techniques. Bicycle parking will be
provided at key trasport terminals to encourage htrmodal tranoion and also at major
workplaces.



66
Page l of 2
RIPUBLIUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSORT PROJECT
E    Ment to be S dr to VELD, DRM, NRSC nd MTV
Cost
L Vilde Ezanlnaon and jLmunsgeariesnt
Tamale
O) 2 roller break tester (1 heavy & I light)               30.0
(U) I pickup double cabin                                  15.0
(li) 2 inspection pit jacks, 1 headlight teste and 1 wheel
alignment device
Sob-Totals 
Acera
O, 1 light roller break tester & sundry equient            15.0
(h) Computer network
Sub-Total
Koforldua
(I) 2 roller break tester ( heavy & 1 ligbht)              30.0
(ii) 2 inspection pit jacks, 1 headlight tester and 1 wheel
alignment device
Sub-Total
VED Sub-Total
IL Building Road Rsareh lstib
(i) 2 PCs                                                  10.0
(Ui) Photocopier, typewriler & sundy equipment             2S.0
(ii) Opeating expes
Sub-Total
lL N ial Road Matft Cgmil
Oi  One 4WD vehicle with public address system             25.0
(i) Photocopier - heavy duty                               18.0
(Hi) Publicity material (1 video camera, 2 still camras,
slides, video cassettes, etc.)                            .ll.Q
Sub-Total fW



67                         Annex 47
Page 2 of 2
Cost
IV. Mtr -  -.   g    Unit
Aom&
(i) One 4WD vehicle                                        22.0
(iH) 2 motorcycles                                         12.0
(dii) I towing vehicle                                     30.0
(iv) Miscellaneous equipment (1 photocopier, 2 radar
guns, 2 breath analyzers, 4 walkie talkies, I typewriter,
tre gauges)                                                2Q
Sub-Total
Kmasi
(i) One 4WD vehicle                                        22.0
(Ci) 1 motorcycle                                           6.0
(iii) 1 towing vehicle                                     30.0
(iv) Miscellaneous equipment (1 photocopier, 2 radar
guns, 2 breath analyzers, 2 walkie talkies, 1 typewriter,
tyre gauges)                                               18.0
Sub-Total                       ,Q
Takoradi
(I) One 4WD vehicle                                        22.0
Cii) 1 motorcycle                                           6.0
(iii) 1 towing vehicle                                     30.0
(iv) Miscellaneous equipment (1 photocopier, 2 radar
guns, 2 breath analyzers, 2 walkie talkies, 1 typiter,
tyre gauges) 
Sub-Total                        X
TUmale
() One 4WD vehicle                                         22.0
(ii) 1 motorcycle                                           6.0
(iii) Miscellaneous equipment (2 radar guns, 2 breath
analyzers, 2 walkie talkies, 1 typewriter, tyre gauges)   iQ
Sub-Total                       A0
MTU Sub-Total 



68                         Anx 4-8
Page l of 4
REPWBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Road Maenane and Instwuond Suport Equlpment for DUR
Badkgoumd
1.    Responsibility for road construction and maintenance in Ghana is shared between the
three agencies under the Mistry of Roads and Highways. GHA is responsible for trunk
roads, DFR for feeder roads and DUR for City roads in Accra, Sekondi-Takoradi, Kumasi
Tamale and Tema.
2.    While GHA is relatively well established and has maintenance units in 32 designated
road areas, DUR is relatively younger and is still in the process of building up capacity fr
carrying out their mainteace funetions. Ihe creation of DUR in 1988 was to drtaw atention
to the peculiar needs of roads in the urban centers, which up to then were manageci, together
with truk oads, by GHA.
3.    The promulgation of the Local Government Law, PNDC law 207, in 1988 has
increased the Importance of working towards strengtening all 22 decetized agencies to
cary out their statutory roles. The road units of the Department of Urban Roads are an
Important part of the deentralization drive. Government's policy is that the bulk of
maintenance works (80% of periodic mantenan) should be carried out by the private sector.
Routine m    ce acvities such as pot-hole pathing and drain cleaning which are less
amenable to execution by conct are carried out by the direct labor forces of the
Metropolitan and District Roads Units. The Department's road units in Accra, Kumasi,
Takoradi and Tema need additional equipment to improve their effectiveness. A fift unit is
planned for Tamale as soon as logistic support permits.
4.    Under the Accra District Rehabilitation and the Priority Works Projects, the roads
unit in Accra was strengthened. Further strengthening of the Accra Metropolitan Roads unit
is expected under the on-going Urban 1 Project. The other four cities have had much less
support from previous projects. However, as shown in table 1, Kumasi in pardcular, with
126 km of asphalt surfce roads, needs significant support to keep these newly constructed
roads well maintained.
Equipmet Required
S.    With the intensification of reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads in al cities it is
esential that the substantial gap now existing between the level of mntenance opeation see
in the field, and actual    m needs, is bridged. An important requirement is adequate
and appropriate equpmeDL Equipment to be provided under the project has been
recommended bearing in mind existing facilities and need to limit direct labor works to
routine mainenance activities.



69                         Annex A&
Page 2 of 4
Table 1: Urban Road Length In Various Cities
Existing Road Lenogth (km)
Road Surface Type      ACCRA    KUMASI   SEKONDI    TEMA             TAMALE
Pordand Concrete
Asphalt Concrete                  60         126         14       -           -
Surface Dressed                  582        234         127         128          60
Subtotal (paved)                 642        360         141         128          60
Unpaved                          385         S0          74          70           2
TOTAL                    1027         410         192         198         62
6.    The District/Metropolitan Road Units which have responsibility for carrying out
maintenance either directly or by contract, are equipped to varying degrees. Attachment 1
shows the equipment holding of each unit Ihe distution of equipment to be supplied
under the project is shown in Table 2 with totals and costs shown in Table 3. Ihe equipmt
has been chosen for its suitability for rouine mantennce operations carried out by smal
mobile work units. It will also enable hot-mix material to be used on most repairs which is
much more durable than the cold mix material currently used.
Table 2: Road Maintenance Equipent Allocation by City
Quantity to be suplied
Equipment         ACCRA    KUMASI   SEKONDI   TEMA    TAMALE
Mmi Hot Mix Plant                 2           1            -        -            -
Light Duty Vehicle                5          4             3        2            2
Bitumen Heater with Sprayer       6          5             3        3            2
Walk Behind RoUer                 6          5             3        3            2
Pick-Up - Double Cabin            3           2            2        2            2
BiUfen Storg Tank                 3           3            2        2            2
Industri Traor                    -           -            -        -            2
Tipping Trailer                               -            -        -            2



70                        Anmex 4
Page 3 of 4
Table 3: Cost of Road Maintenance Equipment
Unit cost
Item           Description         Capacity    (US$)    Quantity    Amount
I      Min Hot Mix Plant           4-5 tons    100,000         3     300,000
2      Light Duty Vehicle          4000 kg      20,000        16     320,000
3      Bitumen Heater with Sprayer    400 htr   15,000        19     285,000
4      Walk Behind Roller           600 kg      15,000        19     285,000
5      Pick-u - Double Cabin       2700 kg      16,000        11      176,000
6      Bitumen Storage Tank        20000 Itr    10,000        12      120,000
7      Industa Tractor                -         25,000         2      SO,OO0
8      T-ipping Trailer                          5,000         2       10,000
Sub-Total                                1,546,000
Add 10% Spares                             154,600
9      Spares for Existing Accra Equipment                           300,000
Total (Equlipent and Spars)       2,000,600
7.    DUR also needs: vehiles for the technical assistance specialists and staff involved in
the project funded works; computer equipment to enable implementation of the mainnnce
management system; a photocopier; and a storage system for drawings and documents.
Details of this equipment are given below in Table 4.
Table 4: VehIles and Equipment for DUR
Uni Cost
Item                        ()       Quantity    Amount
1. Saloon cars for technical assistce
specilists and sendor staff assigned to the  20,000    5          100,000
projCL
2. Pesonal computes and printers in HQ and     10,000     6           60,000
each of 5 project cities.
15,000     2           30,000
3. Photoopier for HQ and AMRU.
10,000
4. Drawing srage chests, fiing cabinets, etc.
TOTAL                         200,000



Attacccat I
noaiwut or IN"  sons
IPIPNIUT IUV3VTCS
Du? cm                      OGAMt   CO_atn. AVAZIASU             @o. to00    AM tt
vm                    mthDB oo                 CAPCl"T          * ws       ACc       tm       KUSA      Su-r        tOUL       cstrrZ   (tOSEDi    UV 2WOS D
1.  -"nupeTrack                          6.0 e  a         40,000.0          9         1         1         -        11             4           10
1.   cargo ft        Witbllydr. a"       -                                  1         -         -         -        I
2.   Pick-IV, *1 0 camei                 4,kg             12,500.00   18              -                   -        10  8
4.     ep, doublecabis                   4OgW am          -        8                  -         -         -         0             4
t. Pic"         160amln                  2,550kg          -                 I                   2         a 1                     4           -          t
. pi'        , dobe cb                   p,700,kg         a,0.00            I         a         I         1i                      - 4                    -
7.   21-Seate  "a                        21-Seater       1a048G.oo          I         -         -         -         I             I
*.   sale" car                           lSooc.           12,00.50          4         -         -         -        4              2
S.     ater tanker                       10,00  Lit      6s,000.00          1         -         -         -        I              a 
10.   StIn Distributor                    6,750 Lit        2,00o.00         2         1         1         -         4              s           1         31
1a.   csepol/e/lloy Empter                                                  a         -         -         -         1              1           -
it.   Aqa trailor letter                                                    1         -         -         -         I              I
is.   rueck-souet Aqu  jetter                             70,000.0-
14.   4-I  Bard-top  ag                    -Seter         -                 1         -         -                   1
1S.   Water-cycle                           0e8           -                 20        -                   -         20             *
1t.       o 1oe d r                       1.2Cm U         50s00.00          2         -         -         -         2              2           -
12,   WAeel  oadorC/fezvatQr              1.ICu 3         50,000.00         2                   -         -         3              2
10U   Trck-s ented scct. sweaper          -               70,000.00         -         -         -         -         -              -           -          4
1i.    _msor atteobuest                   -               12,000.00         1         -         -         - I                      I
20.   rrkltft                             -t -                                          ' -     -         - 
21.    Mcevatar, track-type               -               -                 2         -         1         -         3              2
n2     o wctor rader with Scaritier       1400            -                 1         -         -         -         1 
* 22a.   ater Graer With Ripd             1003W           140,000.00        -         -         -         -         -              -           3
24.   Dofer ttralc-tnye                   140P            130000.00         1         -         -         -         1              1
25h   ipper, fCr Door                     -                12,e00.00        -         -         -         -         -              -           -
20.   DMer with nipper ttack-typ          160G3           140,000.00        -         -         -         -         -              .           3
27.   StatiC Roller                       10-12 two        45,000.00        1         -         -         -         1              1           I
2t.  Puuatie Rdller                       10 toe"           4,000.o0        1         -         -         -         1                          -
5.   vbratory q otler                     t to"             0o,0eo.00       -         -         -         -         -              -           -
daobl drus                                                                                                                   6
i0.   Pedestrima  Vibratory Rollre       e50kg              9,000.00        5         -                   -         0              4           1t        21
S1.   Comcrete sier, large  Ise           ooltra. Saied    5,000.00         2         2         2         -         6              2
3,   eceoerete RI= r,  nll  se            IsOlta. Iued    2,600.00          4                             -         4              -           12
ludge 81_                                 S. r'0oo000                        -        -         -         -         -              S           -
24.   Air esprs oer                       7.0o/uls         27,450.00        4         -         -         -         4              4                     27
.   need  _umpe                           st keo.cU #    9,500.0            5         -         -         -         s                          -
IF S_d Trailer                            -                25,000.00        3         -         -         -         3              2
37.   cold Itmelos Spryr                  4501trs.         22,000.0         3         -         -         -         S              -
N.   ternal Coret vibrator                SuP               1,600.00        -         -         -         -         -              -           12
at.      te  cetor                        5o                2,400.4         -         -         -         -         -              -           12        32
40.   agriuttrai Stactor                  53               16,00.800
41.   tipping Treator Trailer             4-                22,000.00
42.   am daagNblgne                       -                 4,oot.oo        -         -         -         -         -              -           -
4).   wod  aVI" machie                    -                 4,500.40        -         -         -                                              -t
44.   Apat a   COCt w                      0                  ,10.0          -         -         -        -         -                          12                              
45.   Tailgate WA  Agrovato 6Seader       -                  5,060.00                  -        _         _         2              _           _0-
46. sract   sd with  ad                   40 toe,0.0                         -         -        -         -         - -
Traile                                                                                                                                                                 Oh 
47.   9uoumatIO  rakr                                                                                                                          22
40.   sitsme stotorg  tank                                                                                                                     2         25                  *
(with heating systm)
4.   MIm. ho ms :  .__ ...... a.nt ....      ,,-2-



72
Page 1 of 3
RPULIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
InssWionl Suppoit to Town & Cowea Planing
and Mhst of Lecal Government
LAnduse Planning and Controls
1.    Landuse planing and controls by the Town & Country Planning Deparment need to
be strengthened to create and mainain sound, dynamic urban forms with component layouts
of rational circulation sytem. Sustained town planning measures are required to protect and
preserve road reservations (and related infrastucture wayleaves), which form the base of
traffic circulation system, and which in Ghanaian circumstances are highly exposed to
encroahments by land speculators and private developers long before public authorities are
able to organize resources to construct them.
2.    'he landuse planning and control system suffers from:
(a)   lack of maps for quick, reliable plan-makdag and landuse conflict resolution n
rapidly expanding metropolitan and urban areas;
(b)   lacking resources for day-to-day town field guidance and monitoring of
mutifrious prive and public physical developments competimg for urban
space;
(C)   Immobilty of suvey, inspectorate and monitoring staft, resultant weakening
or abandonment of public control over reservations for roads, public utilities
and services; and consequeal encroachmts and severe constain  in
Infrastructure ad service delivery;
(d)   lacking rerces for organizing and susaining public education to semre the
cooperation of offending land-owners, developers and the general public; and
(e)   poor development control recotds and information system, which 'ils to
respond promptly to enquiries and service requests of developers, and winch
threr makes room for uncontrolled development in the rapidly expanding
metropolitan and municipal ceters.
3.    Resources under this program for suppordng Town & Country Planning are to be
allocated for: (a) strengthening the department's development control and records system; Ob)
staff trainig and public educaion; and (c) vehicles for field operations and monitoring of
physical development.



73                        Ai=e 4&2
Pag 2 of 3
4.    1 rspon  to h critcal mapping needs for all settlements I the couty,
comproeensive mapping requirement are receiving  eion under the Envitonenta Acton
Pl1  Hence, the resources of this program ae resaved for the other oudined conerms of
the deatmet.
(a)    Dereleput Coate, wad Infomnlon Systm  Required to renew and
strengthen the development control records and information system of the five
cities are:
0I)   technical assistance to examine and establish an Improved,
computerized system (cost $40.000); and
(ii)   equipment for the improved system (cost $130,000).
@b)   Vedes for Fe  Owetens and Monitodag The five cites require pick-
up to faiilitate the field work of survey, inspectrate and monitoring staff. A
program budget of $120,000 is allocated for 6 double cabin pick-ups and 10
mot bicycles for distibution as indicated in the table below.
(c)   Stf Dihatg and Pubic E aon Three categories of training and public
edcation are planned to receive support from the program.
'he first is an intal, upgrading staff trainig which wfll be required to
manage the development control records system to be overhauled.
Ile second would comprise of an overseas postgraduate course and an
overseas practcal attachment in transporatioplanning for em servn
officer. This training is aimed at imprving efectiveness in collaboration and
mopea-tion between the Department of Town & Country Planning and the
Depament of Urban Roads and others in urban transporation planning and
management.
Mm third will consist of seminas and workshops amed at oducang the
public and secuing the cooperation of landowners and developes in manag
u        growth, and in preventing and removing spatal obstructions In
-Inrsrcture and service delivery.
A tota of $55,000 is earmarked for education and taining, with saff traing
eceivin $40,000 and public education having $15,000.
ipp   to the MiAstry of La  Government
S.    The above outlined support to Town & County Plannig demands a tot program
budget of $385,000.
6.     he Ministy of Locd Govenuent requitre improved statisticd aysis capacty.
Twnty thousand dollars has been allocated for training and practical  in tds fildd.



74                        AnnexA
Page 3 of 3
SMUppo  to TDow  Of Countr PlAnnng
SekondUl
Accaa  Kmsi  Taloradi  Tamale   Tem            $
Dsvelopmen Cg=WlRcod
Technical Assistance                                                    40.000
Equipment:
Computer                  1        1         1         1      1
Photocopier               1        1         I         1      1        130,000
Ma Prie                                      1
Shelves
Fied QW    & Mobns
Vehicles (DC pick-ups)    2        1         1         1       1       120,000
Motor Bicycles            3        2         2         2      1         20,000
Uziag g&. Public ducaEtion CCE)
Staff Tning                                                             40,000
Public Education
(Seminars & Workshops)                                                 lSOOO
Towal Town & Country Plaig                 365,600
TrininMLQ)
Taining and practical attacbments                                      .20.0
TOTAL MLG & TCP



75                         AnnexIfl
Page I of 12
RPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban ?Wzaspe4 Uni
Background
1.    In Ghana the primary responsibility for the setting of urban transport policy is held by
the MOTC. However, the imple aion of the policy requires the cooperation of sevra
other agencies including the Metropolita Municipal Assemblies who are legally responsible
for the construction of all secondary and tertiary roads in the cities, the Department of Urban
Roads (DUUR) who currendy undertake the constucton and periodic maintenance of ura
roads, and the Motor Traffic Units (MTU) of the Ghana Police Force who are responsible for
the enforcement of traffic laws.
2.    To coordinate the development of urban transport policies, the government has
estalished an inter-ministerial Urban Transport Policy Committee (UTPC), chaired by the
Secretary for Transport and Communications. The membership of this committee will include
the Secretary for of Roads and Highways, the Inspector-General of Police, and the Secretary
of Local Government. It is expected this committee will meet relatively infrequenlly to make
importat policy and resource decisions. Technical and implementaon iu   will be
managed by the Urban Transport Implementation Committee (UTIC), chaied by the Chief
Director (Planning and Implementation) from the MOTC.
3.    The Ministry of Transport and Communications currey has very limited in-house
capability to undertake urban transport planning studies and analyze policy options. In the
past it has had to rely on ad-hoc assistance from consultants to perfom these functions.
Given the inasing demands and complexity of transport services in the cities of Ghana, it is
desirable to strengthen the in-house capability within Ministry. The Urban Transport Unit has
been established to ensure that approprate advice can be provided prompdy to decision
makers on all aspects of urban transport planning and policy. The UTU will also ptovide a
technical setarat for the UTPC and the UTIC.
Terms of reference
4.    Specifically the duties of the UTU shall include:
(a)   the establishment and maintenance of an urban transport data base;
O)    monitoring the performance of urban public transport;
(C)    undertaking planning studies for urban transport;



76
Page 2 of 12
(d)   the    _         of cotants udertak    urbn transport studies for the
MT;
(e)    providing dvie and assistance with the preparation of urban transport
legsato;
(t)   liaise with all other government agencies, including the municipal assemblies
and the Department of Urban Roads on the provision of facilities for urban
public transport including bus lanes, stops and lorry parks and bus terminals;
(g)   provide asistance to AMA, and the other Municipal Assemblies, on the
establishment and deveopment of parking and traffic units;
(O)   liaison with operators of urban transport;
)    fosteng urban transport research; and
(j)    provide a technical secretariat for the Urban Transport Policy Committee and
the Udr   Transport Implementation Committee.
S.    'Me Unit will be headed by a Deputy Drector, supported by a corcted Urban
Transport and stafed by five tansport planners and economists. Two of these staff members
are already in position and one will be added each year betweer 1994 and 1996.
*     Deputy DlreOr A Pdncal Planning Officer will be appointed to head the
unit. He or she will be responsible for the work of the Unit and will report
to the Chief Director (Planning and Implementation).
*     U,eaM TAniapt Adviser See Attachment 1.
*      halUn Staff 'he Director will be supported by five planning officers at the
Senior Planing, Planning and Assistant Planning Officer grades. Each should
have an appropriate qugification In subjects such as civil engineering,
economics, stadstics or computer science.
*     Of her Adviors Speciaist advisors will be contracted to develop the capability
of the unit to handle activities such as: regulation and magement of privae
transport operators; transpot legiWadion; transport surveys; transport
modelling and studies; and transport pricing and economics.



77                         Anx4
Page 3 of 12
6.    M.t,afs and Equpment lTe following vehicles and eqr pment wilM be pwvided fo
the Unit.
Estimated Cost
(S 000)
1.    One 4WD vehicle                                                   22.0
2.    Two saloon cars for consultants                                    24.0
3.    Two photocopiers, two typewriters, two PCs and sundry
equipment. two laser printers                                     ,Q
TOTAL                                         90.0
7.      A comprehensive training program will be prepared by the Urban Transport Advisr
for staff joining the UTU. Ihe objective wIll be to develop the analytical and policy
development skill of the members of the unit. It wIll have four major components:
(a)    during the course of the UTP, three members of staff from the unit (at a rate
of not more than one per year) will receive traning in either transport
planning, transport management or economics and specialist topics such a
project appraisa; policy analysis; management of private trasport operators;
and road safety;
(b)   short term secondments to overseas institutions and government agencies; nd
(c)    on the job training provided by local and overseas consultant.
Work Ptogram
B.      The work program for the Unit will include the following studies which wIll be
carried out in consultation with DUR and the MMAs:
(a)   regulatory options for improving the quality and quantity of public transpont in
Ghana (see Atachment 2);
(b)    management of the lorry parks and bus teminals in Accr' (see Auachment 3);
(c)   the management of ptring in central Accra (see Attachment 4); and
(d)   options for the private-sector participation in the Government bus compaia
(see ttanchment 5).



78                         Aatex
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 12
U-w, Duupei Adveor
Urbn Tfaport Advor
I1.    An experienced expatriate trUanport planning speciist will be recruited to assist with
the development of the Unit and to provide advice on all aspects of urban transport policy and
planning. He will act as counterpart Director. His duties will include:
(a)   proviing advice the development of the UTU's work program;
(b)   planning and Implementation of uban transport training courses;
(c)   providing advice surveys and their analysis;
(d)   providing advice study methodology;
(e)   provision of policy advice; and
(t)   provision of advice to the Municipal Assemblies on policy implementation and
the management of urban transport.
2.      The candidates for this position should have:
(a)   an appropriate degree or equivalent in a subject such as civil engiern,
economics or law, and a post graduate degree in transport plannig, or
equivalent qualificadon;
0)   extensive study andhor policy development experience;
(c)   good com cation skills;
(d)   ideally, worked as either a senior goverment decision maker andlor as a
senior manager of a major public tnsport operator; and
(e)    worked in developing countries, ideally in Africa.



79                          Annlex 4AQ
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 12
Regulatory Options for Improing the Qualty and Quantiy
of Public Trmpn in Ghana
Objectives
1.    To defie a revised regulatory structure for public transport which will encourage the
provision of higher quality services by the owners of the private buses.
2.    The bulk of the public transport service in Ghana are provided by the private sector
using a wide variety of vehicle types varying in size from four or five seat taxis, many locally
made buses and a more limited supply of purpose made buses. Both the vehicles in use and
the services provided are of a variable quality. Government formally licenses and regulates
all public tansport vehicles. However, there is no evidence that ere is any formal entry
control or that the current mandatory vehicle inspections have any significant impact on the
quality of the vehicles that are in use.
3.    All the services operate out of "lorry parks" (make-shift trasport terminals). Each
terminal is managed by a Union, of which the largest is the Ghana Private Road Transport
Union. The Union have particular set of operating rules which require operators to fill each
bus before it is allowed to leave the terminals. These rules delay passengers and make it
almost impossible to board between tenninals. It leads to overcrowding of the terminals, are
an excessive number, and that each is larger than would be required with regulations which
promoted on-street and scheduled operations.
4.    There are currendy about 21,116 registered taxis in Ghana, 20,911 tro-tros, and 2,099
large buses. Many taxis are cuently used as shared taxis and operate as small but relatively
expensive buses. In some streets of the central area they currently make up a very large
percentage (43%) of the traffic flow. These vehicles are making relatively inefficient use of
the available road space compared to the larger public transport vehicles. There is a strong
case for promoting the use of larger more efficient vehicles.
Tasks
5.    The study program should include the following:
(a)   review the existing legislation, regulations and government practices, which
have an impact upon the types of vehicle in use and public transport
operations. This review should indude all road traffic and transport laws and
the other regulations which may restrict the availability and use of vehicles
such as import restrictions and duties and laws regulating the provision of
finance for the purchase of vehicles;
(b)   review the current methods of operations in the bus terminals;



80                         Anne 410
Atment 2
Page 6 of 12
(c)   idendfy tie regulatory constraints, both official and unofficial, which shape
the public trsort system in Ghana;
(d)   develop options for the reform of the regulatory structure which will promote
both improved quality and quantity of transport and the use of more
appropriately sized vehicles;
(e)   estimate and evaluate the impact of the options; and
(f)   select a preferred option and prepare draft instructions for new legislation,
regulations and operating procedures.
Input
*     Urban Transport Policy Action Program, Ross Silcock Partership, 1991
Outt
*     Report to the Urban Transport Policy Coordinating Group
Staff Input
UTU Staff                 3 months
Urban Transport Advisor   1 month
Local Consultznt          3 months
Overseas Consultant       0 months



81
81                 ~~~~~Annex 4-10
Attachment 3
Page 7 of 12
Beter Management of Lory Parks ad Bus Tenblms
Objective
1.    To develop an operating strategy for the lorry parks and bus teminals in Accra,
Kumasi, SekondilTakoradi, Tema and Tamale which will promote more efficient usage.
Bagumnd
2.    The bulk of the public transport service in Ghana are provided by the private sector
using a wide variety of vehicle types varying in size from large numbers of four or five seat
taxis, many locally made buses and a more limited supply of purpose made buses. Both the
vehicles in use and the services provided are of a variable quality.
3.    All the services are operated out of "lorry parks' (make shift public transport). Each
terminal is managed by a Union, of which the largest is the Ghana Private Road Transport
Union. The Union have particular set of operating rules which require operators to fill each
bus before it is allowed to leave the terminals. These rules result in longer delays for
passengers, ensures that it is almost impossible to board between terminals and that there is a
large accumulation of buses in the terminals at any one time. This practice also means that
there are l large number of bus parks and that each is larger than would be required with
another form of regulation wh!ch promoted on-street and scheduled operation. A change in
the operating rules for terminals may result in a reduction in the mber of terminals required
to service the existing fleet.
4.    The destinations served by each terminal is 'historical fact", current practice has
developed over time with no opportunities to rationalize their use. For example, some long
distance services are required to cross the city center when it would be more efficient for
them to StOp outside the ring road. Current practice and usage also encourages large mbrs
of shared taxis to enter the central area when it would be more efficient for central area
terminals to be served by larger vehicles.
Tasks
S.    The study team will:
(a)   review existing data on the location and usage of public transport terminals;
(b)    make an assessment of fuure public transport demand in 1998;
(c)    assess the impact of proposed changes in relations (see Attachment 1) upon
fleet composition;
(d)    assess the vehicuar demand for space in public transport terminals, both
existng and fitre (1998);



82
AnnLex 410
Attachment 3
Page 8 of 12
(e)   identify possible new sites for terminals;
(f)    develop alternative operating strategies for the terminals taking account the
number and distribution of the terminals, the destinations of the routes to be
served from each terminal, and the size and type of vehicles which will be
permitted to use each site;
(g)   evaluate options against economic, financial, operational and social criteria.
(N.B. Full consultation with the Unions will be required), and
(0)   evaluate existing charging policies and cost recovery mechanism  with a view
to substantially increasing revenues collected. Recommendations should be
made on charges, collection methods, accounting and auditing procedures;
(i)   assess the annual maintenance requirements and costs of the rehabilitated
parks and recommend means of funding maintenance from revenues collected;
and
-a)   select option and prepare implementation plan.
inputs
e     Reports by Comptran prepared for MOTC
*     Outputs from study of bus regulations (see attachment 1)
Outputs
*     Report to the Urban Transport Policy Coordinatg Group
Staff Inputs
UTU Staff                 6 months
Urban Transport Advisor   1 month
Locl Consultants          6 months
Foreign Consultants       0 months



Go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
~~~~                         I!~~~~~1 
be~~~~UI*
I                       I                     I~J



84                         AInnex 4:10
A4
Page 10 of 12
Inputs
ADTMIS Report
*     TDP Report
*     Comptran's report prepared for MTC
Outputs
*     Report for submission to the Urban Transport Policy Committee and the
Municipal Assembly
Staff Inputs
UTU Staff                 4 months
Urban Transport Adviser    I month
Local Consultants         3 months
Foreign Consultants       0 monhis



85                        Anng 4:1
Attachment S
Page 11 of 12
Pdvae Sedor PWdpation in the Goveenwat Do Coadaes
A Shwy of Opdions
Objective
1.    To increase the efficiency of the three government owned bus companies through
private sector participation.
Background
2.    'here are three publicly owned bus companies in operation in Ghana-State Transport
Company (STC), City Express Services (CES) and Omnibus Services Authority (OSA). STC
operates only between cities while CES and OSA have a mandate to provide urban services.
However, both these companies have found it increasingly difficult to compete with the
private sector in the cites and have effectively withdrawn from urban operations. Tbis
tendency has been reinforced by the decision of govermment not to subsidize direcdy the
operations of the companies and the increasingly bad traffic congestion in the center of Accra.
3.    Despite the decision of the government not to pay direct operating subsidies each
company is receiving less direct support forms of financial support from the government. In
particular, the government Is guaranteeing the loans entered into by the companies to purchase
new buses. From the iormation available, the recent borrowing of OSA and CES are still
high compared to their respecve fare tevenues. It is probable that the financial links
between government and the companies will once again become apparent once the government
have to pay out gainst the loan guarantees.
4.    Ihe oppornity for reducing costs in Ghanas public bus companies are certWin.
Private sector bus operation is already the standard in many countries around the world, such
as in the UK (outside London), most countries in South America and in many countries in
Asia such as Hong Kong and Korea. Also even where public bus companies remain in
government ownership, costs have been reduced substantially where they have been required
to.operate on a 'level playing field", in direct competition with the private sector, and where
only targeted subsidies are paid for the provision of specific services.
Tasks
S.    The study team will:
(a)   prepare company profiles including an:
(i)   evaluation of physical assets;
(i)   evauation of current operations;
(iii)   aement current financial performance;



86                          Annex 4rl
Attacment S
Page 12 of 12
(iv)   evaluation of future markets;
(v)    estimates of future trffic; and
(vi)   estmate crrent future financial position assuming minimum change to
existing companies.
(b)    define opdons for private sector participation including: enployee ownership;
private magemeutlpublic ownership; contracting out selected functions (es.
all or some mainac); sale of company; and, sale of assets;
(c)    estimte coms and benefits of each options using social, fmancial and
economic arguments;
(4)    evaluat optons agnt  both social, ecnomic and finsa   criteria and
(e)    select option and prepare implementation or divestiture plan.
inputs
*     Company accounts
*     Past government reports
*     Rers to the Urban Trasmport Policy Coordinating Committee and the
Divestwe Implementation Commnittee
Staff Inputs
UTU Staff                  3 months
Urban Trasport Advisor     1 month
Local Consultant           3 months
Expatrte Consultants
Bus Specialist      I month
AccontA             2 months



87                         Annex 4-11
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Dr4ft TOR for Oa Roa Safety CoMoaent
1.    This component will build upon the foundations created by the Ghana Road Safety
Project which formed part of the first Transport Rehabilitation Project (IRP-1). As part of
this Project a National Road Safety Committee was established along with the institutions
required for accident data collection, enforcement, vehicle inspection and the design and
implementation of remedial measures. In addition, an Road Safety Action Plan (RSAP) was
developed which provides a framework for all existing and future road safety activities,
including those included in the Transport Rehabilitation Project C(P-2)1 and the component
included in this project.
2.    The National Road Safety Committee (NRSC) is supported by a full time secretariat.
It is responsible for the coordination of road safety activities; organization of publicity and
education campaigns. In addition there are four other goverment agencies that have inter-
locking road safety responsibilities, as follows: Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MTC) (traffic legislation; vehicle inspection; driver licensing); Ghana Police Service-Motor
Traffic Units (MIU) (enforcement, accident recording, accidient investigation); Building and
Road Research Institute (BRI) (collation and analysis of data); and Department of Urba
Roads (DUR) and Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) (road safety audits of new and
rehabilitated roads, design and implementation of remedial measures).
3.    Although these institutions are in still in place, it is clear that, given the competing
priorities in all agencies, road safety is not yet receiving the attention it deserves. Hence, the
primary of objective of this component is to provide the additional support necessary to
ensure that the institutions created and equipped by TRP-1 and TRP-2 can tackle road safety
more effectively. Specifically, the component will strengthen the coc.dination of national
road safety institutions and addresses the road safety needs in the major cities of Accra,
Takoradi-Sekondi, Kumasi, Tema and Tamale with particular reference to the safety of
pedestrians and the users of non- motorized vehicles.
' TRP-1 established a full time Natonal Road Safety Committee (NRSC); set up an
accident recording and data collection system; identified accident black-spot locations and
assisted GRA and DUR with the design of remedial measures; improved police enforcement;
improved vehicle testing and examination facilities; and provided consultnt services. TRP-2
provided some additional support to the NRSC and for accident recording and analysis;
provided continued training for OHA and DUR and materials for the implementation of
remedial measures; provided additional support and training for the MTU; expanded the
vehicle examination and inspecton facilities; provided additional local and oveseas training
for the staff from all agencies involved; and made available 3 man-months of consultants
input.



88
Annex 4-11
Page 2 of 5
4.    Given the institutional complexity of this project component, an expatriate project
coordinator, a Road Safety Adviser (RSA), is required to assist in developing the detailed
program for each sub-component, to monitor progress and to assist government with the
attainment of the program objectives. The consultant should be a technical specialist with
relevant technical and management experience. Move detailed terms of reference for the RSA
are provided below.
S.    It is envisaged that the RSA would make an extended visit to Ghana early in the
project followed by visits of one month at approximately four month intervals (15 man
months total) for the balance of the project. Shorter visits by specialists in disciplines such as
drive training, enforcement and vehicle inspection would be scheduled as required.
6.    Ihe component will have four parts which are designed to:
(a)   improve coordination of road safety activities;
(b)    promote the safety of pedestrians and NMV users;
(c)   strengthen the Vehicle Examination and Licensing Division;
(d)   strengthen the operations of the Motor Traffic Units of the Ghana Police
Force; and
(e)   train UTU staff on road safety issues.
Coordination of Road Safety Activities
7.    A primary objective of this sub-component is to raise both the political importance of
road safety while promoting and facilitating the improved coordination and development of all
the agencies. Ihe is sub-component will:
(a)    provide technical assistance and support to the National Road Safety
Committee (NRSC);
(b)    assist the NRSC with the establishment of regional committees for major
cities; and
(c)    assist the NRSC with the establishment of a sub-committee for legislation.
8.    The assistance will be provided by the Road Safety Adviser. Additional mateas,
listed in Annex 4A, will be provided to support the NRSC and the regional sub-committees.
Prmote the Safety ot Pedestrians and NMV Usm
9.    This part of the component will highlight the safety of pedestrians and the users of
NMVs. An analysis of the accident records shows that over 40% of accidents in GOha
Involve pedestria. By international standards this is a very high percenage. Further, the
use of NMVs In Accra, and in particular cycles, is to be promoted by this project. It will:



89                         Annex 4-11
Page 3 of 5
(a)    provide support and assistance to BRRI to design a research program to
determine the major causes of pedestrian accidents;
(b)    provide assistance and training to strengthen the DUR's abilities to design
remedial measures; and
(c)    assist NRSC with the design and implementation of school and community
based campaigns designed aimed particularly at pedestrians and cyclists in the
cities.
10.   Assistance will be provided by the Road Safety Advisor with additional inputs
provided by local consultants to assist the collection of accident statistics and the design and
implementation of the publicity and education campaigns.
Strengthen the Vehcle Examination and Licensing Division
11.   TIRP-1 and TRP-2 have provided equipment for four of the Divisions' eighteen
inspection stations to improve its capacity to undertake the inspection of vehicles. The
primary objective of this sub-component is to ensure that this equipment is used more
efectively. Other objectives are to faciitate a moderate expansion of the vehicle inspection
program and an evaluation of driver examination procedures and practices: The sub-
component will:
(a)   review and strengthen vehicle inspection procedures;
(b)    provide furier training of inspection staff;
(c)   review and Strengthen driver testing procedures;
(d)    provide further training for driving examniners;
(e)    preparing guidelines for students and examiners;
(t)   review associated legislation and propose amendments; and
(g)   provide equipment and materials, as listed in the Attached Annex.
12.   The Road Safety Advisor will provide assistance to the MTC with the preparation of
terms of reference for short term consultants to review the effectiveness of the existing vehicle
inspection and driver trWaining progams. Both studies will include reviews of: existing
procedures and practice; existing legislation; the revenues and costs of the programs; and
existng recruitment, training and other aspects of staffing policy. The studies wil
recommend appropriate changes to the programs and legislation.
13.   The Road Safety Advisor will assist the MTC with the implementation of the dhanges
in the programs and the legislation.



90                         Axnex 4-11
Page 4 of 5
Strengthening Role of the M1TU
14.   The MTU lack the necessary resource to fulfill their responsibilities effectively. This
sub-component will:
(a)   review and strengthen the performance of MTU training programs;
C.)   review and strengthen the role of MTU in cities using central Accra as a
demonstration project; and
(c)   provide equipment and materials as listed in the attached Annex.
15.   The Road Safety Advisor will assist the Deputy Commissioner for Police responsible
for the MTU with a review of his local training programs for his unit. This review should
emphasize the training needs of the trainers. He should assist the Deputy Commissioner with
the implementation of the agreed program.
16.   Ihe Road Safety Advisor should also with the MTU with the design and
implementation of a demonstration project for central Accra (the area in Accra covered by the
invesment component of this project) which can be used to demonstrate the importance of
trffic enforcement and road safety in the city.
Road Safety Adviser
17.   The Road Safety Advisor (RSA) will provide advice to the Ghana government on all
aspects of road safety. He wIll be appointed by the Government of Ghana and will be report
to the Chief Director (Planming and Implementation). He will be attached as an advisor to the
National Council for Road Safety and will report to the Director.
18.   The general duties of the RSA will include:
(a)   to provide advice on all aspects of road safety including: data collection and
analysis; design of engineering remedial measures; design of education
campaigns; vehicle inspection and driver training; and police enforcement;
(b)   to design training courses; and
(c)   to teach selected courses.
19.   The specific duties of the RSA shall include:
(a)   advise on the operations of the NRSC and the establishment of regional
committees;
(b)   adviser to a research project studying pedestrian safety;
(c)   assist with design of taffic engineering remedW schemes;



91                         Ann &11
Page 5 of 5
(d)   advise on the design and Implementation of educaional and publicity sdm
directed at pedestriwa and users of NMVs;
(e)   assist with the preparation of the terms of reference for review of the vebicle
inspeco and driver licensing programs;
(t)   assist with the design of training programs for traffic police proel; and
()    assist with the design and implementation of a taffic enforcement
demonstation project for Accra.
20.   Qalnie The RSA wll have at least 10 years exsperence of road safety
activities with management and policy making experience. All qualified candidates are likely
to have:
(a)    a degree in civil engineering or equivalent;
@b)   a higher degree in transport planing and egieering;
(c)    mangement experience of road safety activities;
(d)   policy making experience;
(e)   good communication skills; and
(t)    work experience in a developing county, preferably in Africa.
21.   Terms of Apolsment lhe RSA will be appointed for a the duratio of the Urban
Transport Project to provide an input of approximly 15 person monts over a 4 yea
priod. Mhe input during the first year wfll be 6 months and 3 months In eac of the
fWlowing 3 yeas with the consultant expected to make at least 3 visits every year,
Traig
22.   Trang provided as part of this project component wil be designed to reinforce
existing slll in aU instttions withspecW attention being given to the tanng of trainersli
the MTU, the NRSC, VELD and the MTC.



92
Page I of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Ministry of Roads and Highways
Department of Urban Roads
Orgadzton wad Management tdes - Draft Tenns of Referene
Bakground
1.    Tne early years of Ghanaian Independence saw a program of acceleraed development
of urbam infastuctre, particularly in the areas of road construction. The responsibility for
the main ce of this network was left entirely In the hands of the then Municipal/City
Councils which unfortnately did not have the requisite material or human resources for this
task In 1987, the Department of Urban Roads (DUR) was established and made responsible
for Development, Maintenance and Traffic management for the entire network in the cities of
Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema. ITese responsibilities will be spread to other
cities and towns in due course. Presently under the Urban II project between the Government
of Ghana and the World Bank, Tamale roads will be added to Department of Urban Roads
operations. The Department of Urban Roads is one of the three agencies under the Ministry
of Roads and Highways. The other agencies are the Department of Feeder Roads and Ghana
Highway Authority for Trunk Roads. The Departmert of Urban Roads administers a total of
1,800 km in the four urban centers of Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema and is
headed by a director who reports to the Minister responsible for Roads and Highways. The
Terms of Reference lays the basis for a study of the organization and management of the
actiities of the Department of Urban Roads and the vertical, lateral growth of the department
in light of the current Civil Service Reform Program as well as the Local Government
decentralization law of the government.
Objective
2.    The objective of consultancy services under this Terms of Reference are:
(a)    Develop the most appropriate organizational stucture for both the Department
of Urban Roads, Head Office and the regional levels to effectively manage
and monitor its operations;
(b)   Job description, classification and staffing requirements for Department of
Urban Roads both at Head Office and the City Roads Units within the context
of increasing responsibility and expansion in urban road rehabilitation and
(c)    Undertake a SWOT analysis and make recommendations for reducing threats
and strengthening weak areas;



93                          Anne 412
Page 2 of 6
(d)    Dtrmine Departmen of Urban Roads staffing requirements and training
needs within the medium and long term including a specific progism to be
funded under the UTP, to match DUR's increasing work load;
(e)    Assess DUR's work load and level of distributzj.n between force account and
contract in order to arrive at the most cost effecdve overall performance
taing into consideaton DUR's oveal role and strategy and Government
decentralization policy;
(t)    Review the relationship between DUR and the various Metropolitan
Assemblies under the Government's decentralization policy;
(g)    Develop strategy for DURs growth both lateraly and vertically, i.e.
modalities for the establishment of new DRUs in other regions;
O)    Identify staffing needs and other resources required and put forward proposals
for establishing a district roads unit in Tamale; and
(i)    Coordinate study with Management Services Division of the Office of Read of
Civil Service to incorporate reconmmendatiens from the civil service reform
program.
Scope of Consultant Services
3.    The consultant shall study present DUR's requirement and orational structure,
effective management of its operation, relationship between DUR and the district assemblies
and staff training within the broad objective of DUR and Government decntraization policy
and recommend improvements to DUR to operate efficiently. Tle consultant shall review all
available studies especially the recent Civil Service Restructure and current legislation of
Government within the Roads and Highways and local Govemment sectors, identify theats
and weaknesses of the present organizational structure of DUR and address inconsistencies
within the context of such legislation. The consultant shall carry out the study in partnership
widt the Management Services Division of the Office of the Read of Civil Service.
4.    The consultant shall catry out the following:
(a)    To study the present organization and functions of the Department and make
recommendations for its modification or strengthening, and identify
responsibilities at different levels of management both within the Head Office
and the District Road Units.
(b)   In the long term, DUR will be responsible for implementation of activities that
are ratonally centralized. This includes regulation and dissemination of ideas
for traffic management; overall transportation planning; manteace planning;
standardization of design feaures including geometric, pavement, drainage,
traffic signs and signals, pedestrian facilities, and relate these with the
hierarchy of road and its function; annual budgeting; distribution of funds
from central Government; discussion with international lending agencies;
training; research, equipment standardization; and other policy issues. The



94
94                 ~~~Annex J1
Page 3 of 6
Consultant sball investigate how the present set up could be enhanced to
achieve the creation of D;strict Roads Units In all regional capitals and at a
later date tper operations into system-wide planning and policy funtions
emnmerated above. A timetable for creation of the remaining road units and
hading over of strengthened units shall he established, bearing in mind the
avaiable manpower for doing so.
(c)    For both the present and future functional levels, the consultant shall establish
functional and administatve relationship between:
(i)    DUR Head Offlce and Metropolitan/District Authorities;
(ii)   DUR Head Office and District Road Units;
(ii) District Roads Units and their respective Metropolitan/District
Authorities; and
(iv)   DUR Head Office and Ministry of Roads & Highways.
Among other things the consultant shall propose suitable communication
channels for the above mentioned agencies.
(d)    Assess and recommend the most cost effective distribution of works between
force account and contract, as well as distribution of aninering studies ana
design and contract supervision services between department force and
consultant services. In particular review the implications of contracting out
routine maintenance works and prepare an action plan for consideration.
(e)    Develop job classification, job description and staffing requirement of DUR to
effectvely implement the work program and distribution determined under (b)
above and the Government of Ghana (000) decentraization policy.
(f)    Review DUR's present functional and administrative relationship with the
MRH and the District Assemblies and other Government agencies with the
short term and long term and recommend improvements to be made vis-a-vis
the Government of Ghana decentralization and objective of DUR.
(g)    Review policies and procedures presently being followed by DUR in
procrement, personnel management Including hiring, firing and promotion.
Review policies relaing to management and utilization of funds and other
resources and based on the results of this review, recommend level of
authority to put in place in DUR in the stated areas to ensure efficiency and
cost effective implementation of DUR program adopted for the role of DUR
and the District Assemblies.
(i)    Determine DUR's staff training and interim institutional support requkiments
and to develop a training program for appropriate career development leading
to DUR's self-sufficiency in carrying out its responsibility.



95
Anlex 412
Page 4 of 6
(i)    Review present salaries and allowances of DUR staff with other Government
agencies and other similar organizations in the private sector and assess its
impact on performance and in close consultation with relevant government
ministries and recommend revised salaries and allowanc for the different job
classifications.
U)    A review of the stru,ture of the Organization and Management model of the
on-going management information system (MIS) in the MRH and DUR to
ensure their compatibility.
(k)    T'he consultant shall study the existing accounting system for DUR's internal
operation and make modifications in line with his recommendations.
1)    Ihe consultant shall establish a budget preparation program, based on a
timetable for data collection from the cities and analysis at the Head Office, to
be ready for discussion in the first week of September each year. The outline
for this must be computer based and properly integrated into the accounting
system.
(in)   To ensure that proposals are in line with the on-going civil service reform
program and existing civil service procedures, the consultant shall team up
with the Management Services Division of the Office of Head of Civil Service
which will provide about 3 manmonth input for the study. Among the
services to be provided are:
(I)    establishment of a cemeof servic for various grades in the
Department;
(ii)   introduction of the Performance Evaluation System; and
(ii)  obtaining approvals for DUR's enhanced staff compliment and specific
approval for staff compliment for Tamale DRU.
(n)    The consultant shall identify resources including manpower levels required for
the establishment of a District Roads Unit in Tamale, and based on
discussions with DUR, Tamale Metropolitan Authority and the Office of the
Head of Civil Service, establish a timetable for the establishment of the unit.
All Government approvals shall be obtained by the consultants, including the
approval of staff complement for the unit, and recruitment of a core staff to
start road maintenance operations.
Based on the findings above, the consultant shall prepare a practical
recommendation on the most appropriate organizatonal structre for DUR In
relation to the various District Assemblies. The consultant shall specify the
advantages of the recommended organizational structure and make
recommendations on DUR's effective planning, programming and monitntr
of urban roads development, maintenance, internal administrn of
personnel, budget and budgetary control and other resources, as well as
procurement 3f works, goods and services.



96                        Ann%412
Page 5 of 6
Facdlities to be Provided by DUR
S.    Department of Urban Roads will assist the consultant with all report and infonation
requested to enhance the work of the consultant. Relevant information on present
organizational structure, personnel management, budget processing, procurement procdue,
position classification and status of staffing will also be provided.
6.    DUR will provide an office space for use by the consultant, vehicles required for the
project should be costed in the financial proposals under reimbursable items. DUR will also
assist the consultant in obtning relevant information from Government agencies. The
Director of DUR and the Chief Executive Officer as well as the various City Roads Engineers
will always be available periodically to review the status of the study and assess the approach
and practicability of proposals. The consultant will review the present organizational struchte
of MRH (Civil Service Reform Program), DFR and GHA as well as any study done by these
agencies on their organizational and management structure.
Staffing and Time Schedule
7.    Based on Terms of Reference, about 10 manmonth of consultat input plus 3mm input
from Management Services Division of Office of Head of Civil Service will be required.
Consultant to comment on this.
StaMng
d.    In order to carry out this assigment, the consultant team may require the following
personnel input in various stages of the study:
(a)    An Organization Methods Specialist with a minimum of 20 years experience
in management of public works agencies with relevant experience in a
developing country (Project Manager - 5 manmonth).
(b)   A Senior Public Expert (Civil Engineer) with a minimum of 20 years
experience in management of public works agencies with relevant experience
in a developing country (2 manmonth).
(c)    Budgeting and Accounting Specialist with a minimum of 10 years expedence
(2 manmonth).
(d)   Management Services Division of Office of Head of Cii Service (3
(e)    Computer Expert (1 manmonth).
lime Schedule
9.    The consultant shall prepare and submit inception and fnal reports. The report
submission, review schedules and number of copies to be provided as follows:



97                         MMRe 4.12
Page 6 of 6
(a)   Inception Report: (10 copies) witIn 4 weeks of commencement of the study
in Ghana, the consultant will submit an inception report outlining his
preliminary findings and general outline of the forms of organization to be
studied, proposed methodology and schedule for the remainder of the
assignment
(b)   Draft Final Report (10 copies) should be submitted within 12 weeb after
receiving comments on inception report.
(c)    Final Report: (25 copies) within S weels after submission of Er-aft Final
Report. Comments on Draft Final Report will be submitted with 3 weeks.
Along with the Final Report will be proposed terms of reference for the
technical assistance required to implement the recommendations of the study.



98                         Annex 4-13
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Erablkshment of Pafu     and lh2ffic Unit
d the Meropolitan and Municpl Assembies
Badkrud
1.    The five major cities in Ghana (Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi/Takoradi, Tamale and Tema)
are experiencing trmendous growth mn size, population and traffic with attendant growth in
environmenal degradation. There has been an enormous increase in vehicle population in the
past decade. Over 80% of the national vehicle fleet is concentrated in these cities. This
concentration of vehicles, while reflecting economic activities is also one of the main causes
of congestion in the cities. Traffic congestion has reduced vehicle speed and increased
jouney times in these cities and thereby made the public transport system inefficient and
expensive. Moreover, the cities have not developed their parking infrastructure and are
therefore unable to provide adequate car parking spaces to meet current and anticipated
demand. Car parking in the cities therefore significandy contribute to the congestion and
disorder that has become characteristic of the CBD.
2.    It is agaist this background of traffic congestion and the under-development of
potena  sources of revenue from parking that the Metropolitan Assemblies plan to set-up
specialist units - the Parking and Traffic Units, which will be responsible for policy
development and management of parking infrastructure and traffic in the five cities.
Pancilons of the Parking and Trmc Units (PTIUs)
3.    The Parking and Traffic Units would be charged with the following responsibilities:
(a)   to liaise with the Motor Traffic Unit of Ghana Police on the enfrcement of
traffic and parking regulations;
(b)   to a:onitor and control traffic in the city;
(c)   to develop, manage and mantain the parking infrastructure in the city;
(d)   to liaise with private sector developers of parking facilities;
(e)   collect and monitor parking revenues; and
(M)    liaise with the District Road Units to maintain parking facilities.
Reours
4.    Manpower 'he PlUs will be staffed by professional transport engineers, economist,
traffic wardens and administatve staff. The PTU will be headed by directors who wiUl



99                         Awnp  4:13
Page 2 of 4
rePOrt W the Mpolitan Chief Executives. They will be responsible for formulation and
implementtion of parking policies in the Metropolitan Areas. The directors will be assisted
by a team of transport professionals, technical officers, traffic wardens and supporting
administatve staff.
S.    Orgaduzton Snwtre for the Pa6ig wd ?fic Unit Ihe organi'tional
structures have been designed to assist the PTUs to play important roles in implemenfting
corporate strategies. The structres would define and assign task to specific departments and
staff. They would also help to establish lines of authority and communication.
I   Metropobian Chief Executive
Director of Parking &
Traffic Enforcement Unit
Policy Development
Administration & Ticket      Parking Enforcement             Marketng &
Sales Manager                  Maner                  Monitoring Manager
6.    Polky Deeopment Managers Shall be responsible for:
(a)   conducting parking studies to develop strategies for parking developnt in
each city;
(b)    negotiating with private businessmen and financial institutions to develop
commercial car parking stations in the CBDs;
(c)    developing tickei  system such as voucher system  for paid on-seet and
off-treet parkirg;
(d)    monitoring revenue from parking;
(e)    development of parking facilities, pedsian walkways, and enbancement of
CBDs amenities; and
(t)    coordinating with the Dpartment of Urban Roads in the development of
traffic policy and schemes for each city.
7.    Parg    Eborement Managers Shall be responsible for:
(a)   the enforcement of day-to-day parking regulations and traffic laws in each
city;



100                        AM 4-13
Page 3 of 4
()    coordinae with the Motor Traffic Units (MTU) of the Ghana Police in the
enforcement of traffic laws;
(c)    developing penaies for traffic and parking offenses;
(d)    monitoring and collecting fines for traffic and parking offenses;
(e)   accommodating vehicles charged witi parking offenses; and
(t)    prosecuting owners of offending vehicles in traffic cours.
8.       w         and l&ket Managers Shall be responsible for:
(a)   the day-to-day administration of the Parking and Traffic Units;
(b)   collecting revenues from parking; and
(c)   collecting revenues from private pazking opeators and contra operators.
Manageme-t Support and I scal Requirements
9.    Around 22 months of local management and engineering consultancy support will be
provided to assist widt the development and implementation of admistrative, management
and accounting systems and car parking facilities. Particular emphasis will be placed on
improving revenues co'lected from lorry parks and bus terminals and making available more
off-street parking. Terms of reference for these consultancy inputs will be prepared by the
MMAs in consultation with DUR and UTU who will be responsible for preparing parking
policy.
10. The following logistical support will be provided to each of the five MMAs, in
accordace with their relative needs, to enable them fulfil their functions more effectively.



101                      Anmsex43
Page 4,.of 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L    oisis.unr for Acmp
1.  1 pick-up                                      15,000
2.  4 motorbikes                                    8,000
3.  communication equipment
- 1 base Staon                                 2,400
- 2 mobile set                                 4.000
- 2 hand se                                    4,000
4. office support
- 1 computer (PC) & printer                    8,000
- 2 electric tpewriters                        3,000
- 1 photocopier                                5,000
- stonary, etc.                                5,000
Total                                   54,400.00
I.  Logisd Sunnort for Kumasi
1.  2 motorbikes                                    4,000
2.  1 electric tpewriter                            1,500
3.  1 photocopier                                   5,000
4. . aor & misc.                                    3,600
Total                                   14,100.00
IfL Lo cs Suguort for Sekondi/Taokoradi
1.  2 motorbikes                                   4.000
2.  1 electic tewrie                                1,500
3.  1 photocopler                                   5,000
Tota                                    1050.00
IV.     tsSuport for TemI
1.  2 motorbikes                                    4,000
2.  1 electric typewriter                           1,500
3.  1 photocopier                                   5,000
Total                                   10,500.00
V.    lcs SUm   for  ale
1.  2 motorbikes                                    4,000
2.  1 electric pewriter                             1,500
3.  1 photooopier                                   5,000
Total        GOJSM.
GRAN  TOTAL               100,000.00



102                Ame 41
REPUBLUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CO_q4& lqps
INTERNAMIONAL    LOCAL
Monfth             Months
INPUT                                     MnrMnt
DEPARTMENT OF URBAN ROADS
1. Orgnization and Management                                                10                 3
2. Maintenance Management System (Design and                                 20
Implementation)
3. Studies for Future Projects                                               30                40
Sub-total                                            60                43
detailed-Design                                                                -               40
1. Access Improvements to Low Income Areas
2. Rehabilitation of Lorry Parks and Bus Terminals                                             S0
Sub-total                                                              90
1. Accra Road Rebabilitation                                                 66               144
2. SekondiiTakoradi Road Rehabilitation                                      27                75
3. Traffic Management Improvements                                            7                30
4. Access Improvements to Low Income Areas                                     -               90
S. Rehabiliton of Lorry Parks and Bus Terinals-                                                75
Emvironmental Assesment. Mgnitoring and EvWafluton
1. All works components.                                                                       10
Sub-otal                                            100               424
URBAN TRANSPORT UNfT
1. Policy Development Studies                                                 9                30
Sub-total                                             9                30
TOWN AND COUYTRY PLANNING DEPARTMEN1T
1. Design of Development Control System-                                                       12
Sub-total                                                              12
MINSTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMET
1. Management assistance to MMAs to establish parking uns.                                     22
TOTAL                                       169               621



103                         A     SlDIL415
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Coetvc Mangeent Spesit & Mankpl Engieer
Tenws of Reference
Ctac  angamt Spiatsl
ntoduction
1.    'Me Department of Urban Roads is the Implementation Agency for IDA-sponsored
Roads and Transport SystemS Management of the Urban II Project ana the proposed Roads
and Traffic Management component of the Urban Transport Project A Project Management
Unit has been created to assist the Department of Urban Roads in the coordination,
monitori  and reporting of all aspects of the two projects. This Terms of Reference seeks to
ltayout the basis for the services of a Contract Management Specialist (CMS) who will be
responsible for the Project Management Unit.
Objecives
2.    The basic objective for these services is to engage the team leader who wUl be
responsible for the organization, management and effective utilization of the resources of the
Project Management Unit to execute its functions.
Badcground Information
3.    Objec*ive of PMU
(a)    The Project Management Unit Is to assist the Department of Urban Roads
(DUR) to coordinate and report on all aspects of the DUR component of the
Urban I and the proposed Urban Transport Project.
(b)    To mainain an accounting unit to facilitate payments for work done and
prepare accounting reports in a manner acceptable to the Government of
Ghana and IDA.
(c)    To streamline procurent procedures for equipment and machines to be
purchased under the projects and to facilitate the setting up of a Mechanical
Workshop in the cities.
4.       1siag Orga_aton
5.    OAler Key Personnd The following positions in the PM'J have been filled:
(a)    Deputy Project Manager
(b)    Project Accounta
(c)    Mechanical Engineer



104                        Annex -4!
Page 2 of7
6.   Owr Ptojied Personnet It shall be the responsibility of the CMS to appoint vrious
supporting staff, secretaries and other ponnel required to support the core team In their
duties. The duties of such additinl staff shall be deflned by the CMS and his core team.
7.    Seconde St4ff An eogee wil be seconded from the DUR to the PMU. The
officer to be seconded will have experience in project coordination and reportin, with proven
ability in the use of computers. One programmer will also be initally seconded to the PMU
to assist in seting up the computer systems. Subsequently he/she will be available to the
PMU to solve specific problems for a stated period.
8.    Organor*ad Snue  of du PM(  'Me CMS shall be the head of the PMU and
shall report directly to the Acting Director of Department of Urban Roads. Appendix shows
the relationship between Department of Urban Roads (DUR) and Project Management Unit
(PMU).
Scope of Services of PMU
9.    Pmojedt Coordiraag It shall be the responsibility of the PMU to coordinate all
activities under the Roads and Transport Systems Management Components of the Urban
Transport and Urban I Projects. The PMU shall facilitate the disbursement of budgeted
amounts and ensure that project disbursement targets are met (see appendix ..... for itemized
components of Urban II under DUR).
10.   Projecd Acoandng The PMU will be responsible for the overall project component
accounting and the management of Special Accounts for the IDA and other co-financiers.
These duties shall include but not limited to:
(a)    Review of atl invoices from contractors and suppliers to determine their
conformity with contract and actual progress and prepare the necessary
documentation for payment.
(b)   Preparation of quarterly and annual budgets for various sub-components of the
project.
(c)    Maintain and control an expenditure stement for the project sub-component.
(d)    Make disbursement requests to appropriate agencies like the IDA and GOG.
(e)    Preparation of anmu  accounts for the project for auditing purposes.
(f)    Preparation of the final account at the c!ose of the project.
11.   Pmject Pmurement The PMU shall be responsible for all procurement for the DUR
under the project. These responsibilities shall include but not be limited to:
(a)    Streamlining procuremet procedures for plants, equipment and supplies for
the DUR.



105                        Annexk 41
Page 3 of 7
(b)   Drawing up of specificatons for the ptocuementi of plant, equipment and
supplies.
(c)    Setting up of a store management system for the cities under the jurisdictio
of the DUR.
12.   Pat  & Eqsgpmea Maewane Workshop Ihe PMU shall be responsible for
(a)    Desin and setting up of Mechanical Workshop and stores for the maitean
of plant and equipment to be purchased for the CRU's by the project and fiom
other sources.
(b) Identify the required persomnnel for the workshops and assist in the recruitment
exercise.
(c)    Organize a training progran for the personnel recruited for the workshops.
13.   Projed Repoitg The PMU shall be responsible for the overall reporting on the
Roads and Trausportadon Systems Maagements componen of UTP and Urban H. TMe
following reports shall be presented:
(a)   Monhl Reports Monthly Status Reports shall be presented to the DUR in 15
copies. They shall include the stats of each project sub-component and a
summary report.
(b)    Quarterly Progress Report Quarterly Progress Reports shall be presented In
15 copies. The report shal include progress reports on each sub-component
snd a summary report. The report sal comment on problems and
achievement and suggest measures for improving performace. The report
shall also present a forecast for the nezt quarter.
(c)     ual Report The Annual Report shall be the updated 4th qur report for
the reporting year and submitted in 15 copies.
(d)   Flna Project Report The Final Project Report shall include the final status of
project and the extent to which inital targets have been achieved. A final
account sball also be presented in this report. Recommendation for fitre
follow-up projects shall also be presented.
RespoSnbility of Contract Management Specalist
14.   The duties of the CMS shall include but not be limited to:
(a)   the overall orgaization and management of the Project Mnageme team
including personnel and all other resources to accomplish the services as stated
in 9-14;



106                        Annex 4-15
Page 4 of 7
(b)   ensure that the services are execed within the time frames set by
requirements of various project components;
(c)   collating and compiling torts from other key personnel for presentation in
terms and format states in paragraph 13;
(d)   attend and represent the DUR on Urban II and Urban Tnsport Project
Coordination Committee meetng and report back to the Actng Director;
(e)    he shall assist the DUR in the preparation of the Urban Traport Project and
assume additional responsibilities similar to that proposed for Urban 11 when
the project becomes effective; and
(t)    he shall take up other related responsibilities as and when directed by the
Acting Director of DUR.
Competence
15. The CMS shall possess a graduate degree or higher in Civil Engineering. He shall
have a minimum relevant post qualification experience of 15 years and must have served in a
top project manement position for at least 10 years.
Eqipment and Project Legistics
16.   Offces The DUR shall provide adequate office accommodations for the Project
Management team at the DUR Head Office in Kaneshie.
17.   Offiee Supplies, Equ*ment wad Veides Logisics for office operation and supplies
will be from a reimbursable revolving fund. Provision is to be made for a vehicle. The
consultant is expected to make provisions for the mainteance, replacement, replenishment
and any additional requirements. However, all equipment and vehicles to be purchased under
the project will be handed over to the DUR at the end of the project.
Project Duration
18. The services of the CMS will be required for three years.



107                        Annx41
Page S of 7
Inrduction
19.   Ihe Departmem of Urban Roads Is cuentdy Implemendng an aspect of the Urban
Transport Project (UTP) which aims among others at reducing congeson and to facilitae the
fee movement of goods and people to enbance the accelerated growth in the national
economy as enviged in the Economic. Recovery Program of the Government.
20.   Part of the IDA credit for the UTP is to be used to rehabilitate roads and operate
traffic management schemes witm the Ceral Business Districts (CBD) of Accra and
Takoradi.
21.   This terms of reference outlines the basis for the services of a municipal engineer who
will be responsible for advising the Director of the Deparment of Urban Roads on measures
required to minimize the effect of these rehabilitations and traffic management schemes on
other government and/or private organizations as well as individuals within the Central
Business District
Objechve
22.   The objective of this consultancy services is for the prospective consultant to act as an
adviser to the Department of Urban Roads with the overall responsibility for overseeing and
coordinati  as well as liaising with the Utility Services, the supervising engineer and
cntractor on how best relocations are to be arrged and executed.
Scope of Services
23.   The engineer wfli report to the Director of Department of Urban Roads and witl assist
and advise him on all aspects of DUR actives that itrfae with other corporate bodies like
the Metropolitan and District Authorities, Utility Service Organizations as well as any
Government or public organization that by the nature of their operation affect the Deparment
of Urban Roads.
24.   Specifically the duties of the municipal engineer will include but not be limited to:
(a)    draw up appropriate sub-contract documents. Review existing sub-contract
documents under the FIDIC IV and suggest changes that wiUl make it
appropriate for use by Utility Agencies and mindful of the statutes that
estalished them.
By this the engineer will be expected to come out after due consultation with
each of these organizations with sub-contract document acceptable to DUR
and the various agencies;
O)    helshe shall draw up procedure for reviewing claims by Utility Agencies;



108                        Am4I1
Page 6 of 7
(c)   review all estimates for relocation of services from the Utility Agencies and to
point out activities and relocations that amount to upgrading of services and to
suggest where appropriate cost sharing mechanism between Utility Services
and the Department of Urban Roads for same;
(d)    examine all proposals made by the Utility Services/Metropolitan and District
Assemblies to carry out relocations and advise the client in the most cost
effective method of executing works;
(e)   recommend to the Director of Department of Urban Roads necessary measures
to be adopted for the implementation of relocations;
(t)   review the work program of Utility Agencies and harmonize witi that of DUR
contactors to avoid and minimize delay to the contractor;
(g)    check and recommend invoices submitted by Utility Agencies to the
contractor;
(I)    he/she shall review all Utility Services drawings submitted and advise DUR
on timing of these relocation to avoid delays to the contractor. In other
words, he/she shall anticipate likely conditions that may cause delay and
suggest pre-emptive steps to avoid them;
-Q!    he/she shall assist the Department of Urban Roads to prepare utilities master
plan for Accra, detailing out all underground services on most of the major
road corridors in Accra. The underground services should include but not be
limited to:
(i)    water mains and valve chambers;
(ii)   P&T cable and junction chambers;
(iii)  electricity cable ano chambers as well as substations and transformers,
etc.; and
(iv)   sewerage systems in Accra.
It is expected that the consultant shall devote 50% of his/her time to this
aspect of responsibility;
0)    he/she shall organize regular consultation meetings with the appropriate heads
of these utility organizations to harmonize procedures and update the master
plan;
(k)    perform all other tasks as may be assigned by the client and those that in the
opinion of the consultant are of good and sound engineering practice and
essential to a harmonious relationship between the Department of Urban
Roads and the service agencies; and



109                        Anp  415
Page 7 of 7
(I)    offering onthe-job training to DUR staff to carry on such functions and to
recommend training programs.
Competence
25.   The Municipal Engineer shall possess a Bachelor's Degree or higher in Clvil
Engineering. He/she shall have worked in a municipal council or similar organization for a
minilmum of 15 years and must have served as municipal engineer or equivalent for at least 10
years. At least S of the 10 years must have been in a developing country.
Equipment and LIstics
26.   Offices Adequate office accommodation for the municipal engineer should be costed
in the financial proposals of the candidate.
27.   Logiic  Logistics for office operation and supplies will be costed under
reimbursable item. Provision should be made for vehicle as well as for maintenance,
replacement, replenishment and additional requirements. However, all equipment and
vehicles to be purchased under the agreement will be handed over to the client at the end of
the project.
Reportg
28.   The consultant shall submit an inception report on his assignment after one month of
engagement. Thereafter, he/she shall submit 10 copies of monthly and 15 copies quarterly
progress reports. The fourth quarterly report shall be expanded into an anmual report of the
reporting year.
Project Duration
29.   The services of the Municipal Engineer will be required for a minimum of 2 years.
This period may be exended as and when necessary.
30.   The consultant may be expected to submit monthly invoices for payment of services
rendered.



110
Page 1 of 3
RPUBlmC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TOR for Dewdopnest of Madenanc Maageint Sytm
Badkground
1.    lhe Govement of Ghana has embarked on an Urban Transport Project witi
assistace from the World Bak to improve urban tr. -'iortation in the five main cides of
Ghana by rehabilitating roads, improving traffic manai, -.ent and upgrading transport terna
facilities. lhe Department of Urban Roads Is responsiLle for implementing the road
components of the project.
2.    Under the program, a total of 18 km of roads in Accra and another 11 In in the
central business district of SekondiiTakoradi will be rehabilitated with asphalt concrete
surfacing, bringng the total of newly constructed asphalt roads in the five cities to
approximately 280 kilometers.
3.    DUR administers a total of 1,763 km of roads in the four urban centers of Accra,
Kumasi, SekondilTakoradi and Tema, and is expected to take over a fAther 100 km in
Tamale in the near future. A breakdown of these roads is shown in figure 1.2. in general
most of the network is in extreme distress due to lack of adequate mantenance.
4.    Road units have been established in Accra, Kumasi, Tema and Sekondi since DUR's
nception in 1988, leaving Tamale as the only city whose roads ae currey being manaind
by GHA. The Department has also established the following policy to guide its mintenan
act1vities:
(a)    provision of the desired level of service for both motorized and unmotorized
public by the preservation of the capital investment in the development of the
road inructure;
(b)   development of Maintenance Management System, including the evolvement
of performance standards and annual maiance program for the efficient
utilization of available resources; and
(c)   in cotlaboration with the Metropolitan/District Assemblies, to establih,
strengthen and technically direct road units in all major urban centes fo
maintenance of roads.
S.    Ihe road units are generly ill-equipped to undertake the entire spectrum of
works required of them, both in trms of personnd and equipment. The urban
transport project will attempt to address some of these shortcomings through various
interventions including the preparation of a Minenance Management System applicable to
the urba environent in Ghana.



lll~~~~~Ane a4-16
Page 2 of 3
Objectves of Assignment
6.    The study is aimed at assisting DUR to implement its maintenance policy tirough a
systemic implementation program. The study should provide:
(a)    a maintenance program designating specific goals and objectives in tems of
type and frequency of routine, recurrent and periodic maintenance;
(b)    a budget and allocation resources determined by needs in terms of manpower,
equipment and materials to accomplish the defined program of work for each
city consistent with funding capabilities;
(c)   communication of maintenance program objectives and authorization for
specific work in ways that supervisors and foremen will be eftectively guided
in their day-to-day work scheduling and performance; and
(d)   reporting of work accomplished with periodic summaries and evaluation of
actua performance as related to program objectives and standard so that
appropriate management action can be taken.
7.    It should cover all relevant information required for decision making on maintenance
of road work, levels of service and procedures for selection of maintenance action.
Scope and Ting of Service
8.    The consultants work shall be carried out in two phases.
9.    Phase one would involve review of all existing and proposed management and
accounting systems of the MRH and its agencies - ORA, DFR and DUR - to assess their
applicability to DUR's objectives and to ensure that the MMS that is eventually developed
will facilitate transfer and comparison of information in the roads sector. The review shall
include available road inventory forms and informaton. Particular reference should be made
to the existing MMS for GHA, the MIS for MRH and DURs accounting system. Existing
funding arrangements for maintenance works shall also be reviewed and recommendations
made for Improving these arrangements. The consultant shall thereafter design a suitable
Maintenance Management System for use by DUR.
10.   The design should include definition of all work related to maintenance of the urban
road network in each of the five cities and should reflect features peculiar to the urban roads
environment such as medians, curbs, lined drains, walkways, traffic signals, and streetlights.
11.   Phase one shall be completed within two months from start date.
12.   Phase two will follow after DUR has discussed and agreed the outcome of phase one
with the consultants, within two weeks of submission of the phase one report. his phase wil
involve the installation of the MMS designed under phase one. The operational systems for
both hea office and the cities shall be fully set up and local engineers tained to man and
operate them. lTe consultant shall operate a 12-month pilot maintece project using the
developed MMS with assistance from engineers from the various road units.



112
1Annex 41
Page 3 of 3
13.   The study shall be finalized within 24 months from the original start date.
Training
14.   The consultant shall be required to work with three counterpart staff appointed by the
client. The staff so appointed - two maintenance engineers and one computer progranmer -
will work closely with the consultant during the study so as to be able to interpret and amend
the final MMS developed by the consultant as and when required. The consultant shall direct
and supervise the work of the counterpart staff of achieve the desired objective.
Input to be Provided by CDent
15.   Tne client shall provide all available information to the extent possible that will aid in
project implemention, and assist the consultant to establish contact and dialogue with al
other governmental organizations.
16.   Roads and maintenance engineers in each city shall give direct assistance to the
project team as and when required.
17.   Ihe client shall promptly review all reports received from the consultant and collate
comments from other agencies for the consultants attetion.
Time Schedule and Reports
18.   Ihe consultant shall prepare and submit the following reports to the client within the
time periods and in qualities indicated:
REPORT                 COPIES       TIMING (monts from start date)
Ilcepion                       15              1
Phase I (iterim)               15              2
Draft Final                    15              15
Final                          50              24
19.   The inception report shall reflect the consultants assessment of available data and the
road network in the five cities, and an outline of work to be completed up to the interlm
report.
20.   The phase I (iterim) report shall include, inter alia, a revision of program for
completion of the study and preliminary recommendations for the development of the MMS
and instiutional reforms for DUR.
21.   The final report shall include a computer program for the MMS, which shall be
compatible with the MIS of MRH. It should also include manuals for the operation and
updating of the MMS for all levels of management.



113                        Annx 4-17
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Thaig Pwgnun
Introduilon
I     Training will be provided to the following agencies involved in the project:
Department of Uban Roads (DUR); Accra Metropolitan Roads Department (AMRD); District
Roads Units (DRUs); Urban Transport Unit MMTU); Motor Transport Unit; Building Road
Research Enstitute (BRRI); Mimistry of Local Government (MLG); and the Town and Country
Planning Deparment (rCP). The number of organizations involved reflects the diversity of
interests in urban transport issues.
Objectves
2.    The primary objective of the training program will be to develop skills in subjects
being directly addressed by the project, either related to implementation of the main
components, or in fostering policy development capabilities. The emphasis is on developing
practical, rather than purely academic skills. Advantage will be taken of the presence of
technical assistance specialists, consultants and contractors to deliver in-country, on-the-job
training in their relevant fields of expertise, and appropriate sections covering this have been,
or will be, included in their teras of reference and contracts.
3.    In developing the program the following order of priority has been adopted in
determining the types, and locations for, training: (1) in-house; (2) in-country; (3) regional;
and (4) overseas.
4.    The training requirements for the organizations are described in detail below
(organizations have been grouped by discipline) and outline programs are presented.
Agreement on programs for calendar year 1994 wil be a condition of project effectiveness.
Dertmt of Urban Roads, Accra MetropoUtan Roads Department, and District Roads
Units
5.    &akgrouwd DUR's origins and longer term objectives are described in Ann  3-1.
Its prlmary purpose is to admiister and implement, in consultation with the Metopolitan and
Municipal Authorities, through District Road Units, all aspects of urban road construction and
maintenance on behalf of the four main cities (Tamale will eventually be covered when
resources are made available), until such time as effective road departments can be established
in the cities themselves. This process is already well advanced in Accra, where the
Metopolitan Roads Department has taken over responsibility for road maintenance. When
fiul transfer has taken place to all of the cities, the DUR will become a smaller organization
providing specialist assistance and concentrating on long term planning, policy development,
research, standardization and manpower development. It is envisaged that some of DUR's



114                        Amu  &17
Page 2 of S
staff wHil move to the city road depatments, though the modalities for this have stll to be
worked out by Governmnt
6.    DUR has 28 senior (professional) and 522 junior (sub-professional) staff, which
includes the AMRD and DRUs of Kumasi, Sekondi/Takoradi and Tema. nhe junior staff
comprse offic; support staff and the direct labor forces of the four cities who carry out
routine manteace activities and a small proportion of periodic maintenance. Eighty percent
of all maintace is caried out by contractors.
Training Program
7.    An organization and management study (see An= &I2  will be carried out, which
amongst o ber thipgs will assess the training needs of DUR's professional staff and prepare a
training ph for implementation under this project. For the professional staff it is envisaged
that this will focus on project management and the new developments being introduced in the
project such as traffic management and control, maintenance management and non-motorized
ransport. Courses are available at local training institutions such as GIPA, MDPI, GHE
and through the Govenment Secretariat to enhance office support skills. Training for the
DUR and DRU operatives is likely to be most effectively carried out on-the-job as has been
successfully carried out under the TRP projects. An outline of the expected training program
is given in Attachment 1. Submission of a detailed program for 1994 will be a condition of
project effectiveness.
Urban Transport Unit
8.    The Urban Transport Unit (UTU) has been established, within the MOTC, from
scratch, in order to provide a focal point for the development and coordination of urban
transport policy. Initially it has been staffed by a unit head at Deputy Director level and two
economists. Over the project period the professional staff will be built up to six, including
the unit head.
9.    Tranpottion policy and planning expertise is required at the Metropolitan Assembly
level and so, over the medium tem, the UTU will spawn city unisimilar  tothe Disfdrt
Road Units that have been established by the Department of Urban Roads. Ihere is a need
therefore first of all to train and develop the expertise of transport planners and economists in
order to bufld up an effective cadre of expertise within the UTU.
10. Two staff from the UTU will therefore be sent overseas for transport
plan !ing-transport economics training. Only one person wil be sent fo training at a time and
at least three professional staff will remain in the unit at all times. On-the-job training will
also be provided by the Urban Transport and Road Safety speciLists being hired to provide
technical assistance. lTeir trms of reference and those of other, short term, consultants
providing inputs on parking, bus teminal management and regation of public transport
inlude speciflc training objectives. Provision has also been made for aahments to siMna
regiona and overse units and for staff to atend relevant conferences and semnars.
11. Details of the training program are given in Attachment 2.



115
Page a of 5
Motor Tranport Unit, Building Road Researeb Jntltute, Vehicl Examination and
ULceing Deparmni t, and Natonal Road Safety Co_nslon
12.   Provision has been made for short term atacme  to more developed institutions in
the region and overse. Costed dets are given in Attacbment 2.
Miry of Loa Government and Town and Country Plnning Deparbtent
13.   Traing wil be provided to TCP staff in suport of the new Development Contrl
and Information system being provided through the project. Ihe consultants designing the
system will be required to develop an in-house training course and to train two tainers to
present it.
14.   A staff member from MW  wilU be sent for overseas transport planning training to
strengthen MLG's capabilities in this field and to ensure that transport issues are taken fully
into account in overall planning policies decisions. Provision has also been made for short
term regional attachments to widen the experience of transport planning staff.
15.   Details of the training program are given in Attachment 2.



116                        AUg4172
Atachment 1
Page 4 of S
Otie TaJrl    igimw  for DCZ AAfiO and DRU
Unit Cost               Total Cost
Item                      ($000)    No.of Staff   ($S000)
A. Seior Saff
1. Overseas training in traffic engineering.  30           3         90
2. Short courses (up to 6 montbs) in pject   1S            S          75
and contra  management (regio  and
oveseas).
3. Short courses (up to 6 months) in road    1S            5          75
mantenance (regonal).
4. Attaments(up to 3 months) to regional     10            4         40
and overseas organizations to develop
management, road manence and non-
motorized transport skills.
S. Participation in relevat conferences and   4            5          20
6. Operation of maintnance management                            included in
ISysten                                                          consultant
contrc
Sub-total                                    300
B. Sub-Professional Staff
1. Coziputer skills.                                                  10
2. Upgrading support staff skldls.                     To be          10
determined.
3. Equipment operators courses at MTPU.                               20
4. TaIning equipment for MTPU.
10
S. Development of in-house training for road
maintenance crews.                                                    SO
Sub-ot                                       100



117                       AM    417
Attament 2
Page 5 of S
Tmrad  Programs for U V, MTO VE, NRRM, NRSC, TCP and MLG
Unit cost    No. of    Total Cost
Item                      (S.000)      Staff      ($S000)
A. Urban Transport Unit
1. Overseas training in Transport               30          2           60
Planning\Ecoomics.
2. Short-term atachments (up to 3 months)       10           6          60
to regional and overseas transport planning
units.
3. Participation In relevt conferences and       6           S          30
seminars.
4. On-the-job training fiom TA specialists                         included
and consultant.
TOTAL                                           lSO
B. VED, BRRD, NRSC and MT1J
1. Short-term aachms regionaly and              10          11         110
overseas.
C. Mnistry of al Government and Town
and Country Planning Departmnt
1. Training in Transport Planning.              30           1          30
2. Short-term attachments to transportation     10           3          30
plamnng departments regionally and
overseas.
3. Development and Implemenion of in-           10        sum            10
house training for Development Control ad
Implementaion System.
TOTAL                                            70



Preheat Launch Workshop 
Mid-term PAWiew
Proleat Cmlto
AppOInt supervision consultants
Invite fenders 
construction
Appoint supervi.Lon Consultant.
Invite ltendrs 
conatruotion
Appoint Supervision Consultants
invite ?Mendars
Cometruotioat
sokond.l Itrpkrnd  A
Appoint Supervision Consultant.
Isvito Vendors.
Construction                                                                                                                                                       O
,uoSn Xonrovment* An Fly* CA&A.
Appoint Superviuion Consultant.x
construction                                                                                                       M     I M        II      III
ioad.# *dation Ne.are. An 7A.. CIt$..
Id*ntity Locations 
pesga  - Dunt
.r..n*n&t fekflnal flehabIlIetLron
Appoint Desig  conuuiants 
DeeIgnIIII
Iwvitetndr4    Construct
Rumbsi 
tamale
0 
CD



INPLNU?AUTON SCEUDULS
1993          1994                1995                1996                1991                   1099
Appoint vesign consultants                             I
Desigjn
Invite fonder*
Consltruction
PIlot MM? Pethg
Appoint Superwialon Consultanto 
Invite tenders 
construction
Prepare fender Documents
Invite fendre s
Award Contract 
DIliver                                                                                 N
Road MalstMenao  Eculmient fr goD. ANRV A DROs
Ptorepr Tender Documents
Invite tenders 
Ava*d Contract 
ADevert                                                                                                                                                                 I-
.iaa   cont raceot  lne
Advertise
Awazd Contract
,.atnA.atlon and Mlanaaqinag StUdy £ PM)
Invite Proposals
Award Consultanoy A Implement
B*Rvdt praleat InGmgSalft
Advertips,e
Award Contract 4, Implement
rr.leo  lqanaasemna SnAR"%V hAlt
Award Contract £ Implement
Advertise
Award Contract & Implement
Amln  x4gnawnga jtafatoaange t£flAdinflt Oyatr..
Invite Proposals
Award Contract S Implement
"00



120
REPUBLiC OF GHANA                           Annex4-19
URBANTRANSPORT PROJECT                          Page 1 ot6
COST SUMMARY
TOTAL       TOTAL
COMPONENTS                                 BASE COSTS  INC. CONT.
1. DUR ADMINIS TERED COMPONEfNTS
A. ROAD REHAIUtATiON
()   Acora CBD Roads                                      25.34       3086
(II)  Sekond/Takoradi Roads                               11100       13.27
Subtotal                                  36.34       44.13
B. TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS
(q   Trafflic Eng Improvement (5 Cities)                   2.00        2.52
(ii)  Tffi Management Improvements Accra COD               2.80        338
(Ill)  Tramic Management Improvements SIT CBD              1.30        1.6
(iv)  Accident Reductlon Measures (5 Cities)               1.80        2.31
Subtotal                                   7.90        9.77
C. TRANSPORT TERMINAL REHABIUTAtION
(I)   Kumasi                                               1.50        1.75
(ii)  Accra & Tema                                         4.00        4.75
(Hl  Tamale                                                0.25        0.30
(iv)  SekondifTakoradi                                     0.81        0.97
Subtotal                                   6.56        7.77
D. IMPROVED ACCESS TO LOW-INCOME AREAS & NM  PATHS
(I)   Acuess Improvements                                  7.54        9.30
(i   Pilot NMV Pafts                                       3.00        3.40
Subtotal                                  10.54       12.70
E. EQUIPMENT FOR INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(i)  Road Maintenance Equipment - OUR, AMRU & DRUs         2.00        2.33
(U)  Office Equipment & Vehicles                           0.20        0.23
(iH  Estabilsh Parking Units in MMAs                       0.10        0]
Subtotal                                   2.30        2.68
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
(I)   Policy Support
Organization and Management Study                     0.20       0.21
(ii) Project Preparation & Implementation Support
(a) Detailed Design - Access Improvements             0.16       0.17
(b) Detaibd Design - Terminal RehabiliatIon           0.20       0.21
(c) Supervision - Terminal Rehabilton                 0.30       0.33
(d) Supervision - Accra CBD Roads                     1.50       1.68
(e) Supervision - Sekondt/Takoradi Roads              0.8S       0.68
(f  Supervision - Junction Improvements               0.25       0.27
(g) Supervision - Acoess Improvements                 0.38       0.44
(h) Environmental Assessment & MonKoring              0.04       0.04
()  Studies for Future ProJects                       0.60       0.68
0)  IntWrated Bike Path Newrk Study for Accra         0.25       0.27
(k) Contract Management & Muniipal Eng Specialist     0.80       0.92
(I)  Project Management Suppot (1995-97)              0.30       0.33
(m) Maintenance Management System                     0.30       0.33
(n) Office Extension & Housing                        0.60       0.67
Subtotal                                   6.31        7.02
(i)  Institutional Development
(a) Training Professionai Staff, DUR, AMRD, DRU       0.30       0.34
(b) Training Operatves, DUR, AMRU, DRU                0.10       0.11
Subtotal                                   0.40        0.4S
IQIALDUR                                                  75a



121
REPUBUC OF GHANA                           Annex 4-19
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                        Page 2 d6
COST SUMMARY
TOTAL      TOTAL
COMPONENTS                                BASE COSTS  INC. CONT.
II. MOTC ADMINISTERED COMPONENWS
A. EQUIPMENT FOR INSTITMTiONAL STRENGTHENING
(i)  VELD Tesing Equipment                                0.17       0.20
(Q)  BRRI Data Processing Equipment                       0.05       0.06
(ii)  NRSC Road Saty Program Equipment                    0.06       0.07
(iv)  MTU Road Safety Equipment                           0.30       0.35
(v)   OMce Equipment & Vehicles, TCP                      0.27       0.31
(vi)  Office Equipment & Vehicles, UTU                    0.09       0.10
Subtotal                                  0.94        1.09
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
(i)  Polky Support
(a) Transpoft Planning Advisor, UTU                  0.45       0.47
(b) Short term Specialists, UTU                      0.25       0.27
(c) Road Safty Advisor, UTU                          0.0        0.32
(d) Incremental Oper. Costs for UTU                  0.05       0.06
Subtotal                                  1.05        1.12
(il)  Project Prepaaion & Implementation Support
(a) Design & Impi Development Control System, TCP    0.04       0.04
(b) Building Works In Tamale for VELD                0.08       0.08
(c) Management Consultancy for MMA Parldng Units     0.10       0.11
Subtotal                                  0.22        0.23
(HiQ Insfitulional Development
(a) Training for UTU                                 0.15       0.17
(b) Training for VELD                                0.03       0.03
(c) Training for BRRI                                0.02       0.02
(d) Training for NRSC                                0.02       0.02
(e) Training for MTU                                 0.05       0.06
(f  Training for TCP                                 0.05       0.06
(g) Training for MLG                                 0.02       0.02
SubtoXtl                                  0.34        0.39
TOTAL BASEUNE COSTS                                73.09      87.56
Physical Contingencies                               6.46
Price Contingencies                                  8.01
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                87.5



REPUBLIC OP CHAIR
138M TR3NSPOBT PRwJBcr
Table 1. URBA  ROA  REMAILITATIOW
Detalied Cost Table
Totals including contingencies             Oreak4own of Totals Incl.Cont.
aSen Coats In 08                                           U8$                                        138
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total      1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total     P.RXCb   LoalI  Taxes   TotAl
I. 11v3811w COSTS
*         ~~A. ROun RBMILITTIOM
Accra (3D Road.          1.26   S.07   7.60  11.42   0.00   0.00  25. 35      1.41   5. 91   9.20  14.35   0.00   0.00  30.07     21.60    8.03    1.23   30.87
Sekondi/TaMoadi load    0.55   2.20   6.05S  2.20   0.00   0.00  11.00        0.62   2.56   7.32   2.76   0.00   0.00  13.27       9.28    3.4     0.S3  13.27
--- - - - -     - - - - - -    - - - - - -   - - -  - - -     - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - -     - - -     - - -   - - -   - - -
Sub-Total                 1.61   7.37  13.65  13.62   0.00   0.00  36.35       2.03   6.47  16.5   17.11   0.00   0.0') 44.13      30.09   11.48    1.77  44.13
Total IiwSSrxTtCST               1.61   7.27  13.65  13.62   0.00   0.00  36.35       2.03   8.47  16.52  17.11   0.00   0.00  44.13      30.69   11.48    1.77   44.1)
Total                         1.61   7.27  13.6   13.62   0.00   0.00  36.35       2.03   8.47  16.52  17.11   0.00  a.oo  44.1)       30.89   11.40    1.77  44.13
... -   ................a               .   ........................  ....S.............a..              .      S................a...........                 .. ....
-Values scaled by 1000000.0  4/5/1993  1641
Table 2. TRAFIC NANAOBNMEW   P ROiVuisrr 
Detailed Cost Table
Totals including Coxtingencies          Breakdown of Totals Imcl.ont.
Bkaae Coats In us8$                                 US$                                      38
a*S**S..aS.afl0.a.aS..fl...~.............    ........a ....
1993  194  19951996  197  1990Total  199         199419519   1997  1998 Total     F.Oscb  Loocal   Taxe.  Total
I. INVTUSITI cam
A. TSAFVZC "Wf INPROVBKBU
Traffic Bug. hpi. (S cit) 0.00  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  2.00       0.00  0.47  0.40 0.50  0.52  0.54  2.52        1.76    0.63    0.13    2.52
Traffic Iumpow Accra cBD   0.00  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.00  0.00  2.79      0.00  1.06  1.13  1.17  0.00  0.00  3.33       2.36    0.68    0.14    3.30
Traffic Mgt lomp Sek/Tak    0.00  0.52  0.52  0.26  0.00  0.00  1.30     0.00  0.61  0.63  0.3)  0.00  0.00  1.S6       1.09    0.41    0.06    1.56
Accident Reduction S cit   0.00  0.00  0.45  0.4   0.45  0.45  1.60      0.00  0.00  0.54  0.S7  0.59  0.61  2.31       1.61    0.60    0.09    2.31
SW),-Total                  0.00  1.05  2.30  2.04  0.65  0.85  7.09      0.00  2.16  2.76  2.56  1.11  1.15  9.76       6.83    2.51    0.42    9.76
Total 13V30INU COSTS               0.00  1.65  2.30  2.04  0.65  0.85  7.89      0.00  2.16  2.78  2.56  1.11  1.15  9.76       6.83    2.51    0.42    9.76
Total~~~~~~~ .......    ..S..   ... ............... ..... ..                                                      ...... .  .....   ...  ...
7btat  ~  ~      ~      0.0   .85  2.30  2.04  0.65  0.85  7.89       0.00  2.16  2.78  2.56  1.11  1.15  9.76       6.83    2.51    0.42    9.76
aaaa.*aa ....a.aaaan ..................  .............................. .............00......
*  -Values acaled by 1000000.0  4/5/1993  16m42
:4
0 s



USPIDLIC OF GRIAM
Table 3. tfMSOlUIIA UABITIJTATOW
Daetaled cost Table
Total. Including Contingencies          kreakdo.s of Totals Keel .Cont.
sao" Costs in US$                                   Us$t                                     Wsl
e...ee.eeen.    ..... .  S . ee.e.. ..   s.e...... S     e.ss........sfe..s                             waft.e  wse ..se. Oaa.-..
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  199S Total     1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Total    P. Sxch   Lcal  Taxes  Total
I.   DWSS311             ... ... .. ... .. ..... ....                 ...... ........ ....... ..                   ------- -- ----- ---
Kumasi                    0.00  1.50  0.00  0.00  0.00  0. 00  1. so    0.00  1.7S  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  1. 75      1.22    0.44    0.09    1.75
Accra. 4TaM               0.00  2.00  2.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  4.00      0.00  2.33  3.42  0.00  0.00  0.00  4.7S       3.33    1.19    0.24    4.75
Tamale                    0.00  0.13  0.1)  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.25      0.00  0.15  0.1S 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.30        0.21    0.07    0.01    0.30
Sakondi/Takwradi          0.00  0.20  0.61  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.81      0.00  0.24  0.73  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.91       0.68    0.24    0.05    0.97
Sub-Total                  0.08  3.83  2.73  0.00  0.00  0.00  6.S6      0.00  4.46  3.31  0.00  0.00  0.00  7.77       S.44    1.94    0.39    7.77
Total 0naunCSS.00  3.03  2.73  0.00  0.00  0.00  4.66                         0.00  4.46  3.31  0.00  0.00  0.00  7.77        5.44    1.94    0.39    7.77
.nSa            .         SS~~~~~~Oa..eSSC".. .0-   ..m.e.0..   o..   ..       -.O" 0....a ...           . . a-..enn.N...                       ..
-Values scaled by 1000000.0 4/6/1993 16:42
Table 4. TRANSPORTATION I14PROVSIMIT  MR LOW tNCOME 3AR532
Detailed Cost Table
Totals including Contingencies             Sreakd@ai of Totals Incl.Cont.
Base costs in £15                                          us$                                          on
1993   194   1995   1996   1997   1990  Total       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1990  Total     F.Bxcb   Local  Taxes  Total
I * INVBSSI4ET COSTS
A. pilot *WH  Path.              2.25   0.TS   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.00       2.52   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.40       2.39   0.05    0.17    3.40
B. Mccess Impove. Mwoerty)       0.00   1.08  1.80  1.80  1.88   0,00   7.64          0.00   2.20   2.28   2.37   2.46   0.00   9.30        6.51    2.33    0.47    9.30
Total INVUSISTK   COSTS             2.25   2.63   1.80  *1069  1.88   0.00  10.S4        2.52   3.07   2.26   3.37   2.46   0.00  12.70        8.09    3.10    0.64   12.10
en;... s...eem.;    .. cue0 .. ens  en..so.. e....    en.4a ... CCS. Onee.. nS... ewas .  eene C..       see.... n.e.... en..... see...
Total                            2.25   2.63   1.88   1.88   1.88   0.00  10.5        2.52   3.07   2.20   2.37   2.46   0.00  12.70        8.89    3.18    0.64  13.70
-Values scaled by 1000000.0 4/5/1993 16:42



RB9WUIC Of Ga
WU8M UAPT PROECM
Table S. OMUIPNT FOR tfl TtfrI0UA STSUIOThIIN
Detailed Cost Table
Totals Includiag Contingencies          Breakdown of Totals Inel.Cont.
BWe Cots in Us                                       UBS                                     USS
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Total      1993  1994  199S 1996  1997  1998 Total      F.2ch  local  Taxes  Total
t. ItWSI'NW COSTS
_ ___ ________ _
&. MD MUllt SuIP - OW
MM & 0IW 14 cities)        0.00  2.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.00      0.00  2.33  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.33        1.63    0.50    0.12    2.)3
Office equip & Vehicles    0.00  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.20      0.00  0.23  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.23        0.16    0.06    0.01    0.23
Satabliab Parking in MM  0.00  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.10        0.00  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.12        0.00    0.03    0.01    0.12
__,_ ___..____ __   .....    ...  . ... _; -  _ -  .. .   .....    ....._ .. I-   -----    -----    -----  --  - _   .-   _________-_,__-_  .....   ... ..
Sub-Total                   0.00  2.30  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.30      0.00  2.60 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  2.60         1.8S    0.67    0.1)    2.68
S. REOD muXm 8QiP - MOIC
V1W Tenting Equipment      0.00  0.17  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.17      0.00  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.20        0.14    0.05    0.01    0.20
BSRl Data Proc. Equipment  0.00  0.OS  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.05      0.00  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.06        0.04    0.01    0.00    0.06
MRSC Agliovioual Equip.   0.00  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.06       0.00 O0.07  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.07        0.05    0.02    0.00    0.07
ID4 Road Safety Epipmt  0.00  0.30  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.30         0.00  0.35  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.35        0.24    0.09    0.02    0.36
equipment & Veb. TCP       0.00  0.27  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.27      0.00  0.31  0.00  1.00  0.00  0.00  0.31        0.22    0.08    0.02    0.31
quipment & Veb. tfU        0.04  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.09      0.OS  O.OS  0.00  4.00  0.00  0.00  0.10        0.07    0.03    0.01    0.10
..--    -- -   --_   .... _  -     -- -   -- -   -- -  -- -   -- -   -- -   -- -   -- -   -- -   -- -  -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   _---,---- _....... .._. .   .__.  .
Sub-Total                   0.04  0.89  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.94      0.05  1.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  1.09        0.77    0.27    0.05    1.09
........... - -.-_ -_ ----- ----- ----- -----I ----- -----  ..   .....  ---- ----- -----    ------- ------- -- ---- ------- 4W
Total IHVEST1MBt COSTS              0.04  3.19  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.24      O.OS  3.72  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.77       2.64    0.94    0.19    3.77
.... ..W.. .... ..... .... a ..... ..... .... ..... . w ... ....                          . ...... ..... .....   ....... ........c*. .. P .....c,
Total                            0.04  3.19  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.24      o.os  3.72  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  3.77       2.64    0.94    0.19    3.77
- Values saled by 1000000.0  4/S/1993  16t42
IA 
0,
0  0
to



REPMZC OF GUAM
LIBAN TRANSEM mmwr
----- -----------------
Table 6. TSMUML AssisTum a TRAMIN
Detailed Cost Table
Totals includiag Contirogencies              Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Base Costs La US$                                         US$                                           LIO
.......... 0.. . ...........................   ...a .......... 0...........................   .. . ...... . .............. . . 00.
1993  1994  19SS  1996  1997  1999 Total          IM         1994  199S  1996  1997  1998 Total      F.Exch    toocal    Tax"        Total
------------------------------------------   ..................................... ----    --------------------------------
1. tuvesTmw COS"
----------------
A. MLICY SUPPM - NM
Transp. Plas. Adv. KM         0.22  0.22  0.00  0.06  0.00  4.00  0-4S           0.23  0.24  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.47             0.30    0.16    0.00    0.47
8-t Specialists mm            0.06  O."   O."   0.06  0.00  0.00  0.2S           0.06  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.00  4.00  0.27             0.18    0.09    0.00    0.27
Road Safety Advisor UTO    0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.00  0.00  0.30              0.08  0.08  0.08  0.09  0.04  0.00  0.32             0.21    0.11    0.00    0.32
locre Oper Costs for tMJ   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  O.OS              0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.06             0.04    0.02    0.00    0.06
----- ----- ----- -----    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Sub-Tataa                      O      0. 7    IS  0. is  0.01  0.06  1.06         0.38  0.39  0.16  0.17  0.01  0.00  1.12             0.73    0.39    0.00    1.12
S. POLICY SWPW - DUR
O&H study                     0.00  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.20           0.00  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.21             0.14    0.07    4.00    0.21
C. PRW PRBP & THPL. am
bet. Design IACca"l           0.00  0.26  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.16           0.00  0.17  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.17             0.11    O."       0.00    0.17
Dot. Design Mrainall          0.00  0.20  8.00  0.00  0.00  0.60  0.20           0.00  0.21  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.21             0.14    0.07    4.00    0.21
Spa Tondnal (DU10             0.00  0.06  0.12  0.12  0.00  0.00  0.30           0.00  O."   0.13  0.14  0.06  0.00  0.33             0.22    0.12    0.00    0.33
Spa heara                     0.00  0.30  0.38  0.38  0.29  0.00  I.SO           0.00  0.40  0.41  0.43  0.44  0.00  1.40             1.09    0.69    0.00    1.68
Spn SekoWl/Takoradl           0.00  0.2S  0.2S  0.13  0.00  0.00  0.63           0.00  0.26  0.28  0.14  0.08  0.00  0.69             0.44    0.24    0.00    0.68
fto Junction Improvement   0.00  0.13  0.13  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.2S              0.00  0.11  0.14  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.27             0.10    0.69    0.00    0.27
km hc"ss laprovemmts    0.00  0.00  0.13  0.13  0.13  0.00  0.39                 4.00  0.00  0.14  O.Is  O.IS  0.00  0.44             0.26    0.IS    0.08    0.44
Owirm  Ao"oeawkat & Mm    0.00  4.02  0.02  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04               0.00  0.02  0.02  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04             0.03    0.02    0.00    0.04
Sto Los ftt. ftoj (Dun)    8.00  0.00  0.24  0.36  4.60  0.00  0.60              0.00  0.00  0.26  0.41  0.00  0.00  0.6.            0.44    0.24    0.00
Int bike Path Study Aocrik 0.00  0.13  0.11  0.00  0.00  0.00  O.2S              0.00  0.13  0.14  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.27             0.28    0.09    0.00    0.27
contract Mgt $pec. (DUR)   0.00  0.16  0. is  0.16  0.26  0.16  0.80             0.00  0.17  0.18  0. IS  0.19  0.20  0.92            0.00    0.92    0.04    0.92
ftoj. Mgt Support 1996-97  0.00  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.00  0.00  0.30              0.00  0.11  0.11  0.11  0.00  0.00  0.33             0.00    0.33    0.00    0.33
pAint "gt system (UM)         0.00  4.05  0.20  O.OS, 0.00  0.00  0.30           0.00  O.OS  0.22  0.06  4.40  0.00  0.13             6.21    0.12    0.00    0.31
OffAce ext. swip. (OM)   0.00  0.00  0.4s  0.IS  0.00  0.40  0.60                0.80  0.00  0.60  0.17  0.00  0.00  0.67             8.43    0.23    0.00    0.67
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Siib-Ta"t                      0.40  1.62  2.29  I.S1  0.66  0.16  6.31           0.00  1.72  2.S2  1.79  0.78  0.20  7.02             3.7S    3.27    0.00    7.02
0. PROJWr SUPPORT - 101C
Des& Upl Dow Omtrol Byft  0.00  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04               0.00  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.04             0.03    0.01    0.00    0.04
Duildt"  Macke tot VRW        6.00  0.08  4.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.40           0.00  alas  0.04  4.04  0.04  0.00  0.06             0.06    0.4's    0.04    0.00
Mgt Com . mm  ftrk volts   0.00  0.05  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.10              0.00  O.OS  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.11             0.07    0.04    0.00    0.11
----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Sub-Total                      4.00  0.17  *.OS  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.22           0.00  0.18  0.06  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.11             olis    0.44    0.40    4.24
B. immimonu DW - am
Trg. Om, AM. m                0.00  0.06  0.06  0.06  0 06  0.06  0.30           0.00  0.06  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.34             0.22    0.12    0.00    0.34
TraWng Operattvas             0.00  0.02  0.02  0.02  0:02  0.02  0.10           0.00  0.42  0.02  0.02  0.62  0.02  0.11             4.07    C."       4.00    0.11
----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Sub-Total                      0.00  0.08  0.06  0.09  0.08  0.06  0.40           0.00  0.08  0.09  0.0%  0.09  0.10  0.46             0.30    0.16    0.00    4.46
P. twrtzntmL mv - NM
Trataing for UM               0.00  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03  O.IS           0.00  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.04  0.04  0.17             0.11    O."       0.00    0.17
Training for VKD              0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.03           0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.03             0.02    0.01    0.00    0.03            -0
TrainLog BBRI                 0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.03           0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.81  0.01  0.03             0.02    0.01    0.40    0.41            A
Training for MM               4.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01           0.00  4.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  D."   0.01             0.01    0.00    0.00    0.01            m
TraLaing KM                   0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.05           0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.06             0.04    0.02    0.00    0.46            01
Traiaing for ICP              0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01;          0.00  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  4.01  0.06             0.04    0.02    4.00    0.06
Training NW                   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02           0.00  4.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.02             0.01    0.01    0.08    6.02            0  1
..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Sub-Total                      6.00  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.34           0.00  0.07  0.07  0.08  0.08  0.08  0.39             0.2s    0.14    0.60    0.39
.;.;. -i; .;.;; .;.;; -;.;- --.;; -----    ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----    ------- ------- ------- -------
Total I*VBSTWW    COM                     7  2.                       2  0.    O.S2       0.38  2.67  2.90  2.13  0.97  0.38  9.43             6.12    4.11    4.00    9.43
7.;; T..                                                                                                    .    .......   .....
Total                               0.             .64          .0       I   .62       O.;;                       0.97  O.$9  9.41          S.32    4.11    4.00    9.43
.............. a ................................................................................................................................. ..........



126                              Annex 4z20
Pag I of 2
IPUBUIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Pzo_ement Method
No. of                                       Tdtal
Prqed  lmen                      Contct    ICB        LCB    Other   NBF        Cost
L CvlWod
a. Accra CBD Roads                                     2    30.87                               30.87
(26.23)                            (26.23)
b. SRodadiRa                                            1    13.27                              13.27
(11.28)                           (11.28)
c. Ttaffic Enginering Imp&t                            1      2.52                               2.52
(2.18)                             (2.18)
d. Accident Reduction Mues                             3               2.31                      2.31
(2.00)                    (2.00)
. Trafficm Manemet   . (SeWTak                          1     1.56                               1.56
(1.35)                             (1.35)
f. Traffic Mlaagemet Imp. (Acx CBD)                    1      3.38                               3.38
(2.92)                             (2.92)
S. T-ranport Termina Reabiltation
(I) Acrn & Tma                                      4               4.75                      4.75
(4.1i)                    (4.11)
(h)  uassEi                                          1              1.7S                      1.75
(iii) SekondilTekorndi                               1              0.97                      0.97
(0.84)                    (0.84)
(Iv) TamaBl                                          1              0.30                      0.30
(0.26)                   (0.26)
h. Pilot NMV Padhs                                     3               3.40                      3.40
(2.94)                    (2.94)
i. Accexs Roade to Low-Income Ams                      7               9.30                      9.30
(7.91)                    (7.91)
j. Bilding Wodks for VELD (Tmale)                       1              0.08                      0.08
(0.08)                    (0.08)
k Bulding Works for DUR                                2.              0.67                      067
(0.67)                    (0.67)
SUB-TOTrAL                         51.60    23.53                     75.13
(43.96)  (20.32)                   (64.28)
NoW AMON in pautus I           IDA poin



127                             Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
ProCureamt Met
No. of                                      Totl
Project lement                  Contract   ICa      LCB    Other   NSF        com
B. Goods
a. VELD, Testing Equipmet                             1     0.20                              0.20
(0.17)                           (0.19)
b. BE., Date Processig Equipme                        1                     0.06              0.06
(0.05)           (0.06)
c. NRSC. Audovisa Equipment                           1                     0.07              0.07
(0.06)           (0.06)
d. MTU, Road Sdaey Equpmt                             2              0.24    0.11             0.35
(0.21)  (0.09)           (0.29)
e. DUR. AMRU, DRUts Road Mai nance Equpmeont          4     1.97            0.3S              2.32
(4 cities)                                                 (1.71)          (0.30)            (2.09)
f. Computers and Office Equipmnt    UTU and TCP       2                      0.20             0.20
(0.17)           (0.17)
S. Vehicles for UTU aud TCP                           2              0.21                     0.21
(0.18)                   (0.19)
h. ComputS and Office Equpmet for DUR                 2                     0.10              0.10
(0.09)           (0.10)
i. Vehicles for DUR                                   1              0.12                     0.12
(0.10)                   (0.10)
J. Parking Units in MMAs                              2                      0.12             0.12
(0.10)           (0.10)
SUE-TOTAL                          2.17     0.S7    1.01             3.75
(1.88)   (0.49)  (0.88)           (3.25)
mL TecduncAl         (Comultandes & TraJnkg)
(100% IDA fiancod)
a. Policy Support and Studies for UTU                                        1.12             1.12
(1.12)           (1.12)
b. Policy Support fr MMAs                                                    0.11             0.11
(0.11)           (0.11)
c. Design and Supervision                                                    3.82             3.82
(3.82)           (3.82)
d. Studies fhr DUR                                                           1.20             1.20
(1.20)           (1.20)
e. I.mplementst_o Support for DUR                                            1.S8             1.58
(1.S8)           (1.58)
f. Trinlng                                                                  0.85              0.85
(0.85)           (0.85)
SUB-TOTAL                                           8.68              8.68
(8.68)           (8.68)
Note:Aonts in pwani indicate IDA porto



128                                Annex 4-21
Page 1 of 3
REPUBUC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
STANDARD
DISBURSE. PROFILE
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT CUMUL DISBURSEMENT              GHANA
IBRD/IDA    AT END QUARTER         AT END QUARTER       TRANSPORTATION
FY & QTR     %           US$mill    %          US$mill          %
FY94
2       1.4%         1.08    1.4%          1.08          0
3       1.4%         1.08    2.8%          2.16
4       1.4%         1.08    4.3%          3.24          3
FY9S
1       1.4%         1.08    5.7%          4.32
2       7.0%         5.386   12.7%         9.68         14
9       7.0%         5.36    19.7%        15.04
4       7.0%         5.36    26.8%        20.40         26
FY96
1       7.0%         5.38    33.8%        25.76
2       7.9%         6.04    41.7%        31.80         38
3       7.9%         6.04    49.7%        37.84
4       7.9%         6.04    57.6%        43.68         46
FY97
1       7.9%         6.04    65.5%        49.92
2       6.8%         5.22    72.4%        55.14         62
3       6.8%         5.22   79.2%         60.86
4       6.8%         5.22    86.1%        65.58          70
FY98
1       6.8%         5.22    92.9%        70.80
2       1.3%         1.01    94.2%        71.81         78
3       1.3%         1.01    95.6%        72.83
4        1.3%        1.01    96.9%        73.84         66
FY99
1       1.3%         1.01    98.2%        74.85
2       0.9%         0.68    99.1%        75.53          90
3       0.o%         0.68   100.0%        76.21
4                                                        94
FY2000
1
2                                                       96
3
4                                                        98
FY2001
2_                                                      100
NOTE: IntWal disbursement of US$3.24 million Includes
deposts d US$1.5 and US$0.3 million to Special Accounts.



129
Amx 4-21
R£PUlUCOfGHA                           P    2at 3,.
URBANTRANSPORTPROJECT
DISSUREIMENT SCHEDULE
(Us$ Mr,"w~
A.   GOVERMTOFGHA - MOTC
ANNUAL OISGRU5MtINT  CUMUL. D011URSEMENT
CALENDAR    AT END QUARE              AT END QUARTER
YEAR         %          USimsI      %            US$"m
1063    4         1.69%      0.006       1.6%        0.005
1904     1        1.6%       0.005       3.2%        0.011
2       1.6%       0.006       4.8%         0.016
3       1.6%        0.006      0.4%         0.022
4       6.8%       0.023       13.2%        0.04S
1996
t       6.8%       0.023      20.0%         0.009
2       6.S        0.023       26.6%        0.002
3       6.%        0.023       333.%        0.115
4        .0%       002         41.6%        0.143
1       8.0%       o.02       49.6%         0.170
2         0%       0.027       57.06%       0.197
9       8.0%        Q0.0       65.5%        0.225
4       7.1%        0.024      72.7%        0.249
1       7.1%       0.024      79.86%        0.273
2       7.1%       0.024       86.9%        0298
3       7.1%        0.024      94.0%        0.322
4       1.1%        0.004      85.2%        0.326
1       1.1%       0.004       96.3%        0.380
2       1.1%       0.004       97.5%        0.334
9       1.1%       0.004       98%          0.338
4       0.7%        0.002      89.3%        Q340
1969
I       0.7%       0O2        100.0E%       0.343
GONENROf GHANA - OUR
ANNUAL DISS     BSJENT  CUMJL 0188URSEUENT
CALENDAR   AT END QUARrER             AT END QUARTER
YEAR         %          Ussi        %            usTm
tS9B     4        1.8%       0.16O       1.5%        0.160
1094     1        1.6%       0.160       2. S%       Q320
2       1.5%        0.160       4.496       0.480
9       1.%         0.100       6.%         0.640
4       699         0.707      12.7%        1.79
1995
1       6.8%       0.750       19.5%        2153
2       6%         0.757       2&64%        2.910
8       as6%        o.757      3.6          3.667
4       Sas6        0.83       41.3%        4.549
1       6.0S       0A8        49.3%        5.432
2       6.0%        08.3       573%         6.315
s       6.0%        Om6$       66.3%        7.197
4       72%         am791      ?2.%         7J811
1       7.29       0.791       79.7%        67W79
2       ?2%         0.79t      88.8%         .69
3       72%         0.791      94.0%       1086
4       1.1%        0.126      05M2%       10.406
1       1.16       0.126       96.3%       10.612
2       1.%         Q123       97.4%       10.738
9 1.1%              012        986%        1C64
4       0.7%        0.078      99.3%       10M42
1899
1       03%        0.078      100.0        11.019



130                                   Annex 4-21
Page 3 of 3
GHANA URBAN TRANSPORT
DISBURSEMENT CHART
120(% of Credit)
10 0
60 
40-
20 
0
0        s       10       is       20       25       30       35
Quarters from Cedit Apprla
-  Gh     Sector POftl    ' SAR Betimates
Ppmr d Celit App,oae Date JX*a 1993
(A,mue, a 5 113-tr pujee)



131
Pago Itf 2
RIWUIIC OF GHANA
UlAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SWMrWn Plan
Supevision wil be iesiv  for the first 15 montths with 10 staff weeks being llocated fbr the ptoject
wach workshop, which is tentvely scheduled for October 1993. Three supervision missions totalling 14
staff weeks ae planed for 1994 with on avea   of 8 weeks per year being allocated over two missions in
subsequet years with the exception of 1996 when the mid-trm review is planned.
Approximate
Date of Input
(moly)                Acdvity                  Expected Skill Required        Staff Weeks
9193       Project Lunmch Workhop       Task Manager (Engineer)                  10
Transport Specialist
Training Specialist
Procurement Speciist
Disbument Specialist
2194       Supevision Mi1ssion          Task Manager (Enginee)                   4
Financial Analyst
6/94       Supervision Mision           Task Manager (Engeer)                    4
Transport Specialist
11/94      Supervision Mission          Task Manager (Engineer)                   6
Transport Speciist
Financial Anadyst
Training Speaist
Environmetd Specialist
S/95       Supevision Mision            Task Manager (Eineer)                    4
Financial alyst
11195      Supervision   sion           Task Mana  (Engineer)                     S
Transport Specialist
Training Specialist
4/96       Supervision Mission          Task Manar (gine)                        10
Mid-term Review              Transport Specialist
Financial Analyst
Training Speciist
Environmental Speciaist
Procuremet Specialist
Diburement Specialist



132                          ,A
Page 2 of 2
Approximae
Date of Iput
(n101yr)              Actvity                  Expected Skili Required        Staff Weeks
11/96      Superion Mission              Task Manager (Engineer)                  4
Tranpo  Specialist
5/97       Supervision Mssn             Task Maager (ngine)                      4
Finac  Analyst
11/97      Supervision Mission           Task Manger (ngineer)                    4
Transport Speciaist
5/98       Suprvisio  Mison             Task Mager (Eagineer)                    4
Financial Analyst
12/98      Supevision Mission            Task Mnager (Engineer)                   3
(PCR)                        Financl Analyst



133                                     Annex 4-23
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Inicaors of Projed hIpad
?ARGE1
I       W   YEAR
ROTOIJECTvS                      INDICATORS              BAS2                     1  3           1 4
1. bmv,e efficiey ed   Redce pak houw 07.  to                               After vr b oed
pmdodtiiotwberoe            08.30jouney tie an ey
by reuiw tavel dtme          ortal roues (minue)
O) Acor Nkrumah Ave -         1S.7
Nkrumth Cicle to High Sre
(I) Ars, G hpbic              20.4
Roed/berim Road - Obabi
Lamprey Circl to 28th
Febuar Road
(i) SekondUrskoradi,          163
Lbeaion Road - Cape Coast
Road to lectriity Road
2. Improve    wnd amlnlenace   (a) F.:nds expended per yeu           9.9    11.1      12.3   12.8   133
(USS equival)
O) Leto  of rban rad
receivingpeodic maintenane
peryenr
o) Rel bltumen srfaces       51        55      58        62     6S    69
Q1D  umeneur*bft(km)         37        40      42        45     4?    50
(i Regroveft  k)              19       20      22        23     24    26
Gv)D Dch mi_wanc ekcn)       43        46      49        52     55     5s
(v) Rad marin  zn           320       342     365      3S7    410   430



134                                   A-x 
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT OUJECTV                  INDICATORS             BASM                   TARGM
3. Prmate  wider use of    Bicycl uN (06.00 to 18.00)               To be dtermlnd one year ifter work
bicycle                   aon wedys) on faem                                    completed.
pro4s withb NYdYp 
(I) Madina - Lgan - CID
0D Tehis L- adi - CBD
0li Nima to CUD
Cov) Rivg Road
UNDPOffice
Doman Law Stud
4. Imtpove th manegant    (a) Reduced tlhe                          Aftep ebabilttiond maw ma_.eze
of public tanst tmnas    pa g duration (mins):                             procedures introduced.
(i) CMB Station             S2
Taget to be _demind by Uru by Apri
CH) Neoplas                 97       1994 (dstdy to  powv mangemn  d co
(il) Te, Mankoer           42
(*) Reve    cold front
habilitAted loty parkb and
bus teminls (Cedis mills).
Bass 1991
(i) Acora                    204
(u) Kuma                     SO
d;bo
CHU) SskondTakadi             2.7
CMv) Tenm                     8.8
(v) Tamae                     2.3
S. bwron road saft         (a) Reduceoe nmbr of
recorded accidn
00  Kumas                    Ta  to be detemnd by anuay 1, 1995 fowIng
implewntation of mea_e to iprove the rcordin of
ioi Sekadfakoa                                 accdnt
CM) Tes
(v) Tamal



Pelobnus   iaw dka0o  - Project Impmeon, Wors & Goods
Detailed
Appoint          Design                     Appoint                   Compilee      Complele
Detailed Desgn     & Tender        invite     Supevision     Award    C _ontton          Final
Contract             Consultans       Documents      Tenders    Consultan      Contrad       IDie          Acmnt
1. Accra CBD Roads and          Done          March 1993    July 1993    Sept. 1993    Jan. 1994    Dec. 1996      June 1997
Traffic Mmagement
2. SekondifTskoradi Roads       Done           April 1993    July 1993    Sept. 1993    Jan. 1994    Dec. 1995     June 1996
ad Traffic Management
3. Access            to
LOW In ome Arm.                                                                 '
(a) Cont   Lot I                                            July 1994                 Jan. 1995    Dec. 1995     April 1996
(b) Contract Lt2             July 1993       March 1994    Oct. 1994    Oct. 1994    April 1995   March 1996    July 1996
(c) Contact Lot 3                                           Jan. 1995                 July 1995    July 1996     Oct 1996
4. Traffic Engieeing
(a) Accra                     Done           April 1993     July 1993    Oct. 193    Jan. 1994     Dec. 1995     Apri 1996
(b) Kuai, Tema and          Oct. 1993       March 1994    July 1994    Oct. 1994    JaL 1995       Dec. 1996     Apri 1997
Tamale
0I
o 



Complete
Detailed
Appoint          Dedin                      Appoint                   Complete      Complet
Detailed Desigp    & Tender        Invite     Supevidon    Award        Constuion        Fnal
Contratt             Consulants       Documnts       Tenders    Consultant    Conra         IDdvery        Aceount
5. Loy Park an Bus
Tetminal Rehabiltation.
(a) Kulas                                                   June 1994                 Jan. I99S     Jan. 1996     Apri 1996
(b) Accra and Tema                                          Sept. 1994               March 1995    Oc. 1996       Jan. 1997
June 1993       Jan. 1994                   Oct. 1994
(c) Tame                                                    Jan. 199S                 June 1995    Apri 1996      July 1996
(d) SekondUloakoradi                                        April 1995                Oct 199S      Oct. 1996     Dec. 1996
6. Bicycle Paths
(a) Contact Lot I                                           Aug. 1993                 Feb. 1994
(b) Contract Lot 2             Done          April 1993     Jan. 1994    Oct.1993    July 1994
(c) Cont  Lot 3                                             May 1994                  Oct. 1994
7. Proe  equpment for                          June 1994     Sept. 1994                Feb. 1995    Ju  199S
VYEW  BRRI, NRSC,
MTU and TCP.
8. Poce Road                                  Dec. 1993    March 1994                  July 1994    Dec. 1994
Mainnc eupmn for
DUR, AMRD and DRUs.
rI



Penuww'e Inaters - Pro le nn,  Technidl Asirta
INPUT                 ADVERTISE  AWARD CONTRACT  COMPLEE TASK  COMPLEE CONTRACT
1. Recuit Tranmort Planner             June 1993            Jan. 1994                                      Dec. 1995
(a) Report on improving  _                                                       April 1994
of lorry pubh and bus temnl
(b) Repott on          of paring
in:
(i) Accma                                                                  July 1994
(ii) Kaunasi                                                               Aug. 1994
(iii) Selondi/Takoradi                                                     Sept. 1994
(c) Report on regulato  opions for                                               Sept. 1994
improving the quality and qunity of
public transport
(d) Report on options for private                                                Dec. 1994
sector patticipation in Govemet bus
2. Recrait Road Safety Adviser         June 1993            Jan. 1994                                      Dec. 1997
(15 months periodic input)
(a) Report on modalities for                                                     March 1994
improving accident reporting by MTU
and analysis of data by BRRN
(b) Prepre a road safety progam                                                  Sept. 1994
focussing on         and cyclists
, 0
(c) Prepare plan of action for                                                   Sept. 1994
stegteig   of VEIZ
0I 
ON'



138              Annex 4-23
Page 6 of 6
10      A          I
C
Ipg!
.S fi iifi              
|~I i          f 
il  Iii"1eR1iz  
..~It118



139                           An4e 5-1
Page 1 of 10
REPUBIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Economic Ewsuion
General
1.    The analysis of the economic returns associated with the implementation of the project
focused on the urban road rehabilitation, traffic management and non-motorized tansport
components. As part of an urban transport project, each of these components are inter-lated
and have an effect on the overall performance of the road network and public transport
system. Economic rates of return were forecast for these components as descnbe in the
following paragraphs. The benefits of the urban road maintenace equipment and technical
ssistance component are described in qualitative terms below.
2.    Ihe economic costs of the project include the investment costs conssting of final
design, constuction, supervision and physical cotingencies (ess price escalation, taxes and
duties). The costs of routine and periodic maintenance associated with the project roads have
been included in the economic analysis. Each of the 14 road sub-projects were costed
separately and then aggregated to arrive at total costs for the Accra and Takoradi road
rhabilitation components.
Urban Road Rebabtatlon
3.    The rehabilitation of the CBD roads in Accra and SekondiTakDradi, togethr with
related traffic management improvements would reduce traffic congestion in the central areas
of these cites and on the surrounding road network. The primary economic benefits of these
components will be savings in vehicle operating costs for the traffic using the afected
portdons of the urban road network in comparison to the costs for a "do-nothingw scenario. In
quifying these benefits, Consultants I and the government identified a priority sub-
network from a list of 274 km of urban roads. Tbis sub-network consiss of eight high
priority sub-projects with a total length of 18.1 km in Accra, and an additional seven roads
totalling 10.4 km in Sekonditrakoradi.
4.    Forecast traffic volumes for the fourteen road rehabilitation sub-projects were
prepared using various estimaon techniques. Traffic forecasts were prepared for three
classes of vehicles: light vehicles (cars and taxis); light commercial vehicles; and heavy
vehicles (trucks and buses). A conservatively low traffic growth rate of 3.5% per annum was
used in the analysis. The forecast considered the effect of road capacity constraints on ftu
11 Mott MacDonald Iernational, Ltd. and Watertech Consulting Engineers, Rod and
X"hg Rebabiitation-In Accra, Urban 11 Project, Detailed Design Report, September,
1991.



140                            Annex S-1
Page 2 of 10
traffic volume levels. Since traffic volumes are already high on many links, generated and
diverted traffic was not included in the analysis.
5.    Vehicle operating cost estimates prepared by the Ghana Highway Authority were
developed for the three representative vehicle types. Adjustments to the GHA's estimates
were made to reflect the different operational and physical characteristics encountered in
urban areas, particularly with regard to average speed and stop and go traffic cycles. In order
to simulate with and without project conditions, several key analysis parameters were
established, including: flat and rolling road alignments; road surfaces with IRI measurements
ranging from 2,000 to 10,000 mm/km; and car speeds of between 16 (very poor surface
condition) to 35 kph (fair condition). In fact, on some of the links average speeds dropped
below 10 kph, under the threshold of meaningfuil capacity analysis and road user costing.
The analysis considered this factor in the calculation of project benefts. Vehicle operating
cost savings were forecast over a 15 year period, according to the project implementation
schedule. The individual and composite ERRs for this component are provided in Table 5-1.
Trffic Management Improvements al Isolated Junctions
6.    Improvements have been des: aed for 18 additional isolated junctions in Accra and
similar improvements will be designed in the other four cities. A total of $2.32 million has
been assigned for these works. Efforts were made to carry out the economic analysis of the
uaffic management component focussing on the impacts of improved intersection efficiency.
Consultant stadies found that since approach speeds at many intersections are presentdy very
low and delays are greater for long periods, analysis of intersection capacity and the
calculation of vehicle operating cost savings became unreliable. It is known that the proposed
itersection Improvements will increase speeds and reduce delays significandy. Experience
with similar traffic management projects in other developing counties shows tha economic
returns in the range of 3050% are common.
7.    The rehabilitation of bus terminals will reduce the cost of bus operations in Accra and
increase the quantity and quality of bus services. The additional bus terminals will divert
traffic from existing terminals and relieve bus traffic congestion. Increased terminal capacity
and improved bus vehicle circulation will allow bus operators to reduce layover time and
increase bus turnout. Ihis will result in more bus trips and a higher level of service to the
public. Bus operators will experience reduced operating and maintenance expenses associated
with long dwell times at the terminals.
Non-Motorized Transport - Pilot Program
8.    Because there are currently no facilities exclusively for cyclists in Ghana, it is not
possible to accurately predict usage of the pilot paths and consequently to quantify the benefits
that will accrue from them. The economic benefts will arise from savings in bus vehicle
operating costs and savings in bus fares, primarily paid by low income passengers. In both
cases, the benefis can not be quantified since very little data is available concerning the act
mode choice behavior of low income bus passengers in Accra. Savings in bus vehicle
operating costs would result from diversion of bus passengers to the bicycle mode. Annual
surveys will be carried out by DUR after constuction has been completed to measure use of
the paths. These surveys wil also include the collection of infomaton ot users previous
transport arrangements and the costs of operating a bicycle to enable an ex-post economic



141 
Page 3 of 10
analysis to be underuaken. A study of the mobility needs of the urban poor tfmod that 62% of
low-income households own at least one bicycle and that bicycles, Including Imported second-
hand models, are widely available in Accra and are affordable. Access to bicycles will not,
therefore, be a constraint.
9.    The loss of life, personal injuries and property damage associated with taffic
accidents involving motor vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians would be reduced significandy by
the diversion of non-motorized traffic onto the pathways. The availability of pathways would
improve access to employment, government services and health care, particularly for the
urban poor. Greater use of bicycles will contibute to reductions in urban air and noise
pollution associated bus vehicle ftffic.
10.   Each of the four pilot bicycle pathways are located in high density urban travel
corridors. The diversion of bicycles from mixed traffic on urban roals to the bicycle
pathways will reduce conflicts between slow-moving bicycles and faster motor vehicles and
improve traffic flow. During off-peak travel peliods, the bicycle paths will facilitate
recreational bicycling, an activity that can be undertaken by people from all income groups.



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----
_0 -                                                            08000 000S0                          0    0_
iXt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 'I.
HbP~~~~~~~~~ ___ -                                ___________-__-__-__-__-__-__-__-_-- --
.   9  4   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   I   I   I  C  
Ja                                   - w            - - - -- -  *- -0           
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .9
-~~~~~      -.~~~~ ~              ASI 
m      -           - - -- -                 - 9-4    N  - -
i  4   X    m   _                a ~~~4:                                                                          * 94
t t   t t                           J N a~~~~~~~~~~~    9
. | _ _ _ -  _ _ _ _ _ _N N l                                               N _4  W  Mi



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----
.- U.~~~~~~-   
.4 t 
- - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
|i~~~~~~~~~~ - -o - - 3- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     
~~~~~ __        f s4§    i4 
4   g  z  g X    X  S   I    ~~~~~I. .# , -  I I          p           ~~~~~~~~I
.4t                            a                          
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
~~~RR~~ 
-   -    -    -   -    -    - -    -    -   -    -    - -    -    -i-
t   t                -{l~~~~~~~~~~~*



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0 -.                 -     -   -   -I-  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
------------ ----
|~~ p.                                                     _   S  
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
t   t tO§|1°!!gEEsEi                   itg        ! u   WO s 
*           f- -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
g                                                         -' -     "t|a§  lEf    
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ * _                          __________          
.~~.        .4444 5 #3f III   g44N|n      
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
- ----  -a -         a- ---
.. .. 
-          9-  - -9 --- - - -
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
- - -----------                                                  
B   g  !gNuE|s#"00|§hS            "gg          $m          ti   g   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
---------------------------.. R s- ------
t  ___   __   ___  ___   __  C___VI___e  _.            &  
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 8.   ;- |. SA!ff3    0S38  lB°     . i   
_______________                                           ___ I:I i!|~ -                               W 
-          - X-                    
ooooooooooooooooooo_        gse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'*
---a ~ ~        * *                                                      -    
gaou,*;e*i"tESl §DiM31 *                     0 



a.   .* 
I__ _,                    
t  |  Q 3 N ao - g § i i | | | | D 4 f i N   9 . ,         |           >   t |  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
I                                                                                                        I0Na@38i§*NS-,       
*        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                _ _ _ _jI                               . t  
o ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                                      w                 i |i{Z*"i2|@|| - 9t
,N~~~~  . . a .  s            §BNS *B                               ,. C         
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~  _ _0__         _         sg 
F~~                                                 ~~ *  Iw 4
*,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i:..



X                             A-------    --   --- - - - -                                                                           H
di          C-n O 
aa
X              -                                                                    Iu "6tw             b  
'S             W    N                                                                           (      .)-Zo_w              ;       
n           w                  . a o o  g a   ~               ~        8 24    !sa ei  W.
*                                                                    a           N q o W O w b "° t * § X p g W  t t 4  r  
,,           -           as                    *..$%( a!°§-w     X-;       _____Xg0~ 8 l _ |
X------- ----- -- -----                               ----
-     -   -     -   -     -    -   -     -     -   -   - -  -     -   -   --   -   1~~    f
a                                                                                   - ~~i-    0  . 
-0              %OO OO O O              OOO    O O.     
a                _N
I      ~    ~.   ..       .' S   ~.4t       NO..-n
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
£
_____ ____ .__-- ____               _____          ____



148                      ADfl5L
Attachment 7
Page 10 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECr
Economic Awlysis
Accra Roads Rehi on Component
Cost Benefit Analysis
Barnes Road, Accra
Sensitivity Analysis: No Maintenance
Discounted Not
Actual Cost     Discounted Cost    Actual Benefits    Discounted Benefits  Cash Flow
Year       (Cedis. m)        (Codis, m)        (Cedis, m)         (Cedis, m)        (Cedis, m)
1993
1994              -273.30S          -237.657                                              -237.657
1995              -382.627          -289.321                                              -289.321
1996              '437.289          -287.525                                              -287.525
1997                0.000             0.000           872.799             499.026          499.026
1998                 0.000            0.000           752.789             374.269          374.269
1999                0.000             0.000           617.037             266.762          266.762
2000                 0.000            0.000            462.778            173.975          173.975
2001                 0.000             0.000           308.518            100.855          100.85S
2002                 0.000             0.000           154.259             43.850           43.850
2003                 0.000            0.000             0.000               0.000            0.000
2004                 0.000             0.000            0.000               0.000            0.000
2005                 0.000             0.000            0.000               0.000            0.000
2006                 0.000             0.000            0.000               0.000            0.000
2007                 0.000             0.000             0.000              0.000            0.000
2008                 0.000             0.000            0.000               0.000            0.000
2009                 0.000             0.000             0.000              0.000            0.000
2010                 0.000            0.000             0.000               0.000            0.000
2011                 0.000             0.000             0.000              0.000            0.000
TOTAL            -1093.221          414.502           3168.180           1458.737          644.235
EIRR                                                                                          20%
0.197
Notes: Excludes time savings benefits.
Costs and Benefits Adjusted for 460/550 X-Rate Change.



149                           Annex 5-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Environmental Mitigation Measures
General
1.    The project components that will have an environmental impact include the road
rehabilitation components and related traffic management components in Accra and
Sekondi/Takoradi, the rehabilitation of lorry parks and bus terminals, access roads to low
income areas, and non-motorized transport paths. Environmental assessment reports have
already been reviewed by the Bank for the road rehabilitation components, which account for
56% by value of total project costs. Similar reports will be prepared for the remaining
components during implementation after detailed design has been carried out.
2.    In environmental terms this is a benign project which will have a net beneficial
impact. All works, with the exception of a 300m road link in Accra, involve rehabilitation of
infrastructure fcilities within existing alignments and boundaries. There will be no
demolition of residential properties and therefore no resettlement will be required. Negative
mpacts of noise and increased dust levels will occur during construction but these temporary
inconveniences will be outweighed by the long term benefits i.e. reduced traffic emissions
from freer flowing traffic, safer conditions for pedestrians and NMT users, improved road-
side drainage, more hygienic lorry parks, increased use of NMT and general tidying-up of the
central areas of Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi, arising out of the project. The mitigation
measures to be adopted for the road rehabilitation components and those anticipated for the
other project components are described below.
Road Rehabilitation Components
3.    As noise vibration levels are likely to be increased by construction activities
construction will not be permitted in, or close to, residential areas at night.
4.    Dust levels will increase when existing road surfaces are removed and as a result of
some temporary diversions. Obligations will be placed on contractors in the contract
documents to carry out regular dousing of such surfaces and in the case of diversions expected
to be utilized for more than four weeks, to provide temporary sealed surfaces.
5.    The 300m road link referred to in paragraph 2 above will involve the demolition of
parts of two commercial buildings. The buildings are located on Government land reserved
for the road, one is owned by a parastatal and the other is a small private vehicle workshop.
The workshop owners will be able to continue operating after the road has been buil and will
be compensated for the parts of their property that are demolished.
6.    Some mature trees will be lost as a result of localized widening of the roads but this
will not have a noticeable effect on the total number of trees, or individual tree species in
Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi. The loss of these trees will be ameliorated by planting new
trees alongside roads from which trees have been lost and planting shrubs in the medians of



150                            Annex 5-2
Page 2 of 2
dual carriageways. Advice has been sought from the Department of Parks and Gardens on
the most suitable species.
7.    Account has been taken of the presence of utility services in detailed design by
limiting deep excavation to sections of road which have structurally failed. Existing services,
where locations are known, have been indicated on contract drawings. Close liaison will be
maintained with all utility agencies during construction to ensure any accidental damage is
dealt with promptly.
8.    Measures will be taken at quarries and borrow pits from which construction materials
are obtained to prevent erosion occurring. Wherever possible pits will be levelled and
reseeded. In cases where local inhabitants request pits to be left to collect water, measures
will be taken to prevent them becoming sources of containation and breeding grounds for
pests such as mosquitos.
lorry Parks and Bus Terminals
9.    At present virtually all lorry parks and bus terminals are unpaved and have only
rudimentary sanitation facilities. Surfacing and associated storm water drainage will be
provided. Drains will channel runoff to existing drains or water courses with precautions
taken to prevent erosion occurring at the discharge point. Oil and garbage traps will be
incorporated to prevent downstream contamination.
10.   Sanitation facilities will be flushing systems discharging to existing sewers where
these are close by or to septic tanks and soakaways. VIP latrines are not considered suitable
at these locations because of the high level of usage.
Acoess Roads and NMT Paths
11.   The access roads will be constructed on the alignments of existing gravel or earth
roads and NMT paths alongside existing roads. The roads will be sealed with surface
dressing and lined roadside drains and culverts will be provided. Erosion protection measures
will be taken at drain discharge points. Reseeding with grass and low bushes will be carried
out at the side of the drains with particular attention paid to cutflngs where natural seeding
may be slow. Unlined drains will be sufficient to cope with the runoff from the NMT paths.
Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation
12.   The Environmental Protection Council (EPC) is responsible for environmental maters
but they do not have sufficient resources to cope with assessment, monitoring and evaluation
requirements. Financial provision has therefore been made in the project to engage qualified
local consultants for around 10 months. The supervision consultants will ensure compliance
with matters covered in the contract documents such as noise limitation and dust suppression.
Terms of reference and selection of the environmental consultants shall be satisfactory to EPC
and the Bank.



151                            Annex §1
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Doecuents Avalabe In Ihe Projedt MYe
1.    Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Final Report by De
Leuw, Cather International Limited (May 1988) (D39104)
2.    Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Amendment No. 1,
Traffic Management Services, Sekondi-Takoradi Traffic Management Assessment Report, by
De Leuw, Cather lnerational Limited
3.    Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Amendment No. 1,
Traffic Management Services, Accra Expanded Traffic Management Assessment Report, by
De Leuw, Cather International Limited
4.    Accra Urban Transport Options Study, Final Rer art by Alan Armstrong-Wright
(October 1989)
S.    Transport Taxation and Road-User Charges in Sub-Saharan Africa - Ghana Case
Study, Reuben Gronau, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (July 1991)
6.    Road and Drainage Rehabilitation in Accra, Urban II Project, Detaled Design Report
(Executive Summary, Vol. I - Report, Vol. II - Appendices, Vol. m - Field and Laboratory
Tests, Vol. IV - Contract Packaging), by WatertechMott MacDonald (September 1991)
7.    Proposals for 1992 Annual Estimates, Government of the Republic of Ghana, Ministry
of Roads and Highways, Department of Urban Roads (October 1991)
8.    Urban H Preparatory Studies: Accra Residential and Market Upgrading Study, Final
Report by Didex Consult (June 1992)
9.    Assessing the Transport and Mobility Needs of the Urban Poor, Final Report by TDP
Consult (October 1992)
10.   Urban Transport Project - Addendum to Urban Poor Mobility Needs Study (Non-
Motorized Vehicle Counts), Draft Final Report by TDP Consult (November 1992)
11.   Urban Transport Project: Addendum to Urban 11 Consultancy, Road and Drainage
Rehabilitation. Inception Report by Mott MacDonald in association with Watertech, Ghana
(December 1992)
12.   Urb  Transport Project: Addendum to Urban I Consultancy, Road and Drainage
Rehabilitation. Non-Motorized Vehicle Study, Report Part 1 - Standards, Mott MacDonald in
association with Watertech, Ghana (January 1993)



152                           Annex 61
Page 2 of 2
13.   Environmental Assessment Report on Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Magement
Inprovements in Accra, Environmental Management Associates Ltd (February 1993)
14.   As 13 for Sekondi/Takoradi.
15.   Urban Transport Policy Action Programme. Final Report by Ross Silcock Partership
16.   Detailed economic analyses.



IBRD 2461
BURKINAFAS
GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
i^>  UPPER       ST{  8o    \  \                                  Projed Locations
NSHOWN  PROJECT LOCATIONS
Yd.                                           IN~~~~~~~ RED oA
PCONAJIY ROADS
TERTLARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
NAlrONAL CAPA
NORfiHRON BOUNDARIES
- HA1IONALBOUNDA,IES
I&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
C6TE
/          /   / ~~BRONG-^O]\                                          l
JW&A. t3/  J  o                             0   30  30  40 fio
I                                          0_ 1.0 Ir/I   I 
X                                E                                                                               0~~~~~~~~
KUMASI                                                 M~~~~~~~TGO
WESER                                                            ACCRA m.
for #Wthe cionm   of readsi
i       ,IV*  for d,s
ati liv bowmdmies so
an  manip do iw rn1 oti th
p: -    .               -. .
PM     OF  TN NW     AR  1t-3
- r - - - ,_, . - - ,- F GUINA. -                                                      _..__ _W _._  
AM RIt 93



GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Accra-Bicycle Paths,
Junction Improvements and
Transport Terminals to be Rehabilitated
PROJECT:\
_   BICYCLE PATHS
G JUNCflONSTO BE IMPROVED                                                                                                                                                          AF  
TtANSORT TERMINALS TO BE REHAIUTATED
See Anne?es 4-5 & 4-6 for
names of jwtwdiom and temira's
AREA T WHICH ACCESS
W~LL BE IMPROVED
EAUSTINGi
=          BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                                                                                                 INTERNATION
0    TtFtC CIRCLES                                                  AD                                                                                                         O 
:ROAS AND STREETS
I4--4 RALROADS
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~



GHANA
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                      E
CENTRAL ACCRA
Roads to be Rehabilitated
PROJECT:                                                                                                  z
ROADS 1O BE REHARIUTATED
£EUSTING:
O     TRAFFIC CIRCLES
-          ROADS D STREETS
----RAILROADS
Thhs mop ha teen  prepred kP     _
t, The Wol   aW   tff
sxcssiewfor the con benee
afraesand is far the
kreralus of TheWor$dt Bank/t 
ond the b          Wmndanien  shown
on ths maadano#iinpks eo1/ th_
pad  c,y hk W orl Bank                                                       _ Ck'osp.*                                                                     * 
enorseetorocrepnra _n  ce  _|
SURINA PASO
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H  A  N  At   
? XX I I A f ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of Guinea|
}   ,  \            \                \             \               t °                    .                              5X                    1                      .             X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50  00
,GHANA\    _                                                                                                                                                                       I f
3 _            _           .    _                                                \             zLake 



To Sekondi    To Kumosi
d~~~~~~~~~~Cp Coa   RO
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
GHANA.                                                   4)
URBAN TRANSPORT PR OECT
Sekondi-Takoradi
Roads and Transport Terminals
to be Rehabilitated
BUILT-UP ARME
.  QA AN^DrST\;(                              TAKpRA3 Di                     \
8URKINA FASO
G AA
.,,d.   ow   f$  for,  .
any ihe   fW .r
t~~~~~~~~~~e  bS or,d abodee\



