Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2498 GH
                   Development Credit Agreement
                     (Urban Transport Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 26, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2498 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 27, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower's urban
transport sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BRRI" means the Building and Road Research Institute
within the Borrower's University of Science and Technology;
      (b)   "DUR" means the Department of Urban Roads within MRH;
      (c)   "MLG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local Government;
      (d)   "MOTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications;
      (e)   "MRH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Roads and
Highways;
      (f)   "MTU" means the Motor Traffic Unit, within the
Borrower's Ministry of the Interior;
      (g)   "NRSC" means MOTC's National Road Safety Committee;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a letter of agreement dated April 28, 1992 between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (i)   "Special Account" means either the DUR Special Account
or the MOTC Special Account referred to in Sections 2.02 (b)(i) and
(ii) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "TCP" means the Department of Town and Country Planning
within MLG;
      (k)   "UTU" means the Urban Transport Unit within MOTC; and
      (l)   "VELD" means the Vehicle Examinations and Licensing
Department within MOTC.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-five million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 55,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   (i)    The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A
                   of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a
                   special deposit account (the DUR Special
                   Account) in a commercial bank on terms and
                   conditions satisfactory to the Association,
Page  3
                   including appropriate protection against set-
                   off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
                   payments out of, the DUR Special Account shall
                   be made in accordance with the provisions of
                   Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
            (ii)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B
                   of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a
                   special deposit account (the MOTC Special
                   Account) in a commercial bank on terms and
                   conditions satisfactory to the Association,
                   including appropriate protection against set-
                   off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
                   payments out of, the MOTC Special Account shall
                   be made in accordance with the provisions of
                   Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2003 and ending January 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
Page  4
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MRH and Part B of the Project through MOTC, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and urban transport
practices, and with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank a DUR project
account and a MOTC project account, each on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to be used exclusively for the
purpose of meeting expenditures under the Project which are not
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposits referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, deposit into said accounts,
promptly before each fiscal quarter starting after the Effective
Date, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's counterpart
contribution to the financing of the Project required for such
quarter under the budget adopted pursuant to Section 3.04 of this
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
      (a)   communicate to the Association, not later than
September 30 of every year, an estimate of Project expenditures and
the amount of counterpart funding required from the Borrower for the
succeeding fiscal year; and
      (b)   adopt, not later than December 31 of every year, and
thereafter implement in a timely manner, a budget (including a
breakdown by fiscal quarter), satisfactory to the Association, for
implementation of the Project during the succeeding fiscal year
(including for fiscal year 1994).
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   adopt and thereafter implement annual budgets for the
transport sector which include the following allocations for
periodic and routine maintenance works on urban roads:
            (i)    for fiscal year 1994, at least $5,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,000,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
            (ii)   for fiscal year 1995, at least $6,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,200,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
            (iii)  for fiscal year 1996, at least $7,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,500,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
            (iv)   for fiscal year 1997, at least $8,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,600,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
            (v)    for fiscal year 1998, at least $9,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,700,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
                   and
            (vi)   for fiscal year 1999, at least $10,200,000
                   equivalent for periodic maintenance, and
                   $2,800,000 equivalent for routine maintenance;
                   and
      (b)   immediately prior to each fiscal quarter within each
fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) above, provide to DUR one
quarter of the annual allocations set out for such fiscal year to be
used for such periodic and routine maintenance works.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, through the Closing Date,
continue to annually contract out to the private sector at least 80%
(by value) of road maintenance works.
      Section 3.07. (a) UTU shall employ: (i) beginning not later
than January 1, 1994, an urban transport advisor for at least two
years; and (ii) beginning not later than April 1, 1994, a road
safety advisor for at least 12 months, each under terms of reference
and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
      (b) DUR shall employ: (i) beginning not later than January 1,
1994, a municipal engineer for at least three years; and (ii) a
contract management specialist as referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement for at least three years, each under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association, not earlier than February 1, 1996, and not later
than April 30, 1996, a mid-term review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover,
among other things:
Page  6
            (i)    the performance of DUR and MOTC (including, in
                   particular, UTU) in implementing the Project;
            (ii)   the availability of the Borrower's counterpart
                   funding, and the adequacy of its budgetary
                   allocations for and expenditures on road
                   maintenance;
            (iii)  the results of the studies: (A) regarding DUR
                   under Part A.6 of the Project, (B) regarding
                   regulatory options for public transport under
                   Part B.1 of the Project, and (C) regarding
                   accident reporting and analysis under Part B.5
                   of the Project;
            (iv)   implementation of the action plan relating to
                   maintenance works referred to in paragraph 9 (a)
                   of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
            (v)    the design and implementation by DUR of a
                   maintenance management system;
            (vi)   improvements to the management of lorry parks
                   and bus terminals, including cost recovery
                   therefrom;
            (vii)  the effectiveness of training provided under the
                   Project;
            (viii) recommendations for modifications to
                   implementation of the Project;
            (ix)   the adequacy of the amounts allocated to
                   periodic and routine road maintenance works
                   under Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
            (x)    the degree of achievement of the Project's
                   objectives in light of the monitoring indicators
                   agreed upon with the Association.
      (b)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at least
60 days prior to the mid-term review described in paragraph (a)
above, a report in scope and detail, satisfactory to the
Association, describing the status of the items listed in such
paragraph and of Project and Program implementation generally.
      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the
further implementation of the Project and the Program, and shall
thereafter implement such action plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for each Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  7
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of either
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower shall have established the DUR and MOTC
project accounts referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and
shall have deposited: (i) an initial amount of $662,000 equivalent
into the DUR project account; and (ii) an initial amount of $13,000
equivalent into the MOTC project account;
      (b)   DUR shall have: (i) employed utility contractors for the
relocation of public utility services in the roads to be
rehabilitated in Accra under Part A.1 of the Project, under terms
and conditions and selected in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) prequalified contractors
Page  8
pursuant to Part A.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement to bid for the
rehabilitation of roads in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi under Part A.1
of the Project; and
      (c)   DUR shall have employed a contract management
specialist, under terms of reference and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance and
              Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
                   Accra
            For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Joseph Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Page  9
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Civil Works:                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                55% of local
                                                expenditures
      (a) for the Project       31,660,000
          (other than
          Parts A.3 and
          A.5)
      (b) for Parts A.3          9,490,000
          and A.5 of the
          Project
(2)   Equipment and              1,500,000      100% of foreign
      Vehicles                                  expenditures and
                                                55% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants'               4,980,000      100%
      Services and
      Training
(4)   Incremental                   40,000      100%
      Operating Costs
      for DUR
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part B of the Project
(5)  Civil Works                  50,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                55% of local
                                                expenditures
(6)  Equipment and               620,000        100% of foreign
     Vehicles                                   expenditures and
                                                55% of local
                                                expenditures
(7)  Consultants'              1,140,000        100%
     Services and
     Training
(8)  Incremental                  40,000        100%
     Operating Costs
     for UTU
Miscellaneous
Page  10
(9)  Refunding of                180,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02(c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated               5,300,000
                              __________
       TOTAL                  55,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "training" means expenditures for seminars,
fellowships, courses and other forms of training, each as are
approved by the Association; and
      (d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means
expenditures for Project management and monitoring, including office
expenses, travel costs, in-house studies, and salaries for temporary
contract staff only.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
      (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
      (b)   under Category (1)(b) for the rehabilitation of any
lorry park or bus terminal or for the construction of any access
roads until, following an environmental analysis conducted under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, the Borrower
shall have adopted an environmental mitigation plan for such
rehabilitation or construction activity satisfactory to the
Association.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the quality
and efficiency of roads and other urban transport services, and the
efficiency of their production; (ii) improve and broaden access to
such services; (iii) improve the efficiency of non-motorized
transport alternatives; (iv) increase safety for pedestrian and
other traffic; and (v) improve the Borrower's management of the
urban transport sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Infrastructure Improvement Activities and
Institutional Development of DUR
1.    Rehabilitation of roads in Accra and Sekondi/Takoradi,
including improving road-side drainage, and constructing lay-bys for
public transport, parking bays for shopping areas and protected
pedestrian crossings.
2.    Improving traffic management and implementing accident
reduction measures in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi/Takoradi, Tamale and
Tema through widening of junctions, installation of linked traffic
Page  11
signals, use of one-way traffic flow, use of controlled pedestrian
crossings, improved roads signs and markings, and other measures.
3.    Rehabilitation of lorry parks and bus terminals in Accra,
Kumasi, Sekondi/Takoradi, Tamale and Tema.
4.    Increasing access to, and improving the quality of, non-
motorized transport facilities through:
      (a)   the construction of about 50 km of dedicated cycle paths
in Accra connecting primarily low-income, as well as middle-income,
residential areas to commercial and business districts; and
      (b)   the preparation of a study to develop and implement a
master plan for a comprehensive cycle paths network for Accra.
5.    Construction of access roads from about seven low-income areas
in Accra to main arterial routes.
6.Increasing the institutional and operational capacity of DUR
through:
      (a)   the development and operation of a road maintenance
management system, including execution of a related preparatory
study covering, inter alia, the appropriate balance between private
and public sector execution of maintenance works;
      (b)   the preparation of an organization and management study
regarding: (i) the organizational and staffing requirements of DUR;
(ii) the resource requirements of DUR, including the resources
required to extend DUR's activities to Tamale; and (iii) a training
program for DUR staff;
      (c)   construction of offices in Accra and field staff housing
for DUR, and the acquisition of equipment; and
      (d)   training of the staff of DUR, the Accra Metropolitan
Roads Unit and district roads units, and the distribution of
equipment to such units.
Part B:     Institutional Development of MOTC and Related Agencies
1.    Establishment and operation of UTU to improve government
coordination of, and support policy formulation for, the urban
transport sector, including preparation of related studies regarding
(a) regulatory options for improving the quantity and quality of
public transport, (b) management of parking in Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi/Takoradi, Tamale and Tema, and (c) options for private
sector participation in public sector bus companies.
2.    Development and implementation by UTU and NRSC of a road
safety campaign focusing on driver education, pedestrians and users
of non-motorized vehicles, and the acquisition of equipment in
support thereof.
3.    Improving the capacity of the Borrower to manage and operate
the urban transport sector through the training of staff of UTU,
VELD, BRRI, NRSC, MTU, and MLG (including specifically TCP) in urban
transport related fields.
4.    Increasing the operational capacity of VELD to test vehicles
through the acquisition of vehicle testing equipment for its
facilities in Accra, Tamale and Koforidua, and the construction of
a new testing facility in Tamale.
5.    Improving accident reporting and effectiveness of traffic
regulations by strengthening the operational capacity of BRRI and
MTU through the acquisition of computers and other equipment.
6.    Improving the management of lorry parks and bus terminals,
including preparation of a management study.
Page  12
7.    Increasing the operational capacity of TCP, including
improving its development information system, through the
acquisition of equipment.
8.    Establishment and operation of parking and traffic units in
Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi/Takoradi, Tamale and Tema.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    Bidders for works under contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000,000 or more shall be prequalified as provided
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works under Part A.1
of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more.
4.    Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Ghana
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for (i) works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $21,000,000, and (ii) goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $570,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
Page  13
amount equivalent to $650,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Contracts for spare parts and accessories of a proprietary
nature, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, (ii) each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of over $200,000, and (iii)
the first procurement of works to be made under Part D.1 of this
Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for any contract are
to be made out of either Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of such contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect
of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of either Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding paragraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
Page  14
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management
1.    The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through DUR
under an implementation program satisfactory to the Association,
which shall include the requirements that DUR:
      (a)   maintain supervisory personnel for Part A of the Project
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   furnish to the Association, on a quarterly basis, a
report regarding the status of Project implementation and the impact
indicators agreed upon with the Association, together with
documentation regarding actual expenditures on periodic and routine
maintenance works.
2.    The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project through
UTU, and shall operate UTU under terms of reference, and with
staffing (including their qualifications and experience),
satisfactory to the Association, which:
      (a)   terms of reference shall include the requirement that
UTU furnish to the Association on a quarterly basis a report
regarding the status of Project implementation and the impact
indicators agreed upon with the Association; and
      (b)   staffing shall include staff economists and transport
planners: (i) totalling at least four beginning January 1, 1995,
(ii) totalling at least five beginning January 1, 1996, and (iii)
totalling at least six (including at least three transport planners)
beginning January 1, 1997.
3.    The Borrower shall implement environmental mitigation
procedures satisfactory to the Association, for the construction and
rehabilitation activities under the Project.
Project Implementation
4.    The Borrower shall adopt, not later than December 1 of each
year, and thereafter implement a training program for the subsequent
calendar year, satisfactory to the Association, which shall be
designed to take into account the results of earlier training
programs provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower
shall adopt the training program for calendar year 1994 not later
than March 31, 1994.
5.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   carry out the studies under the Project under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, and shall complete the
following studies by the dates indicated thereafter:
            (i)    the analysis of options to improve the
                   management of, and cost recovery from, lorry
                   parks and bus terminals under Part B.6 of the
                   Project, to be completed not later than April
                   30, 1994;
            (ii)   the organization and management study of DUR
                   under Part A.6(b) of the Project, to be
                   completed not later than December 31, 1994;
            (iii)  the analysis of the regulatory options for
                   improving the quality and quantity of public
Page  15
                   transport under Part B.1 of the Project, to be
                   completed not later than September 30, 1994; and
            (iv)   the analysis of options for improving MTU's
                   accident reporting and BRRI's analysis of
                   accident data under Part B.5 of the Project, to
                   be completed not later than June 30, 1994; and
      (b)   within six months of completion thereof, consult with
the Association regarding modalities for implementing the
recommendations of such studies.
6.    In carrying out Parts A.1, A.2, A.5 and A.6(c) of the Project,
the Borrower shall rehabilitate the roads, undertake the traffic
management improvements, build the additional access roads, and
construct the housing and office space for DUR, each as agreed upon
with the Association, and shall adopt and thereafter implement
annual work programs, satisfactory to the Association, for carrying
out such activities.
7.    In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   rehabilitate such lorry parks and bus terminals agreed
upon with the Association, and in accordance with design and
implementation plans satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   ensure, as a precondition for rehabilitating any lorry
park or bus terminal, that there shall have been adopted in respect
of such facility a plan, satisfactory to the Association, for
recovering fees to maintain such facilities (which plan shall
incorporate the recommendations of the study referred to in
paragraph 5(a)(i) of this Schedule, to the extent available).
8.    In carrying out Part A.4(a) of the Project, the Borrower shall
undertake the path construction as agreed upon with the Association,
and shall adopt and thereafter implement annual work programs,
satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out such cycle path
construction.
9.    In carrying out Part A.6(a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   complete not later than December 31, 1994, the
maintenance management system preparatory study under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide,
inter alia, for the preparation of an action plan to implement the
recommendations of such study regarding private sector participation
in maintenance works;
      (b)   adopt, not later than March 31, 1995, a maintenance
management system, satisfactory to the Association; and
      (c)   thereafter implement such system not later than July 31,
1995.
10.   In carrying out Parts A.6 and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall acquire the list of equipment agreed upon with the Association
and, in the case of MTU, shall only acquire such equipment.
11.   In carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, UTU and NRSC shall
develop, not later than September 30, 1994, and thereafter
implement, not later than January 1, 1995, a road safety program
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
12.    In carrying out Part B.8 of the Project, the Borrower shall
operate the parking and traffic units under terms of reference
agreed upon with the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  16
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
            (i)    with respect to the DUR Special Account,
                   Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the
                   table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
                   Agreement; and
            (ii)   with respect to the MOTC Special Account,
                   Categories (5) through (8) set forth in the
                   table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
                   Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for:
(i) Part A of the Project, in the case of the DUR Special Account;
and (ii) Part B of the Project, in the case of the MOTC Special
Account, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to: (i) $1,500,000, in the case of the DUR Special
Account, and (ii) $300,000, in the case of the MOTC Special Account,
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into such
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation for such Special Account and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into such Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of such Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into such Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into such Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of such
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
Page  17
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
     (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for such Special Account, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to Part A of the Project, in the case of the DUR Special
Account, and Part B of the Project, in the case of the MOTC Special
Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation for such Special Account.
      Thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for such Special Account shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawals or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
