Page  1
November 29, 1995
His Excellency
R.K. Peprah
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Accra, Ghana
Dear Sir:
                      Urban Transport Project (Cr 2498-GH)
                 Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement)
dated July 26, 1993, for the above mentioned project, as amended to
date, between the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
International Development Association (the Association).  We also
refer to your telex received November 15, 1995 regarding this Credit
No 2498-GH, requesting an increase from 55 percent to 85 percent of
the local expenditures to be financed from the proceeds of the
Credit.  Following an internal review, in order to stay within the 90
percent limit of total project costs to be met by the Association, the
Association hereby agrees to amend the Agreement as follows:  The table
in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Agreement is amended by increasing
the percentage of local expenditures to be financed under Categories
(1), (2), (5) and (6) from 55 percent to 75 percent.  All other
provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein shall remain in
full force and effect.
      The revised table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is attached to this
letter.  Kindly acknowledge receipt by countersigning and dating the
enclosed copy and returning it to us.  The amendment shall be effective
as of the date of countersignature.
                              Sincerely,
                              Ian Porter
                            Acting Director
                    West Central Africa Department
Attachment:  Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By: /s/ Kwame Peprah
    Authorized Representative
Date:  November 28, 1995
cleared with and cc: Freese (LOAAF); Adu (LEGAF)
cc: Messrs./Mmes. Lafourcade (o/r), Kaps (AF4DR);
                  Najm (AF4CO); Wright, Coulthart, Burningham
                  (AF4IN); Weindler (LOAAF); Al Habsy (LEGAF);
                  Framji, Ewool (RMG); Div. Files; AISC
Page  2
