 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14857

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 10/15/2015

               Country: Pakistan
             Project ID: P089378                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Pk Balochistan Small           Project Costs (US$M):                    25.00                23.36
                         Scale Irrigation
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                     25.00                25.00
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers: -                             Board Approval Date :                             02/26/2008
                                                                Closing Date:         06/30/2013         12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Irrigation and drainage (100%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (40%); Water resource management (40%); Participation
                           and civic engagement (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Keith Robert A. Oblitas    Ridley Nelson           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

To assist the Province of Balochistan to improve the management of water resources in the Pishin-Lora River Basin.

Source Finance Agreement: June 25, 2008

(The objectives in the Project Appraisal Report are similar in substance to the Financing Agreement Objectives)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

A. Partial Restoration of water storage capacity of the Bund-e Khushdil Khan (BKK) reservoir.
(Estimated costs at appraisal (base costs without contingencies) - $10.80 million; actual costs $11.56 million.)

Restoring the hydrological balance in the basin by improving the storage capacity of the BKK reservoir, facilitating the
recharge of the aquifer, increasing conveyance efficiency and water management efficiency at the farm level, and
rehabilitating watersheds and rangelands. Specifically the component was to: (i) rehabilitate BKK to increase the level
of the reservoir, construct a protective encroacher’s bund, remodel feeder canals, and repair headwork and outlet
channels; (ii) initiate on-farm water management; (iii) pilot new technologies on 400 ha of high efficiency irrigation
schemes; and (iv) rehabilitate 8,200 ha of watersheds and rangelands.

B. Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes.
(Estimated costs at appraisal - $9.66 million; actual costs $5.65 million.)
Improving the operation of 15 small-scale irrigation schemes (SSISs) by: (i) enhancing existing aquifers, improving
flood protection, lining irrigation canals, and providing structures such as flow divisors and small storage tanks; (ii)
increasing farmer participation through on the job training in O&M; and (iii) introducing new on-farm water
management practices, including piloting high efficiency irrigation systems to conserve groundwater.

C. Institutional capacity building, further studies and preparation of the next phase.
(Estimated costs at appraisal - $4.53 million; actual costs $6.15 million).

Enhancing the technical, administrative and managerial capacity of the Irrigation Department and other affiliated
departments through training, technical advisory services and study tours, with particular focus on water
management; (ii) formation, capacity strengthening and training of farmers’ or community organizations in community
involvement, participatory and inclusive practices and management, and training in technical skills for O&M; and (iii)
training in management of rangelands and watersheds.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project costs and Financing. Project Costs estimated at Appraisal were $25.00 million and actual costs at completion
were $23.36 million, 93 percent of the costs estimated at appraisal. Due mainly to higher than expected inflation,
project costs in Pakistan Rupees were 47 percent more than anticipated at appraisal, but in real terms, the cost
overrun was six percent. At the same time, the Pakistan Rupee depreciated against the dollar enabling the project to
be completed largely within the Rupee budget, and to expand some project activities (refer below). Financing was
through an IDA Credit of $25.0 million, and 98 percent of this was disbursed. There were no cofinancers. The
borrower's contribution is not specified in the ICR's Project Costs and Financing table.

Project Extension. Project objectives were not revised, and there were no restructurings. However, project closure
was extended by 18 Months due to delays caused by a worsening security situation, and to delayed construction due
to late preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan. The project closed on 12/31/2014 compared with the planned
closure date of 06/30/2013. Project approval was on 02/26/2008, hence the revised project period (Approval to
Closure with the 18 month extension) was 6 years and 10 months.

Additional Project Activities. Although project components were not fundamentally revised, savings from the
depreciation of the Rupee against the dollar, were used to finance expanded or additional sub-activities. The main
expenditures were: additional works for the main irrigation system; an M&E consultancy; rehabilitation of the
observation network for groundwater management; and feasibility studies for irrigation works in two other basins.
These activities themselves also required additional time.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

The Balochistan Small-Scale Irrigation Project’s (BSSIP) objectives were in line with Bank and Government strategies
for inclusive economic growth and water resources management in Pakistan, and were responsive to the technical
and institutional issues needing resolution to improve the management of Balochistan’s water resources. Balochistan
is Pakistan’s poorest province, and covers 44 percent of the country’s land area. It is heavily dependent on agriculture
which contributes 60 percent of the province’s GDP and employs two-thirds of the labor force. Lack of infrastructure,
high service delivery costs, and vulnerability to conflicts, compound the general poverty of the province, and its
prospects for development.

Water is a highly strategic need in Balochistan, yet with remarkably low productivity – at project appraisal irrigation
efficiency was less than 30 percent, due amongst other factors to canals in disrepair, poor water distribution, and
weak water management and community involvement, particularly in the tertiary network. From 1998 to 2004,
successive droughts put pressure on groundwater exploitation resulting in a proliferation of tubewells - from 8,100 in
1985 to 31,800 in 2003. This resulted in over-exploitation of groundwater with water tables falling by up to 3 meters
per annum in some areas. In the main water storage facility in the project area – the Bund Khushdil Khan reservoir
(BKK) – water availability fell drastically, causing the irrigated command area to decrease from 2,000 ha in 1954-61 to
350 ha in 2008. The watersheds also deteriorated. Poor technical management of irrigation, low capacity government
institutions, limited interactions between different institutions such as between irrigation and Agriculture Departments,
and limited community involvement provided a limiting governance framework.

The project was consistent with Bank and Government water sector strategies. In general terms the CAS applicable at
the time of project preparation (April 4, 2006) aimed for broad-based economic growth and improving governance.
Government’s 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper emphasized the threats of water scarcity and declining water
resources. Pakistan’s “Water CAS” of 2005-2008 provided greater detail on water resources management, including
addressing the issues referred to above. The current Country Partnership Strategy, issued in 2014, also provides
more detail on water related strategy, with particular attention to increased agricultural productivity and efficient
management of water resources."

It is noteworthy that such strategy documents have broader goals, such as productivity, poverty alleviation and
economic growth, than aimed for in the project objective to "improve the management of water resources" This is an
output objective with no stated outcome, whereas improving agricultural productivity or achieving water savings would
establish a goal that "improved water management" can aspire to.

Nevertheless, while its ultimate goals were not established, BSSIP set out to improve water management in the
project area and was consistent with Bank and Government strategy papers both at appraisal and project completion.
The project’s Relevance of Objectives was Substantial.

b. Relevance of Design:

BSSIP’s results framework was sound in the identification of actions and expected outputs, but fell short in setting out
a way to bridge the outputs to desired project outcomes such as improved productivity and incomes. Nevertheless,
detailed engineering design was strong, and was focused on activities that could be expected to improve water
resources management and enhance water productivity. (Refer also to Section 4 for comment on additional
agricultural potential).

There were three notable gaps. First, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was not devised during project preparation
and had to be prepared during project implementation. Requiring extensive consultation with affected persons, the
RAP was not released until the second year of the project, delaying the construction program. Second, monitoring
indicators were focused on outputs, and unable to measure outcomes adequately. Due, especially, to the lack of a
functional RAP, and the limited design of the monitorable indicators for measuring outcomes, Third, there is very little
discussion in the PAD (and ICR) of how farmers could access agricultural extension. Given the extensive international
experience that improved agricultural extension services can significantly enhance agricultural productivity, at least
the option of more emphasis on extension and why it would not be considered could have been discussed in the PAD
(Section 4). Relevance of Design is rated Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The Efficacy of BSSIP's objectives to improve the management of water resources is assessed from the perspectives
below:

BSSIP achieved its physical targets for reservoir, canal and other water related infrastructure. As intended, the BKK
reservoir’s capacity was restored to 18,5 million m3 of water, and canal and on-farm works were completed for BKK’s
full intended command area of 2,000 ha. As a result of improved water distribution, about 640 ha of the command
area was switched from ground to surface water irrigation, which would have enabled localized replenishment of
groundwater. On the small-scale irrigation systems, overall cropped area was expanded as planned from 1,000 ha to
1,700 ha. The entire conveyance system was rehabilitated, and 4,000 meters of the BKK main canal and 21,300
meters of water courses were lined. Other land (about 8,000 ha), including rangeland, received some form of
improved water management, such as water harvesting.

A base for management of irrigation and rangelands was also established – 27 farmer/community organizations were
formed compared with the 24 organizations planned. These are intended to take over full management and financing
of the irrigation schemes, but the extent of progress towards this is not provided in the ICR. Nevertheless, farmers’
understanding of groundwater management and aquifers is reported to have improved.

There are some indications of improved productivity: (i) average cropping intensity is reported to have increased by 21
percent from a (very low) 32 percent prior to the project; (ii) crop yields increased by 23 percent (the target had been
180 percent); and (iii) farmer incomes increased by 51 percent. (Source: ICR Monitorable indicators 5 and 7). The
results to date should be considered interim and below potential as functional irrigation only began in the last two
years of the project.

A switch from groundwater to surface water irrigation (a core aim of the project) is still to be meaningfully measured as
the BKK reservoir is only partially filled, and even farmers with restored surface water are yet to fully adjust from
groundwater to surface source. However, there has been a slight reduction in the number of tubewells in the BKK
command area – from a high of 442 wells to 364 wells after surface water became available.
Based on the results above, a start has been made on the BSSIP’s objective to assist Balochistan “to improve the
management of water resources in the Pishin-Lora River Basin.” While data is limited on some expected impacts,
there is sufficient to assess that overall, the project has had impact. The areas of intervention are typical and
appropriate for a project of this nature. BSSIP achieved as planned: restoration of reservoir capacity, rehabilitation of
conveyance networks, a start towards involvement of farmer organizations in management, and technical support
from better trained irrigation officials, including training of farmers in groundwater management. These are means to
improve water productivity and reduce groundwater depletion, and there is some evidence that this is occurring.

As noted under Relevance of design, a question is whether agricultural extension should have been included in
BSSIP. On the one hand, adding agricultural extension would have further complicated an already demanding project.
But on the other hand, international experience indicates that in most cases, agricultural as well as irrigation
improvement achieves higher productivity than irrigation alone. From the ICR, this appears to be implicitly recognized
by statements such as "Farmer Organizations are still not strong enough to organize and procure services such as
agricultural extension advice, agricultural inputs, credit, group commodity marketing etc." (ICR page 14). But a
significant evaluation of the possible impact of agricultural extension is not provided, still leaving questions about the
further impact that agricultural extension might have provided.

On balance, the project’s Efficacy is rated Substantial.


5. Efficiency:

An ERR was estimated in the ICR using broadly the same analytical assumptions as at appraisal. The ICR’s estimate
of the project’s ERR was 20 percent for the BKK and about the same for the small-scale irrigation schemes. BSSIP’s
overall ERR, which included the costs of institutional capacity building (Component C), was estimated at 18 percent;
slightly above the overall project ERR of 16 percent estimated at appraisal. The ERR is moderately sensitive to
changes in benefits and costs – the overall ERR would fall to 14 percent with a 20 percent increase in costs, and fall to
13 percent with a 20 percent fall in benefits.

The ERR analysis is somewhat narrow and does not include externalities in the calculation, such as the benefits of
avoiding expected rising groundwater tables, reduced runoff and erosion, and more equitable distribution of water to
farmers. Such externalities, and other benefits, are of the essence in “managing water resources,” and if these effects
were realized would be part of the project’s broader benefits.

As concerns operational efficiency, an evident inefficiency is the 18 month extension of the project period. This is
substantially explainable by the security difficulties impeding project implementation, but, as indicated in the ICR, not
entirely – the delay in preparation of the RAP held up construction of the BKK. A second inefficiency is the cost
overrun, which in Pakistan Rupee terms was 47 percent over appraisal cost estimates. However, in dollar terms, due
to significant depreciation of the Rupee, the overrun was only six percent, enabling the project to stay within budget.
Thus, the cost overrun was not a significant impediment to implementation and was modest in real terms.

Summarizing, BSSIP was economically viable and the extension of the project period was in large part due to the
security situation. Overall, the project’s Efficiency was Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      16%                                     100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      18%                                     100%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

BSSIP’s objective to improve the management of water resources in Balochistan’s Pishin-Lora River Basin addressed
the key need to improve the productivity of water, and its environmental management, and contributed to the water
strategies of both Government and the Bank. The project’s Relevance of Objectives was Substantial. The Relevance
of the project’s Design was Modest, however: the Resettlement Action Plan was delayed, in turn contributing to the
delays in construction; the design of the Results Framework and M&E program did not adequately link project
components with outcomes; and the lack of involvement of agricultural extension services raises questions on
whether project impact on water and agricultural productivity could have been greater if agriculture had also received
attention. Nevertheless, the project’s Efficacy was Substantial. Most of the irrigation investment program was
completed, and while it is too early to assess the impact of the project on groundwater exploitation, the cropping
intensity, crop yields and beneficiary incomes have improved. Finally, the project was economically viable although
attention to agricultural extension might have raised the benefit stream. Overall, BSSIP’s Outcome was Moderately
Satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

There are four principal risks. First, there is no guarantee that, even with reliable surface water, farmers will halt or
reduce pumping of groundwater. Some farmers might simply intensify production leaving over-exploitation of
groundwater to continue, albeit probably at a reduced rate. Some form of community monitoring may reduce this risk.
Second, the farmer organizations have yet to be significantly tested as their rehabilitated systems need minimum
maintenance in the short-term. It is not yet demonstrated that the farmers will collect adequate funds and undertake
maintenance over the longer term, especially as maintenance costs rise. Third there is concern about staff turnover.
The Irrigation Department has found it difficult to retain highly qualified staff. Finally, and possibly most influential,
there is the security situation itself, reducing the possibilities of reaching farmers, and affecting staff incentives to work
in the areas concerned. BSSIP’s Risk to Development Outcome is Significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

Quality at Entry was strong in engineering features – detailed designs provided a good basis for implementing civil
works and planning O&M, thus providing the backbone to most of the project’s investments. Another strength was
in preparing the Project Implementation Unit’s staff and other relevant agencies in several key areas, notably in
social mobilization, capacity building, and procurement.

There were, however a number of shortfalls. Most consequential was the delays in preparing the RAP, which was
not done until the second year of the project, and which led to project implementation delays. Second, the design
of the M&E program was inadequate in bridging between output and outcome indicators, and also between the
project design and logical framework and the M&E program. Third, procurement was complicated by the number
of community involved bids issued – 110 contracts, Fourth, as noted, there was little focus on agricultural
extension. Recognizing the strengths on the engineering side, Quality at Entry is rated, on balance, Moderately
Unsatisfactory.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

In the initial one to two years the Bank’s orientation was primarily on works, yet, even the start-up of works was
affected by bid documents for contracts which were too large to attract local bidders (while larger contractors
tended to stay away due to the security situation). Several changes during this period in TTLs contributed to the
slow progress, including delays in reviewing procurement documents., A change in the task team brought
emphasis on operating within the security situation, close interaction with communities, and redoing the RAP.
Despite the security constraints, to their great credit the task team found ways of meeting with beneficiaries and
officials and of inspecting project sites. This involved actual site visits in more secure areas, visits by PIU staff and
beneficiaries to Islamabad to discuss with the Task Team, and use of media such as skype and other technologies
for virtual site inspections and discussions with communities. The team had a close relationship with the PIU, and
helped resolve bottlenecks at Government and field levels. Project implementation targets were largely met
despite the initial delays in the construction program. The preparation of the RAP through a participatory process
was a notable achievement. A number of procurement difficulties were tackled to make contracting more practical.
Efforts were made to strengthen weak implementation areas. In summary, although initial supervision was weak,
from the second year of the project the supervision team pulled a difficult project in a difficult work environment to
a broadly successful outcome, and given the demanding circumstances within which the Bank had to operate,
overall Supervision Performance was Satisfactory.

With Quality at entry Moderately Unsatisfactory, and Supervision Satisfactory, the overall Performance of the
Bank was Moderately Satisfactory.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Government’s commitment to improving the management of water resources remained strong throughout the
project period, and counterpart funds were provided in timely fashion. A basis for project implementation was thus
established. Government has also expressed interest in continuing to improve water resources management,
proposing a follow-on project to this effect. On the other hand, collaboration between Irrigation Department staff
and the PIU could have been stronger, and the Technical Assistance Team was contracted late. Government
Performance was Moderately Satisfactory.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The PIU found ways to implement the project under difficult circumstances. PIU staff held intensive
beneficiary/stakeholder consultations to improve community support for project activities. Once the RAP had been
revised, the PIU energetically carried this out. The PIU had a close personal relationship with the communities.
Some staff were directly from the communities and the PIU Director was also from the project area and other
stakeholders. This gave the PIU considerably better access to communities and other stakeholders. The
relationship with the Bank task team was seamless. Project implementation issues were generally tackled quickly
and practically; for instance, reducing the sizes of tenders to enable the participation of small local firms, and
prompt contracting of an environmental specialist to make up for lost time implementing the Environmental
Management Plan. To the extent possible given security conditions, monitoring of project implementation was
thorough. Performance of the Implementing Agency was Satisfactory.

Overall Performance of the Borrower was Moderately Satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

Outcome indicators were not adequately linked with project components, and with project objectives and design. On
the other hand, the output monitorable indicators provided an operational base for measuring physical performance.
The M&E work was to be done in-house and not by consultants. Due to the security situation, a baseline survey was
only carried out on six of the 24 small scale irrigation systems, and not at all on the BKK.

b. M&E Implementation:
Management Information type data, measuring the project’s progress was collected by the PIU, supported by
communities, field based civil society, and contractors. A consultant was hired to increase M&E capacity. A Project
Management Information System was established, producing quarterly reports. The contracting of the M&E specialist
was an important factor in improving the quality of M&E and providing some data on outcomes.

c. M&E Utilization:

The Management Information data was useful to track the project’s progress, but outcome related data was limited.
There were some qualitative assessments, a beneficiary survey at the end of the project, and two documentary films.

Summary: While the security situation did not enable a comprehensive M&E program, the management information
proved useful, and, in the end, the information was sufficient to provide quantitative information for some of the
monitorable indicators. This is impressive in the circumstances, but broader information would have been desirable.
Thus, while with good reason (the security limitations), the overall M&E achievement was Modest.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as category B, with the following safeguards triggered: OP/BP 4.01 - Environmental
Management; OP/BP 4.12 and OD 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement; and OP/BP 7.50 - International Waters.

Environmental Management. An Environmental Management Plan was developed and, after delays in its
implementation, an environmental specialist was hired. A check-list for environmental monitoring was developed, and
the Environmental Management Plan was integrated into the project.

Involuntary Resettlement. The Resettlement Action Plan was not completed until the second year of the project. It
then had to be revised because the number of people affected by the BKK proved to be larger than originally expected
(the number of people affected is not provided in the ICR) and compensation amounts were significantly higher than
anticipated. There is no commentary in the ICR on the quality of the resettlement program, but the expenditure of 112
million rupees was much larger than the costs estimated in the original resettlement program estimated at 15 million
rupees. In part this would reflect the larger than anticipated number of affected persons. But another factor was a
substantial increase in the amount of compensation per individual affected person. The increased compensation
appears to have been acceptable to most of the communities (The ICR reports that nine out of the 10 communities
agreed with their compensation plans). However, overall, there is a lack of information in the ICR on the resettlement
program, even on such basic data as numbers of people affected, and it is, thus, not possible to comment on the
quality of the program.

International Waters. It was determined that the project would not have adverse impact on the quality and quantity of
river water flows, and an exception to the notification requirement was obtained.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management

The ICR advises that financial arrangements, including accounting, reporting, budgeting and funds flow, internal
controls and staffing were adequate. Auditing was done annually by the Auditor General of Pakistan, and reports were
generally on time. A chartered accounting firm was also hired to conduct quarterly internal audits of project activities
and transactions. By the end of the project, most accumulated audit issues had been resolved. The Task Team
advised IEG that audit qualifications were minor, and mostly due to comments after comparing itemized costs as
estimated in the Project Appraisal Document with actual expenditures.

Procurement

The PIU, with support from the Bank procurement specialist, complied at all times with Bank procurement guidelines.
This was a significant achievement as procurement had been identified at appraisal as a risk area. Several steps were
taken to mitigate the risk: extensive training of PIU staff was provided; standard operating procedures were put in
place for all procurement; and, for transparency, all procurement related information was displayed on the Irrigation
Department website. The only major issue was tendering for the BKK, which attracted only one bidder. The problem
was resolved by splitting the contract into three to enable smaller local contractors to bid.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The project experience yields the following lessons of general applicability. Most of the background to the lessons
are contained in the ICR text, and partly in the ICR’s lessons section.

1. If a Resettlement Action Plan is required for a project, it should be prepared as soon as the basic design of works
has been determined.

The RAP was only completed in the second year of the project’s implementation, delaying the start-up and pace of
the construction program.

2. Accompanying irrigation improvements with improved agricultural extension may bolster the impact of the
irrigation investment.

The project did not include improvements in agricultural extension as it was expected that Farmer Organizations
would be able to organize and procure such services themselves. But this was seldom the case. The ICR
comments (page 14) that: “Farmer Organizations are still not strong enough to organize and procure services such
as agricultural extension advice.” The average crop yield improvements reported in the ICR of 23 percent are not
exceptional for an irrigation improvement project and, based on international experience, might have been higher if
agricultural advice had also been better incorporated.

3. Implementation of a project in areas with security difficulties can be facilitated through practical steps by both the
Bank and the Borrower.

Situations and needs will vary by project and by the security situation, but the BSSIP experience yielded the
following learning which may have relevance in some situations elsewhere:
·        A country office based TTL. The TTL’s location in Islamabad was not only useful for its proximity, but also
enabled site visits during limited and unpredictable time-windows of lower security risk. This was not practical for
missions planned well in advance from headquarters.
·         Third party monitoring and video communications. This enabled the Task Team to get some of the
advantages of a site visit in areas where that was not possible. Monitoring by local consultants also helped.
·         Project management staff from the project area. The PIU Director and a number of PIU staff were from the
project vicinity, providing a more harmonious and productive relationship with the communities.
·         A community-based and inclusive approach. Substantial dialogue and participation preceded and
accompanied the irrigation improvements and, in particular, preparation and implementation of the RAPs.
·         A PIU with substantial autonomy and authority. Embedding project management within the existing
administrative structure might have lost the direct focus and capacity to implement under security conditions that
the PIU could provide.
·         Adjusting procurement to enable bidding by local firms. Smaller contracts enabled small local contractors
to bid, whereas large firms from outside the project area had the financial capacity to handle larger contracts, but
were reluctant to work in a security risk area.
·         Flexibility in implementation. For instance, work could be temporarily switched between locations when
one location was experiencing security problems.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR’s considerable strength is its diagnostic orientation. In most sections, the text provides background to the
points made. The Results Framework (ICR, pages 22-26) generally provides quantified information on the project’s
implementation achievements (an exception is the resettlement action program with minimal data). The economic
analysis (Annex 3) is thorough and informative. The links between outputs and outcomes could have been better
established, both in the Framework and the Monitorable Indicators. Also, there is little discussion of the Farmer
Organizations and their achievements and issues, yet they are a core part of the project. However, in general, the
report is well presented and analyzed, and, overall, the ICR’s Quality was Satisfactory.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
