~~~'g-                 /   6'   &:T2
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPOf
Report No.:10691-GH           Type:  (SAR)
Title:   ENVIRONMENTAL  RESOURCE MANAGEFM                 Report So.  10691-GH
Author: HILL, IAN
Ext. :345o,6 Room:J5 177 Dept. :F4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 16, 1992
rn Africa Department
ulture Operations Division
I has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
luties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -       Cedi (C)
US$1.00          =      C395
C1,000           =      US$2.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)       =       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)             =       2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)           =       0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                =       3.28 feet (ft)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Ghana in March 1992,
comprising I. Hill (Mission Leader), Ms. C. Cook, Sociologist; C. Sow, Economist; K. Creighton,
Consultant Ecologist; J. Michael, Consultant Survey Specialist; and Y. Prevost (DANIDA Consultant
Information Specialist). Messrs. P. Stromgaard, DANIDA, S. Jensen, DANIDA, P. Dobie, ODA, and
Ms. P. Stone, ODA, also participated in the mission. Mr. F. Falloux was the lead advisor and Messrs.
J. English and S. Mink were the peer reviewers for the project. Messrs. J. Joyce and E. Lim are the
managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AgEngSD       Agricultural Engineering Services Department
CSIR          Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
CWMPOC    Coastal Wetlands Management Project Oparations Committee
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DGW          Department of Game and Wildlife
EAP          Environmental Action Plan
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
EPC          Environmental Protection Council
EPC/TS       Technical Secretariat of Environmental Protection Council
EQPOC        Environmental Quality Project Operations Committee
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization, United Nations
FE            Foreign Exchange
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GET           Global Environment Trust Fund
GIMPA         Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
GSC           Ghana Supply Commission
LAB           Institute of Aquatic Biology
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IUCN         International Union for Conservation of Nature (now World
Conservation Union)
LARC         Land Administration Research Center
L/C          Lands Commission
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LWMPOC    Land and Water Management Project Operations Committee
MFEP         Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLG          Ministry of Local Government
MLNR         Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MSD          Meteorological Services Department
NDPC         National Development Planning Commission
NEP          National Environmental Policy
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Overseas Development Administration, United Kingdom
OHCS         Office of the Head of the Civil Service
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PNDC         Provisional National Defense Council
RSAU         Remote Sensing Applications Unit
SIPOC        Studies and Investigations Project Operations Committee
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SRI          Soils Research Institute
TS           Technical Secretariat of Environmental Protection Council
UofG         University of Ghana
WRRI          Water Resources Research Institute
hs document has a restrcted distribudon and may be used by redpients only In te perwfoim   of
her offcial duties. Its contents may not oleise be disclosed without World Bank authoral=_



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Conter_s
Pag No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..........................                                    iii-v
I. INTRODUCTIQN ..........................1 
H.  THEENVIRONMENTAL SETrNG   ...................1.......... 
A.  Backgrourd  .................................1... 
B.  Environmental Resources ......        ......  ...................    2
C.  TheMain Environmental Issues ..................... ...    5
D.  The Major Causes of Environmental Degradation .....            ............   8
E.  The National Environmental Policy and Action Plan  .....          ..........  10
F.  Institutions ......................................                            11
G.  Bank Assistance Strategy for the Environment ......          .............  16
HIl. THE PROJECT  ...........................................   17
A.  Rationale and Objectives .........            .......................   17
B.  Project Design .     ......................................   18
C.  Summary Descripticn ..................................  19
D.  Detailed Features .      ....................................  20
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  ........                   ....................  26
A.  Project Cost Estimates .............. .         ...................  26
B.  Proposed Financing Plan  . ...............................  27
C.  Financial Implications for Government ........          ................  29
D.  Procurement ....................................                               29
E.  Disbursement .....................................   33
F.  Auditing and Reporting  . ................................  34
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                ................................   35
A.  Organization and Management .............................  35
B.  Project Management ...................................    36
C.  Project Implementation  .................................  38
D.  Project Supervision ....................................   43
E.  Technical Assistance ...................................  44
F.  Mid-Term and Completion Reviews  .........              ................  45
VI.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                   .........................   46
A.  Benefits andJustification  . ...............................   46
B.  Risks  ............................................    47
C.  Environmental Effects ..................................  48
D.  Impact on Women  ....................................   48
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .......                         ...............  48



- ii-
NNEXES
1.      Environmental Problenms, Impacts and Causes
2.      Land and Water Management
3.      National Environmental Action Plan
4.      Local Participation and the Role of Women
5.      Studies and Investigations
6.      Survey and Mapping
7.      Summary Cost Tables
8.      GEF Project Selection Criteria Reference Sheet
9.      Disbursement Schedule
10.      The Environmental Resource Management System
II.      Management Board of EPCITS. Membership and Terms of Reference
12.      Membership of Project Management Committees
13.      Project Implementation Schedule
14.      Training
15.      Project Supervision
16.      Technical Assistance and Local Consultancies
17.      Documents Available in Project File
GURWI
1.      Proposed Structure, EPC/TS
2.      Project Implementation Arrangements
APS
1.      Agro-Ecological Zones, IBRD 23827
2.      Coastal Wetlands Sites, IBRD 23746



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RE-)URCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Ih.oWer:            The Republic of Ghana
BNeneteidaries:     Ministries of Local Government, Lands and Natural Resources, and
Agriculture
Crllt Amount:       SDR 12.6 million (US$18.1 million equivalent)
Xuma:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect IMEdesUon: The project is designed to support the implementation of the
Government's Environmental Action Plan based on: (i) the inter-
sectoral nature of many environmental concerns; (ii) the fact that
many areas of GoverfLment are to be decentralized to District
Assemblies; (iii) the need to ensure that communities are involved in
decisions about the use of environmental resources; and (iv) the fact
that significant portions of the EAP are to be implemented through
planned or on-going sector-specific projects supported by IDA or
other external aid agencies, particularly in the forestry, urban,
industrial and energy sub-sectors. The project would use capabilities
in existing agencies, including NGOs, rather than attempting to create
a new central agency with responsibility for all environmental matters.
The main objectives of the project would be to put in place the
institutional and technical capabilities required for effective
environmental monitoring, policy formulation and coordination; to
support a pilot programn to combat soil degradation and erosion; and to
help to prevent further destriction of the fragile resource base in the
coastal zone, in which issues of global environmental concerns are
partly involved.
The project would be implemented over five years and would include
three main components: (1) Development of an Environmental
Resource Management System through: (i) Institutional support to the
Technical Secretariat of EPC (EPC/TS) to enable the Council to
undertake its coordinating, monitoring and regulatory functions, at
central and regional levels; (ii) Human Resource Development
including post-graduate education and training programs in
environmental management, for staff of EPC/TS and sectoral agencies
at central and district levels; (iii) Environmental Education based on
public awareness campaigns; and (iv) Development of a national
environmental information and monitoring system, providing



- iv -
information on environmnental quality, topography, land use, climate,
land suitability and land tenure. (2) Land Resources Management
would support a pUlot project for development of methodologies to
minimize land degradstion through the planning and sustainable
management of land by ,ommurAties and farmers. Th2e pilot project
would be devoted to cn-the-job training in a limited number of
villages, of rural sociologists and technical staff within MOA in:
methods of raising community awareness of land degradation; simple
diagnostic surveys to determine degradation problems; identification of
technical solutions that are acceptable to communities; and the lay-out
of necessary works in the field. A land management fund would be
used to provide incentives for farmers to adopt improved land
management practices in the short term, until the long-term benefits
become appar-nt. (3) Coastal Wetlands Management would provide
for the demarcation and management of five coastal wetland sites, the
Muni, Sakumo, Densu Delta, Songor, and Anlo/Keta lagoons, that are
recognized as sites of international importance as habitat for migratory
waterfowl. Inventory and monitoring of the ecology of the sites would
be coupled with public education programs and studies to identify
forms of development that would be compatible with preserving the
ecological integrity of the sites. External funding for this component
would be provided by the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET).
PJect BNenefits:    'MThe project would improve the management of environmental
resources by both Government and the people. It would improve the
availability of information required to make decisions, providing a
better understanding of the environmental consequences of courses of
action, and early warning of pollution or degradation. The project
would develop appropriate methods to involve people in the planning
and management of their own resou.ces in the coastal wetlands and
elsewhere, that could be used in wider national programs.
Elaha:              The main risk relates to the effectiveness of the proposed
environmental management -system to achieve effective inter-sectoral
action, but the project is designed to strengthen this process at national
and district levels. Risks are associated with the Land and Water
Management component as it involves innovative approaches, but the
pilot design allows fo.i gradual development of staff skills and
methodologies. Tnere is also the risk of a slowing down of econamic
growth that would adversely affect the project, but the National
Environmental Policy clearly expresses Government's commitment to
conservation and the sustainable use of the environment.
Ewnomi
Rate of ROM:        Economic rate of return calculations are not very meaningful as none
of the main activities lend themselves to conventional analysis and
would be inappropriate for the pilot land a.J water management
program.



Foreign        5dx            T2W
................. ........ ( US$ lollion).........
1. Development of Erv.ironmontal Resource
Management Systm
A. Env_omental Manaemt Developuent
- Institutionm Support to EPCiTS           3.1           2.2           5.3
- Human Resource Development               1.4           0.4           1.8
- Environmental Education                  0.3           0.S           0.8
Sub-Total                           4.8           3.1           7.9
B. Environmental Information Systca
Development
- Environmenta; .ddality                   1.4           0.6           2.0
- Topographic Base Information             3.8           0.6           4.4
- Presnt Land Use                          1.7           0.5           2.2
- Land Ownership                           0.4           0.2           0.6
- Meteorological Information              0.6            0.1           0.7
- Land Suitability                         0.4           0.1           0.5
Sub-Total                           8.3           2.1          10.4
2. Land and Water Management                      2.7           2.8           5.S
3. Coastal Wetlands Management                    2.2           4.0           6.2
Total Base Cost                                  18.0           12.0         30.0
Physical Contingencies                           1.2           0.7           1.9
Pice Contingencies                               1.9           2.1           4.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                            21.1           14.8         35.9
PRQMM MANCIG LA
.................. (Umillion).
WDA                                       14.1           4.0          18.1
GET                                        3.1           4.1           7.2
ODA (UK)                                   0.9            -            0.9
DANI)A                                     3.0           1.3           4.3
Government of Ghana /.                                   5.4           5.4
TOTAL                                     21.1           14.8         35.9
ESTIMATED IDA AND GMIF DISBURSEMENTS
al ear                        Em       E19    EY9    FY9    EY9    FY9
........................ (US$ millions).
IDA   Annual                  2.4    4.9    4.3    3.1    2.3    1.1
Cumulative             2.4    7.3    11.6   14.7   17.0   18.1
GET   Annual                  0.5    1.5    2.1    1.7    1.0    0.4
Cumulative             0.S    2.0    4.1    5.8    6.8    7.2
1/ Includes Duties and Taxes of $1.7 million.



GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCO
1.1    Severe droughts in Ghana during the late 1970s and early 1980s, coupled with the
extensive bushfires of 1983/34, heightened public awareness of environmental issues and ied
Government to intensify its efforts to tstablish envirommental policies. In 1987, work was
started on a National Conservation Strategy, and a draft National Environmental Protection
Program was also prepared in 1987, based on priorities identified through a series of regional
and district fora organized in 1986 and 1987. In 1988 Government initiated a major effort to
place environmental issues on its policy agenda and the Environmental Protection Council
(EPC) was charged with preparing a National Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and a
statement of National Environmental Policy (NEP). EPC involved a wide range of
government agencies, research institutes, NGOs and the private sector in discussions and
working groups, leading to the preparation of an EAP. The EAP has been approved by the
Committee of PNDC Secretaries.
1.2    The World Bank provided assistance to he EPC during the preparation of the EAP
through detailed discussions and a limited amount oI onsultant help. A mission in October
1990 assisted with the completion of the final draft of the EAP and discussed ways in which
further assistance could be provided for the implementation of the plar From a range of
possible options it was agreed that World Bank funding could be focused on institutional
support to the EPC, to enable it to fulfill its role as defined in the EAP; on the introduction of
improved land management practices, to reduce land degradation which was identified in the
EAP as the most important environmental problem facing the country; and on measures to
improve the management of areas of importance for the conservation of biodiversity,
particularly in the coastal wetlands. The core of the project is the development of an effective
system for the management of environmental resources in Ghana, that will involve
communities as well as government institutions in the planning, implementation and
monitoring of the sustainable use of environmental resources.
I. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SElTING
A. Background
2.1   :M E=QnoMy. Inappropriate macro-economic policies and weak overall economic
management resulted in negligible growth in the Ghanaiau economy during the 1970s. The
situation worsened in the early 1980s as real GDP declined at an average annual rate of
5 percent. The adoption of the Economic Recovery Program in 1983 reversed this decline.
Macro-economic adjustment and prudent economic policies, including the devaluation of the
Cedi, have resulted in an annual average growth in real GDP of about 6 percent from 1983 to



1990. There has been a corresponding improvement in the balance of payments. Over the
medium-term, the Government's adjustment program aims at a real GDP growth of at least
5 percent per annum, with even higher growth rates now being targeted. A significant role is
envisaged for the private sector in the economy, througli investment in production, processing
and marketing In all sections of the economy. 'lxis would be paralleled by divestiture of
state-owned enterprises, continued liberalization of the exchange rate, rat,onalization of trade,
tariff and tax policies, improved public sector management and the maintenance ef positive
al interest rates to encourage investment and mobilize domestic savings.
2.2    Poulaion. The present population of Ghana is estimated to be approximately 15
million, increasing at a rate of more than 3 percent per annum with a populatior. projected to
be almost 20 million in the Year 2000. Population density averages 631km2, though there are
marked regional variations, from 17 persons/km2 in the Northern Region to 116 persons/km2
in the Centrai Region. Much higher densities occur locally, especially in the Upper East
Region and in areas around Kumasi, Cape Coast and Accra, where densities exceed 400
persons/km2. More than 30 percent of the population lives in urban areas of 5,000 inhabitants
or more. Agriculture employs more than 60 percent of the labor force.
B. Envirenmental Resources
2.3    Agro-Ecological Zones. Ghana. with a total land area of 23.9 million ha, can be
divided into six main agro-ecological zoi .s as shown on Map 1. Rainfall and the length of
growing season for each of the zones are summarized below.
Agro-Ecological      Rainfall    Length of Growing          Period (Days)
ZoE,              (mm)             Season         Humid 1/       Growing 2/
Coastal Savanna       800                             50-60         100-110
Rain Forest           2200            Major          100-120        150-160
Minor             80             100
Deciduous Forest      1500            Major          100-120        150-160
Minor             70             90
Transition            1300                           180-190        200-220
Guinea Savanna        1100                           120-140        180-200
Sudan Savanna         1000                            90-100         151'-160
1/ Rainfall > Potential Evapotranspiration (PErT.
2/ Begins when rainfaD > 0.5 PET, ends wher. rainfal < 0.5 PET
2.4    Topgraphy. Almost the whole of Ghana lies below 500m elevation and over half is
under 150 m. Undulating to flat terrain predominates, with slopes mainly less than 5 percent.
Isolated valley bottoms and flood plains are flat. Despite the predominantly gentle slopes, the
degradation or removal of vegetation means that about 70 percent of the country is subject to
moderate or severe erosion.



2.5    Soils. The predominant soils of the forest zone kInown as Forest Oxysols and
Ochrosolc (Acrisols and Nitosols 1/) are characterized by deep weathering, kaolinitic clay
minerals, leaching of nutrients, and acidity. Further north, the savanna ochrosols (Nitosols)
have many morphological shimiarities to the soils ^f the forest zone, but they are gekierally
less leached and less acid. Their nutrient status is no better and they have less organic ma Iir
in the surface horizons. Another important group of soils occurring In the savanna, the
Groundwater Laterites (Plinthic Ferralsols) have much poorer physical charanteristics due to
the presence of concretionary gravel, and commonly occur in a complex mosaic with very
shallow soils developed over lateritic ironpan. Sandy surface horizons and low or transient
organic matter content are common to most of these soils. The coastal savanna has a comnlex
of heavy textured soils and within all zones, poorly drained soils occur along river valleys.
Two characteristics common to most of the soils are .'particular significance: low fertility
and poor water holding capacity. The low fettility resulis from the leached kaoliniti:. nature
of the predominant clay minerals, compounded by the low organic matter content. Poor
water holding capacity results from the sandy textures and poor structure, particularly of the
surface horizons, again exacerbated by the low organic matter content.
2.6    Land Use and Land Suitability. Reliable data on land use in Ghana are not available,
but the best available estimates are summarized below. They show that only about 12 percent
of the land is presently cultivated, though the area of annual crops includes only the area
cultivated in a particular year, and does not include the land in the present cultivation cycle,
that is, the area of fallow that may be cultivated one year in three or more.
Crop                 Area ('000 ha)    Crop                   Area ('000 ha)
Maize                  2,840           Yam                      2,780
Sorghum                2,780           Cassava                  2,840
Rice Upland              200           Cocoyam/Plantain          140
Rice Lowland           1,880           Groundnuts/Cowpea        2,840
Cocoa                  2,560           Cotton/Tobacco           2,780
Oil Palm/Rubber/Coffee    2,940        Coconut                   380
2.7    An assessment of the suitability of land for the major crops grown in Ghana using
principles laid down by FAO, and resource information compiled by the Soils Research
Institute in the early 1970s shows that there is a potential to expand the area of any one of
these crops, even assuming only the inost suitable soils are used. Ho&wever, as good lend is
frequently suitable for more than one use areas derived from the data are not mutnally
exclusive.
2.8    Farming Systems. Agriculture in Ghana is predominantly smallholder, traditional
and rainfed. Farming systems have developed over time as adaptations to the major agro-
ecological zo ies in the country at a time when population was sparse and land abundant.
Commop. fact rs are the use of bush fallows to restore fertility, mixed cropping to minimize
risks and the widespread integration of livestock into the farming system, particularly in the
[1     Soil classes refer to the Ghana National Soil Clussification System. Equivalent nomenclature in the
UNESCO/FAO Legend to the Soil Map of the World is shown in parntheses.



-4 -
north. Women play an important role in Ghanaian. agricu!ture, and often make decisions
about the type and area of crop to be planted, as well as having a key role in weeding,
harvesting and processing. In the forest zor. tree crops, mainly cocoa, oil palm, coffee and
rubber are of particular Importance. The food crops in this area are mainly inter-cropped
mixtures of maize, plantain, cocoyam and cassava. The transition zone is characterized by
mixed or sole cropping of maize, legumes, cocoyam or yam, with tobacco and cotton the
predominant cash crops. Further north in the savanna zone, the food crops are mainly
sorghum, maize, cowpea and yam, giving way in the drier areas to sorghum, millet and
cowpeas. Rice is loLally important in all zones, grown in seasonally flooded valley bottoms.
There is little use of purchased inputs and land preparation is manual in most areas, though
ox-plowing Is Important in areas of the north. These traditional farming systems are being
modified in response to increasing population, mainly through a shortening of the fallow
period, with adverse effects on soil fertility, as discussed in Section C of this chapter.
2.9    Water Resour. There are abundant surface water resources in Ghana derived from
the Volta catchment area, of which about 40 percent lies witdin Ghana, and from five other
major river systems in the country. The estimated consumptive use in th Year 2000 is less
than 5 percent of the available water, so there is clearly no shortage, in terms of the volume,
of. surface water. The availability of this water for human and livestock consumption and for
irrigation is more limited, because of its distribution. Water for drinking is a major constraint
in many parts of northern Ghana, despite past programs for the construction of dams and
water poirms. Groundwater supplies are also limited as sho% n by data from Ot xr 8,000
boreholes of an average depth of about 40 m, which indicate low yields of only two to three
liters per second.
2.10   Forest ResouMrc. Ghana's forests include both tropical rain forest, deciduous forest
and savanna woodlands. Deforestation has reduced the rain forest areas from about 8.2
million ha at the turn of the ventury to an estimated 2.1 million ha today. Deforestation
continues at an estimated rate of 72,000 ha per annum. This is mainly due to encroachment
by farmers into forested land, though it is in part due to exploitation for timber and the
present annual cut far exceeds the sustainable cut of 1.1 million m3. There are about 9.4
million ha of savanna woodlands which are exploited for firewood and poles. About 2.7
million ha, or  1I perce¢t of the land area, have been gazetted as forest reserves, of which
about two thirds are in the rain forest. Most of the unreserved forests have been severely
degraded and even within the forest reserves, selective logging is leading to degradation.
Non-timber forest products are of considerable importance, in particular, fuelwood and
charcoal, which account for more than 80 percent of total energy consumption, but forest
products are also used in the manufacture of a wide range of household utensils and fumiture,
and as a source of traditional medicines. 'Bushmeat" is an important source of protein in the
diet of both rural and urban Ghanaians.
2.11   Wildlife and Biodiversity. Alteration of forest and woodland habitats combined with
destructive hunting has seriously depleted Ghana's once rich wildlife resources. An extensive
system of parks and reserves has been established in an attempt to preserve the remaining
wildlife. There are at present about 1.2 million ha of protected areas in national parks, nature
reserves and wildlife sanctuaries distributed in all the main ecological zones of the countrv.
Management plans for all these reserves are being prepared with the assistance of the World
Conservation Union, formerly the International Union for Conservation in Nature (IUCN),
with funding from the IDA supported Forestry project. There is a growing awareness of the



ecological importance of coastal lagoons, marshes and swamps but there are, at present, no
coastal wetland resetves.
2.12    The ecological importance of coastal wetland sites has been systematically evaluated
with regard to their international significance for migratory shorebirds and waders. Research
on bird movements has been undertaken since 1985 by local survey teams from the Save the
Seashore Birds Project, Ghana, with support from the British Royal Society for Protection of
Birds. Five of the coastal wetland sites (see Map 2) provide sanctuary for over 80 percent of
the migratory waterfowl stopping in Ghana, with a minimum estimate of peak populations of
over 100,000 birds. The sites rorm a network of resting and feeding grounds for more than
seventy species and represent the fourth largest known concentration of -migratory waders and
shorebirds on the West African coast. All five sites meet criteria as sites of international
importance as waterfowl habitat under the Ramsar Convention, Z/ as they regularly harbor
more than 1 percent of the estimated Atlantic Flyway populations of three to nine species of
long distance migrants.
2.13    Fisheries Resources. Ghana has important marine, lake and river fishing resources
and the potential for expansion of aquaculture. About 80 percent of the 250,000 to 330,000
tons of marine fish landed each year are by artisanal fishermen. Industrial fishing includes
substantial catches of tuna. Some 30,000 fishermren exploit the Volta Lake using traditional
methods but there is little data on the total catch or the sustainability of increased production.
2.14    Mineral Resources. Ghana has important reserves of gold and bauxite; known
deposits of manganese ore have been almost exhausted and proven diamond reserves are
limited. Gold is mined in large underground and dredging operations as well as artisanal
surface, or near surface operations. Salt is produced from evaporation of sea water in several
coastal areas.
C. The Main Environmental Issues
2.15    The main environmental issues in Ghana can be grouped into resource- or location-
specific problems. The former include issues affecting land and water resources throughout
the country, though there are particular issues related to the coastal zone. Location-specific
problems are commonly related to industrial and mining activities, or to human setlements.
The nature of these problems, their impact and causes are summarized in matrix form in
Annex 1.
a/      The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat is commonly
referred to as the Ramsaf Convention as it was formulated in Ramsar, Iran. Ghana signed the
Convention in 1988. The provisions of the Convention include agreements that: wetlands to be included
in a List of Wetlands of International Imn ortance, maintained by the Ramsar Secortariat, would be
demarcated; planning would promote the conservation of the wedands and their wise use; research
would be encouraged; and personnel would be trained in wetland management, research and wardening.
Registration of a site under the Convention does not preclude development, but is a recognition that any
developmeat should be compatible with sustained use of the environmental resources.



-6-
2.16        ada        . This includes both the degradation of soils through erosion and
the loss of structure and fertility, and degradation of vegetation through deforestation and
overuse. The two problems are inter-related and represent the most serious environmental
problem facing the country, in terms of their economic impact and the area and number of
people they affect. A report prepared as part of the formulation of the Environmental Action
Plan, I/ estimated losses due to land degradation amounted to almost 4 percent of total GDP
in 1988. Data constraints may mean that this is an over-estimate but it indicates the
significant impact that land degradation has on the economy. Soil fertility is dependent on
complex inter-relationships between chemical and physical properties. Nutrient reserves are
either very low because of the highly weathered nature of the underlying rocks, or because
they occur below the rooting zone. Most of the available nutrients are, in fact, linked to the
soil organic matter, which provides the only means by which essential nutrients can be
retained in the rooting zone. At the same time, soil organic matter plays a key role in
maintaining soil physical characteristics. Loss of organic matter results in the deterioration of
structure, reduced water holding capacity, reduced infiltration rates, surface crusting and
compaction, leading to increased run-off and erosion. Under Ghanaian conditions, loss of
organic matter is extremely rapid, once the vegetation has been cleared, irrespective of soil
type. The long fallow periods of traditional farming systems allowed for regeneration of soil
organic matter, but the recent decline in the fallow period in many parts of Ghana has serious
consequences for the maintenance of soil organic matter and consequently for land
degradation.
2.17   Loss of vegetation results from land clearing for new farmland and the practice of
using fire to clear fallow land prior to cultivation. Even where forest or woodland is not
completely cleared, degradation takes place as a result of selective logging for timber and the
extraction of firewood, charcoal and poles. Over-grazing in savanna woodlands, coupled with
bushfires lit to promote new growth, means a reduction or elimination of valuable browse
species and nutritious grasses. One important reason for the increasing vegetative degradation
is the breakdown of traditional enforcement mechanisms for conserving common property
resources.
2.18   The most important types of land degradation in Ghana that result from the factors
discussed above are: erosion, both sheet and gully erosion, with localized wind erosion; soil
degradation reflected in declining soil fertility and soil physical deterioration, with localized
areas of soil salinity; vegetative degradation, in both rangeland and forests, and deforestation;
and degradation due to changes in the hydraulic regime in wetlands, or due to siltation,
flooding or coastal erosion. These types and their immediate causes are summarized in
Table 1, Annex 2. Most of the degradation problems have on-site causes and effects; whilst
flooding and siltation have off-site effects, in Ghana, these are location specific and of much
less importance than the more widespread on-site effects of erosion and soil and vegetation
degradation.
2.19   Although little attention has been paid to land management over the past two decades,
early attempts to deal with the problems date from the 1930s, when mixed farming with ox-
cultivation on the contour and promotion of compost making were initiated. During the 1950s
Convery, F.J. and Tutu, K.A. 'Evaluating the Costs of Environmental Degradation in Ghana." 1990.
Environmental Protection Council, Accra.



-7 -
Government set up seven Land Use Planning Areas in the savanna zone, with machine-built
terracing, contour planting, controlled grazing and mixed farming. Little remains to be seen
of these initiatives. Community forestry and agro-forestry programs have been started with
World Bank and FAO assistance but it is too early to know how successful they may be.
There have also been attempts to introduce conservation on tractor cultivated lands, but t!'.s
was restricted to a number of large farms. Traditional methods of conservation include,
above all, bush fallowing, but also contoured stone lines, stone-faced terracing, retention of
nitrogen fixing trees and compound farming. Research in soil and water management began
in 1971 and has provided information on runoff, soil losses and grain yields, though virtually
all the work has been done on station.
2.20   On the basis of these experiencfs and research in Ghana and similar agro-ecological
zones in West Africa, it is possible to identify a number of possible solutions to the main
degradation problems. These can be grouped into: soil fertility enhancing technologies, such
as alley cropping, the use of woody fallows, the planting of fodder banks and the introduction
of animals into the farming system; water and soil conservation technologies such as
mulching, ridging, strip cropping, construction of stone lines and the use of Vetiver grass
hedges; biomass enhancing technologies such as farm forestry and private or community
woodlots. Out of a total of twenty five alternative technoiogies, fifteen were considered likely
to be adopted by farmers and communities in various social and agro-ecological conditions in
Ghana. These fifteen technologies are presented in Annex 2 together with the results of an
analysis of their financial and economic returns. The results show that few of the
technologies provide attractive financial returns to farmers, in the first three years, whilst all
but four demonstrate an attractive economic rate of return.
2.21   The reasons for the divergence between financial and economic returns are many, but
most result from market or policy failure. However, examples of major policy failures in
Ghana are now relatively few, so that adjustments to macroeconomic or other policies cannot
be seen as bringing about large-scale improvements in land management. Another reason
may be the availability of credit, though few of the technologies being considered are capital
intensive. Where externalities play a major role, such as in the case of reservoir
sedimentation, there may be scope for internalizing them through a watershed approach to
improved management, but as discussed above, such cases are localized and of less
importance than the on-site effects of degradation. Providing incentives to farmers and
communities to adopt improved land management practices in the short-term, until the long-
term benefits become apparent, can be justified on the grounds of timeliness and cost-
effectiveness. Timeliness is of the essence as land degradation can rapidly lead to irreversible
decline in soil fertility and eventually to total loss of the soil, so action is required in the
inimediate future. Secondly, from amongst a number of options to maintain or increase
production, such as fertilizer or seed, improved land management is cost effective, not only
ber,ause there are few recurrent costs associated with maintaining the adopted technologies,
but also because it provides a basis for more efficient use of other purchased inputs, for
example better response to fertilizer on terraced areas due to a better soil moisture regime.
2.22   Water Pollution. Water use is virtually unregulated so there is little if any effort to
conserve this resource. Deforestation and reduction in vegetative cover, coupled with
cultivation close to river and stream banks, have significant impacts on runoff and stream
flow with marked seasonal extremes, exacerbated by conversion of wetlands for rice
cultivation. High runoff rates reduce water infiltration and aquifer recharge, with lowering of



the water table. These factors, combined with uncontrolled discharge of waste water, pose
significant threats to human health in rural and urban areas. The major pollutants are human
and animal excreta, though untreated industrial and mining effluents are of localized
Importance. Water-borne and water-related diseases such as guinea worm, typhoid,
diarrhoea, dysentery, malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis are common in rural areas.
Aquatic weeds are also affect water supplies in some areas.
2.23   Coastal Zone and Marine Resources. The coastal zone is of particular environmental
concern because it Is the most densely populated part of the country with a high concentration
of urban and industrial centers. About 60 percent of Ghana's industrial establishments are
located in the Accra-Tema area. There is only a limited capacity to cope with the human and
industrial wastes generated in this area, constituting a threat to the fragile coastal ecosystems.
Of particular significance is the impact of development on the coastal wetlands, a series of
lagoonal areas which provide unique ecological conditions and habitats for large populations
of migratory waterfowl. The largest lagoons lie at the mouth of the Volta River, where the
construction of the Akosombo and Kpong dams have radically altered the hydrology,
morphology and ecology of the estuarine region. Exploitation of marine fish resources also
impacts on the coastal zone, most directly through the demand for fuelwood for artisanal fish-
smoking enterprises that has lead to extensive felling of trees in and beyond the coastal zone.
Urban fuelwood demand has also contributed to tree felling in the coastal zone.
2.24   Industrial and Mining Activities. Air, water and noise pollution caused by industrial
and mining activities have a localized impact and have not yet assumed very seriolus
dimensions. However, the quantity and diversity of industrial wastes has increased zver the
years, particularly in the Accra-Tema area. The main polluters are the textile, food and
beverage, petroleum refining and mineral exploitation and processing industries. The major
air polluters are the aluminum smelter and alumina conveyancing (fluorides, sulfur dioxide
alumina dust), the oil refinery (sulfur dioxide), cement and asbestos plants (asbestos particles
and cement dust), the steel works (iron oxides), sawmills and wood processing plants (dust),
gold mines (arsenic oxides, antimony oxides, sulfur dioxide), and bauxite and manganese
mines (dust). Major water polluters are the breweries, textile mills and mines.
D. The Major Causes of Environmental Degradation
2.25   Many of the direct causes of environmental degradation have been noted in the
previous Section and are summarized in Annex 1. There are commonly complex inter-
relationships between these direct causes, which are often the result of equally complex
linkages between underlying factors and forces. The main underlying causes are also
presented in Annex 1 and discussed briefly below.
2.26 Population. The needs of Ghana's rapidly expanding population (para. 2.2) have
been met largely by unsustainable exploitation of the available and accessible natural
resources. This !s reflected both in the shortened fallow periods and expansion into
previously uncultivated areas. The problems of rapid growth in the total population are
exacerbated by its uneven distribution, both within rural areas and concentration through
rural-urban migration. Over half the population live in the Greater Accra, Eastern, Central
and Ashanti Regions, though there are densely setiled areas in the Upper East and Volta



-9-
Regions. It is in such areas that population pressure is taxing the resiliency of the
environment as traditional systems of sustainable resource use break down. The rapid
increase in the population of urban areas, in whiceh the development of urban infrastructure
has been inadequate, has also lead to pollution and degradation of the urban enviLonment.
2.27   Poverty. Income Distribution and Gender Issues. About half the population of Ghana
is estimated to live in absolute poverty, and two thirds live in households in which the per
capita consumption is less than 60 percent of the national average. 4/ Poverty is a strong
impediment to adopting new practices or products that may be less damaging to the
environment. Investing in conservation, whether it be planting a tree, rather than cutting one
for fuelwood, or adopting improved land management practices to maintain soil fertility,
require investments in capital or labor which thet poor may not be able to make. Skewed
income distribution, in which the wealthy are more able to make such investments or secure
services, means that the poor are more likely to continue to exploit the available resources in
an unsustainable manner.
2.28   An absolute majority of farmers in Ghana are women, who account for about
70 percent of food crop production. Over half the adults in the agricultural labor force are
women. Working age men continue to leave their villages to look for work in urban areas, or
to establish cocoa farms elsewhere, leaving women to manage farms on their own. Facing
severe constraints of labor, credit and access to improved technology, women have little
choice but to continue with low-input traditional farming systems, which, as the fallow period
decreases, are not sustainable in the long term and lead to severe land degradation.
2.29   Land Tenure. Major differences in the land tenure system in Ghana can be
distinguished between the Akan cultural group, who live mainly in southern Ghana, and the
non-Akans, who live in the north and east, though there are many local variations. The
Akans have a matrilineal inheritance system, where land is inherited by one person from the
lineage of the deceased, first maternal brothers and then uterine nephews. Rights of
ownership have become more acutely defined as land acquired an exchange value, for
example, where it had been planted with cocoa, so that a sister can now inherit the land of a
deceased brother, when previously it would have passed to a male heir. Land traditionally
belonged to the community and individuals had only usufructuary rights, with a number of
different arrangements including share cropping arrangements and cash rental. Tree tenure is
often distinct from land tenure. In northern and eastern Ghana, the non-Akan people have a
patrilineal system of land tenure. The first clan or group to settle in an area claims ownership
of the land and the eldest male member of the clan, allocates land to individuals within the
group, who become the permanent owners. Land is divided amongst the male heirs and
women have few rights to land, except as members of a household. Rights to the use of trees
or tree products are also commonly determined by the head of the clan and his permission
must be sought before trees are planted. In both the south and the north of Ghana the
flexibility of land tenure systems in responding to changes in the socio-economic environment
is noticeable. Communal land ownership is also gradually disappearing and fewer individuals
acquire land through allocation from a communal pool.
4/     Boateng, E. 0. WA Poverty Profile for Ghana, 1987-88." Social Dimensions of Adjustment in Sub-
Saharan Africa, Working Paper No. 5, World Bank. 1990.



- 10-
2.30   An important aspect of these traditional tenurial systems is that no adult member of
the community can be denied the right to clear land for farming that has not been assigned to
another member of the community. Following very rapid population growth, this has been a
major cause of rapid deforestation and subsequent degradation. Increasing rural-rural
migration also means that there is an increasing number of "strangers" who may be permitted
to farm comraunity land, but have no long-term rights of ownership and hence no incentive to
conserve land resources. This is further accentuated by the fact that "strangers" rarely have
the right to plant trees, or if they plant them, often have difficulty in transferring their
ownership to family members. In addition, de facto open access conditions have replaced the
traditional arrangements for management of common property. For example, members of a
community could hunt freely within the community land, but "strangers" had to be
accompanied by a community member and make payment in kind to the local chief. The
breakdown of this system has lead to unregulated hunting, over-exploitation of the wildlife
resource and commonly the destruction of wildlife habitats. Perceptions of resources such as
water, grazing and forest products as free goods is a major underlying cause of pollution and
resource degradation.
2.31   Land Management Policies. Effective management of land is dependent on policies
related to the allocation of land between major uses or sectors, and the manner in which land
is exploited within its allocated sector. The critical importance of land use planning has long
been recognized in Ghana, and Government established a Land Use Planning Committee in
1978. Although Government, through the Lands Commission, has control of land allocation,
there is no overall policy and over two dozen departments and agencies are involved in
various aspects of land management. The lack of adequate national or local land use planning
capabilities, compounded by the lack of an up-to-date assessment of land suitability, is most
readily apparent in the coastal zone, where often incompatible land uses compete with each
other. It is also apparent in the rapid settlement and clearing of remaining forested areas
without regard for their suitability for farming. The absence of mechanisms to consider the
spatial aspects of national or local development plans in a systematic way means that there is
no means of ensuring that developiaient is located in the least environmentally sensitive areas,
or that programs to minimize environmental degradation can be geographically focused.
2.32   Other Factors. A number of other factors contribute to the underlying causes of
environmental degradation. They include institutional weaknesses, which are discussed in
more detail later in this Chapter, and limited public awareness of environmental issues. Lack
of understanding of the adverse effects of production systems or consumption patterns limits
the development of popular demand for environmentai protection and benign technologies.
E. The National Environmental Policy and Action Plan
2.33   The National Environmental Policy is set out in detail in the Environmental Action
Plan (EAP). Its aim is to ensure the improvement and maintenance of a high quality of life
for present and future generations of Ghanaians, through the sustainable management of
environmental resources. Specifically, the policy seeks to: (i) maintain ecosystems and
ecological processes essential for the functioning if the biosphere; (ii) ensure sound
management of natural resources and the environment; (iii) adequately protect humans,
animals and plants, their biological communities and habitats against harmful impacts and



- I1 -
destructive practices, and preserve biological diversity; (iv) guide development in accordance
with quality requirements to prevent, reduce, and as far as possible, eliminate pollution and
nuisances; (v) integrate environmental considerations in sectoral structural and socio-
economic planning at the national, regional, district and grass-roots levels; (vi) seek
common solutions to environmental problems in West Africa, Africa and the world at large.
2.34   The policy is based on the following principles: (a) optimum sustainable yield in the
use of resources and ecosystems; (5) use of the most cost-effective means to achieve
enviromnental objectives; (c) use of incentives in addition to regulatory measures;
(d) delegation of decision-making and action to the most appropriate level of Government;
(e) polluter pays for the cost of preventing and eliminating pollution and nuisances caused by
him; (f) public participation in environmental decision-making; (g) international cooperation.
2.35   The Environmental Action Plan provides a framework for interventions deemed
necessary to safeguard the environment. The EAP indicates Government's commitment to
policy, planning, legislative and institutional actions related to land resource management,
forestry and wildlife, water management, marine and coastal ecosystems, human settlements,
and pollution control. These actions are summarized in Annex 3.
F. Institutions
2.36   Environmental Protection Council (EPC). The EPC is the agency with responsibility
for national enviromnental policy formulation and the coordination of activities relating to the
environment. The role of the EPC, as defined in the EAP, is to ensure that development
plans take account of environmental concerns through Environmental Impact Assessments
(EIA) and that there is regular monitoring of environmental quality; the EPC is also to assist
with law enforcement where necessary and public information and non-formal education
programs. It is recognized that the EPC can only fulfill this role with the cooperation of
sectoral agencies responsible for implementation of programs that affect the environment.
2.37   The Council is headed by an Executive Chairman, the PNDC Deputy Secretary for
Local Government presently holding the post in an acting capacity. The Council has a
membership of 20, appointed by Government and representing ministries, universities,
research institutes and the private sector. The Council is presently served by a Research and
Program Section, organized under a Director of Programs and a Secretary, who report
directly to the Executive Chairman. The Council is advised by technical committees dealing
with Human Settlements, Natural Ecosystems, Environmental Education, Toxic Chemicals,
Industrial Pollution, Marine and Coastal Ecosystems and Water Managemer Each
committee is served by a technical officer from EPC. Nut all the committees have met
regularly due to a lack of funds and, more importantly, a clear mechanism to ensure that
committee recommendations are acted on.
2.38   Staffing. There are a total of 219 established posts in EPC, though only 108 are
filled. The numbers of scientific, administrative and support staff are summarized below.



- 12 -
No. of Staff
Established Posts                 In Post
Technical       Admin          Technical     Admin
Total                 68             151              37           71
More than half of all technical staff are graduates of which about ten hold post-graduate
masters or doctoral qualifications. Conditions of service are linked to the pay scales applied
to university and research staff in the CSIR institutes, which are higher than those paid to
regular government employees. Promotion is based on the same criteria as applied to
research and scientific officers in CSIR.
2.39   Budggt. EPC has operated on a limited budget over the past few years. Figures for
the period 1989-1991 are summarized below.
Expenditure                    Budget Allocation (US$S000
Categgry                  198           1990           1291
Capital                    92            468            142
Salaries                   90            124            163
Operational expenses       21             53            33
TOTAL                     203            645            338
About 50 percent of the total budget is devoted to salaries. The high capital expenditure in
1990 was for the EPC headquarters building. Operational expenses are limited and form an
important constraint to the effective functioning of the organization.
2.40   Facilities. The EPC is presently housed in offices within the Ministry of Science and
Industry and in a number of rooms in a partially completed building that has been designated
for eventual EPC use. Although the number of staff in post is well below the number of
established posts, office accommodation is extremely limited, with several staff sharing small
rooms. A detailed inventory of equipment and furniture shows that although most staff at
least have a desk to sit at, there is a shortage of office furniture such as filing cabinets,
storage cupboards and book shelves. Donor funds have been used to provide three desk-top
computers and peripherals with a limited image processing capability and there are two other
PCs for word-processing. The EPC has a total of eight vehicles including a cinema van.
2.41   National Planning Authorities. Environmental management must be set in the context
of national development plans, and two agencies have responsibilities for national
development planning. These are the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP)
and the National Development Planning Commission (NDPC), though the NDPC has only
recendy been established and its role is still evolving. However, both agencies are involved
with cross-sectoral issues and priorities and the balance between sectors. Whilst both are
committed to achieving national development objectives, the difference is one of emphasis.
MFEP is primarily concerned with the budget and hence the ways and means of achieving



- 13 -
objectives, whilst NDPC is concerned with planning and formulation of objectives and
strategies. In addition to formulating and advising Government on a comprehensive national
development strategy, NDPC is charged with preparation of a national land use plan, though
NDPC does not presently have the resources to undertake this broad mandate.
2.42   Seoral Agencies. A number of Ministries and Government agencies have
respornsibilities for activities that affect the environment. The Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources (MLNR) is responsible for policy formulation and for the implementation and
supervision of natural resource utilization, conservation and management programs.
Departments of Forestry, Lands, Game and Wildlife, and Mines are responsible for the
national forestry programs, wildlife management and the control of mineral exploitation. The
Survey, Geological Survey and Meteorological Office collect and publish natural resource
data. Planning and management of agricultural land use, including livestock, irrigation and
fisheries, is primarily the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to its own
Departments, the Ministry oversees a number of para-statal agpncies responsible for specific
commodities or activities. Other Ministries whose activities impact on the environment
include the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Local Government, in which the Town
and Country Planning Department is responsible for the regulation of urban development.
The Ministry of Health has an important role to play in setting and enforcing standards for
public health. Research is organized through the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, administratively within the Ministry of Science and Technology, whilst the
universities are involved in both teaching and research related to environmental issues. The
agencies most directly concerned with environmental information are first described briefly
below. The Departments in the Ministry of Agriculture that are responsible for land and
water management are then identified, the mandate and functioning of the Game and Wildlife
Department, MLNR is discussed, and finally other government institutions involved in
environmental management are described.
2.43   Survey Department. The mandate of the Survey Department is to provide and
maintain a geodetic network, topographic mapping, and a cadastral framework, and the
demarcation of regions of special interest. The ability of the Survey Department to deliver
these services has been severely constrained by large budget shortfalls and present capabilities
are limited to conventional surveys and analog mapping. The conventional surveys are slow,
labor intensive, and expensive because of lack of up-to-date survey and computing equipment.
Drafting capabilities are limited to fair-drawing with pen and ink and photomechanical
reproduction is limited to one-to-one scale contact work and manual film processing. Printing
capabilities have recently been improved with the purchase of a high capacity two-color offset
press, but capacity is limited by plate making facilities. All activities are frequently
constrained by lack of materials.
2.44   The Survey Department is understaffed as the current staffing level is approximately
25 percent of the formal establishment. However, there appears to be a sizeable cadre of
trained technical staff, the majority of whom have been trained through the Ghana Survey
School and over 40 have received training overseas. The Department is strongest in survey
skills and weakest in mapping. Photogrammetric experience is limited to large-scale urban
mapping and there are no facilities for aerial triangulation. There has been no involvement in
quantitative spatial analysis or automated mapping.



- 14 -
2.45 University of Ghana (UofG). The Department of Geography and Resource
Development in the UofG established a Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSAU) in 1986 to
undertake research into land and water resources appraisal and monitoring, and support the
teaching programs of the environment and resource based departments. Finance was provided
by DANIDA and UNDP, and technical assistance by the Geographic Institute, University of
Copenhagen. Government approved funds for construction of a new b'_.k to house the unit
and part of it is completed and in use. Members of staff of the Department have acquired
some expertisp in the interpretation of remote sensing imagery and undertaken analysis of
pilot areas.
2.46   Soil Research Institute (SRI). The SRI is responsible for national soil surveys and is
receiving support to fulfill that mandate through the World Bank funded National Agricultural
Research Project. Interpretation of soils information in terms of land suitability requires the
collaboration of agricultural scientists from other institutes, in particular the Crops Research
Institute. Although land suitability maps were produced in 1972 at a scale of 1:2 million,
more detailed and updated maps are required. The SRI has been constrained by a lack of
operational funds, though there is a cadre of experienced and qualified staff.
2.47   Meteorological Services Department (MSD). Lack of funes has also affected the
ability of the MSD to provide meteorological information to other agencies, even though data
has been regularly collected over many years. The lease for computer equipment used to
manage meteorological records could not be maintained and older punchcard records were
discarded. Support from the World Meteorological Organization enabled the MSD to install
three computers, peripherals and software to manage collected data and to train staff ir. their
use. Not all the equipment is fully operational due to problems of supply and installation.
Although a Data Management Division has been established with a supervisor oii secondment
from the Statistical Services Department and some data has been entered, the MSD does not
have the staff and equipment to transfer the backlog of data to computer or to provide
analyses of the data.
2.48   Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Ministry has a major role to play in many
aspects of land management, with three of its six Departments having the main responsibilities
for implementation. These include the Departments of Crop Services, Agricultural
Engineering Services and Extension. The Department of Extension is being strengthened with
support from a World Bank funded National Agricultural Extension Project, which will
improve the ability of extension staff to provide advice to farmers. The Department of Crop
Services is responsible for providing technical guidance to extension staff, both through the
services of Subject Matter Specialists and by undertaking adaptive trials managed by the
MOA. The Deparunent is presently divided into six Divisions, for Agronomy, Horticulture,
Soil Fertility and Plant Nutrition, Soil Conservation and Water Management, Plant Protection
and Regulatory Services, and Post-Harvest Development. The Soil Conservation and Soil
Fertility Divisions are to be amalgamated to form a Soil and Water Management Division.
An FAO sponsored Agro-Forestry Project is presently managed by the Agronomy Division
but when existing donor financing arrangements end, these activities would be transferred to
the new Soil and Water Management Division. In 1991, the Department had 83 graduate
staff and 58 with a Diploma in Agriculture, the majority of whom were posted to the ten
regional offices. The role of the Department of Agricultural Engineering Services has
changed in recent years from a concentration on Government subsidized tractor plowing



^ is -
services, which are no longer provided, to a focus on testing and extension of mechanization,
including animal traction.
2.49 Department of Game and Wildlife (DGW) - MLNR. Th.is Department has the
responsibility for management of national parks, strict nature reserves, wildlife sanctuaries
and game production areas. It is also responsible for management of wildlife in forest and
biosphere reserves and for nationwide enforcement of laws and regulations relating to hunting
or capture of wildlife. The Department has 19 professional staff in post, from an
establishment of 73. One professional has had foreign training in wetlands management and
one in conservation education. There are 36 technical staff and about 230 other staff in the
Department. Fifty 8 percent of all established posts are vacant.
2.50   Other Government Institutions. In addition to NDPC, three Government
Commissions also have an important role in environmental resource management. The Lands
Commission administers all government lands and land held under traditional tenure systems
on behalf of the nation. The Forestry Commission is responsible for monitoring the forestry
sector and advising Government and the MLNR on forestry issues. The Mineral Commission
promotes efforts to develop Ghana's mining industry and formulates policy with respect to
exploration and exploitation of mineral resources. Important para-statal bodies with
responsibility for environmental resource manrgement include the Ghana Cocoa Board, the
Ghana Irrigation Development Authority, the Volta River Authority, the Ghana Water and
Sewage Corporation, the Electricity Corporation of Ghana and the National Energy Board.
2 51   The District Assemblies are now responsible for the development and management of
settlements and the environment, for monitoring the impact of projects on the environment
and for enforcing national legislation or making and enforcing local by-laws to achieve these
ends. The National Development Planning Law of 1989 designates the District Assemblies as
District Planning Authorities, which are responsible for ensuring that all policy proposals and
projects are in conformity with the principles of sound environmental management. In
addition to the District Assemblies, traditional community authorities, chiefs, councils and
other office holders chosen in accordance with community traditions, have considerable
powers to influence environmental resource management. In particular, these traditional
authorities have an important voice in the protection of communal forests, sacred groves,
hunting and 4ocal water sources.
2.52   Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). A large number of NGOs engage in
activities that affect the use of environmental resources, particularly those involved in
agricultural programs, which often include the promotion of conservation through tree
planting. These programs are directly supported by the UNDP Africa 2000 Project, which
provides finance for NMOs to undertake community-based agro-forestry, land conservation,
watershed management and food storage projects. There are also a number of internationally
supported NGOs active in these fields. The Wildlife Society of Ghana plays an important role
in promoting awareness of the importance of conserving wildlife habitats. The Society's
support for school Wildlife Clubs has been very successful, with over 100 clubs formed in the
past three years. The Society also publishes a magazine which is distributed to the clubs and
elsewhere. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), a British NGO, has
supported the Ghanaian Save the Seashore Birds Project, which has undertaken inventories of
the bird populations in the coastal wetlands and done much to improve public awareness of
the importance of these areas as habitats for migratory seabirds. Environmental issues are



- 16 -
also the central concern of Green Forum, a Ghanaian NGO whose members &e media
professionals, willing to provide media coverage for matters of environmental importance.
G. Bank Assistance Strategy for the Environment
2.53   Lessons from Previous Bank Group Opvrations. The Bank's assistance strategy for
environmental matters in Ghana is based on a continuing dialogue with Government and the
lessons from previous operations. Although there has been no Bank Group lending in Ghana
specifically for environmental operations, much of previous IDA lending for sectoral projects
has had a direct impact on the environment, through its effect on agriculture, forestry, mining
and industry, End urban development. Experience with these lending operations shows the
need: to work within an agreed national policy, with clearly identified priorities, in a stable
macro-economic environment; to involve communities in the planning and implementation of
sustainable resource use; to provide an institutional focus for the management of
environmentally related matters with agreed procedures for effective coordination; to improve
environmental management skills at district as well as central levels; and to provide training
and support to implementing agencies for procurement and disbursement. This experience is
consistent with conclusions drawn from world-wide experience. I/
2.54   Policies and Priorities. In the light of this experience, and the framework provided
by the Government's Environmental Action Plan, the Bank's assistance strategy aims to
ensure that environmental considerations are fully integrated into Ghana's overall macro-
economic and development policy, its sectoral strategies and specific development initiatives.
This is of particular relevance in consideration of the environmental implications of
Government's proposals for accelerated growth of the Ghanaian economy. At the policy
level, the Bank aims to assist Ghana to take account of critical environmental concerns in the
formulation of policies, in particular in such areas as pricing policy, public expenditure
priorities and fiscal policy. A second important element of the strategy is to give specific
emphasis to integrating environmental concerns directly into sectoral and sub-sectoral
development activities from the start. This means addressing environmental concerns ab
initio, rather than ex post, and devising and implementing appropriate policies and actions
within each sector and operation, supported by the necessary investment funds. Specific
initiatives to minimize pollution in the mining and energy sectors may be suitable tor Bank
group financing and are under discussion.
2.55   Community narticipation. The Bank's strategy emphasizes the importance of
ensuring environmental sustainability in a manner that is compatible with people's livelihood
and survival needs. This means identifying and promoting the use of environmental
resources, in a manner that is not only sustainable, but that provides adequate financial returns
to the users, thereby minimizing conflicts between growth and conservation objectives. The
strategy emphasizes community and beneficiary participation in planning and implementation
of activities that would ensure sustainable use of environmental resources. NGOs can play an
important role as agents in such program preparation and implementation. The strategy
would strengthen the participatory approach through devolution of responsibilities for
I/     'The World Bank and the Environment." A Progress Report. Foscal 1991.



* 17 -
management of environmental resources, and through an emphasis on public awareness
programs.
2.56   Institutional Development. The strategy focuses on the need to develop
environmental management skills in both central and district level institutions. Development
of mechanisms for inter-sectoral environmental policy formulatlon, planning, monitoring,
implementation and regulation requires new institutional linkages. The strategy is to assist
with the development -f those linkages and to assist the Environmental Protection Council to
fulfill its pivotal role in coordination. This would be linked to the development of clear
processes for decision making at all levels. The strategy is to support institutional
development through staff training and improved management structures backed by
appropriate information systems. The emphasis on district, as well as central institutions, is
consistent with Government's policy on decentralization of administration.
2.57   Donor Coordination. Finally, the Bank's strategy is to mobilize grant funding from
the donor community for environmental protection and conservation activities that have high
financial costs and long pay-back periods. This includes mobilization of grant resources
under the Global Environment Facility as well as from bilateral donors.
Im. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objective!
3.1    Rationale. The project would support the objectives of the Bank's development
assistance to Ghana that seeks to promote economic and social development whilst maintaining
the integrity of the environment and ensuring the long-term sustainability of natural resource
use. This objective is to be pursued through support for the implementation of the national
Environmental Action Plan and the development of mechanisms for communities to manage
their own resources. The project represents the first stage in the implementation of the
strategy for providing environmental assistance, discussed in the previous chapter. It is based
on agreements with Government on the priorities to be attached to the various actions
identified in the EAP, in particular, strengthening national and district capabilities for
environmental management, initiating a community based program of soil and water
management, and addressing the problems of coastal zone management. The rationale for the
scope and design of the project is strengthened by the fact that significant proportions of the
EAP are under preparation or implementation under various sector-specific projects. The
forestry project is of particular significance whilst other issues can be best addressed by
modifying on-going projects in the urban, industrial and energy sub-sectors.
3.2    Objectives. The primary objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of both
government and people to manage environmental resources. The project therefore focuses on
improving resource management capability through reorganizing the institutions involved in
environmental resource management, in particular the Environmental Protection Council and
its Technical Secretariat (EPC/TS). The project would aim to support the TS to fulfill its role
in environmental management, that is, coordination of action to ensure that development is



- 18 -
consistent with the sustainable use of environmental resources, monitoring of the environment
and creation of public awareness of environmental issues. The role of the TS would not,
therefore, be that of an implementing agency. Institutional development of the TS forms an
important objective of the project, involving the training of staff of the TS, sectoral and local
government agencies in environmental inanagement and economics.
3.3    Development of the management system would be supported through the provision of
an improved environmental information system, based on a demand driven approach, and the
creation of links between suppliers and users of information. The objective would be to
provide a better understanding of environmental relationships, and early warning of
environmental pollution or degradation. The project would specifically aim to improve the
availability of topographic, present land use, land ownership, land suitability and
meteorological data, and the information required to monitor environmental quality. To
ensure that spatial information can be readily exchanged amongst users the objective would be
to ensure that it is presented in a standardized format, geo-referenced to a common projection
and prepared to similar standards of accuracy and precision.
3.4    Other project objectives are to assist the users of environmental resources to invest in
the maintenance of environmental assets through adoption of improved practices for the
sustainable use of those resources. In particular the project would support the introduction of
imrroved land management practices through community involvement in the planning and
implementation of measures to minimize land degradation. Specific attention would be paid
to the fragile coastal wetland ecosystems through the recognition of five sites under the
Ramsar Convention and the establishment of a system for their management and future
development. Dissemination of environmental information would be one other important
objective of the project, within public sector agencies at national and district levels and the
public at large, by means of public information and awareness campaigns. These would be
both formal, through workshops and the curriculum, and informal through, for example,
wildlife clubs.
B. PrWect Design
3.5    Tbe project is designed to emphasize mechanisms and processes rather than
attempting to be prescriptive about environmental actions. Three strategic considerations
underlie project design: (i) the inter-sectoral nature of many environmental concerns; (ii) the
fact that many areas of government are to b  decentralized to District Assemblies; and (iii) the
need to ensure that communities are involved in decisions about the use of environmental
resources. The development of inter-sectoral linkages for the management of the environment
is the basis of the proposals f- the institutional development of the EPC/TS, with the
associated training of staff in:   ral agencies. Project action to strengthen the regional
offices of the EPC/TS and pro. .:' training to local government staff is designed to support
decentralized decision making, whilst the whole program of improved management of
enviromnental resources, in the coastal wetlands and elsewhere is based on community
participation, discussed further in Annex 4. The project is, therefore, designed to s upport the
implementation of the national EAP and is consistent with a community-based approach. The
inter-sectoral nature of environmental management necessitates the involvement of many
agencies in data collection, planning, monitoring, problem solving and enforcement. The



- 19 -
project is designed to use capabilities in existing agencies, rather than attempting to create the
capabilities within a central agency, such as the EPC/TS. Coordination of the activities of the
various agencies involved is therefore an important aspect of project design. Innovative
aspects of the project concern the involvement of NGOs in both public awareness campaigns
and in programs linked to community participation in the management of environmental
resources.
C. Summary Description
3.6    The project would be implemented over a five year period and would have three main
components, listed below with the main activities in each:
Component I - Development of a National Environmental Resource Management
System
(A) Management Development
-  Ititutional Support to EPC/TS. Strengthening of the TS to enable it to fulfill
its role as coordinator and facilitator of inter-sectoral action for the planning
and management of environmental resources at both national and district
levels.
Human Resource Development. The development of management and
technical skills in the TS and the p:ovision of training in the management of
the environment for staff of administrative and sectoral agencies at national
and district levels, through formal degree programs, short-term practical
attachments and targeted workshops.
- Environmental Education. The development of a strategy for increasing
public awareness of environmental issues and support for electronic media and
print campaigns, using available government and NGO skills.
(B) Environmental Information System Development. The development of a system
for the collection of information to monitor environmental quality against agreed
threshold levels; the collection, interpretation, and presentation of topographic,
present land use, land ownership, land suitability and meteorological information
that is determined by the needs of the information users, the planners and
managers of environmental resources. The information would be consistently
geo-referenced to ensure compatibility and optimum utility.
Component II - Land and Water Management. The introduction on a pilot basis of
improved land and water management based on community participation in the
planning, implementation and monitoring of measures to reduce land degradation; the
development and testing in selected community areas of methodologies for community
involvement and for the management of incentive schemes; the development of
capabilities to train government and NGO staff in the skills needed to support



- 20 -
communities; a parallel program to improve land management on tractor cultivated
lands on both large and small farms.
Comgonent III - Coastal Wetlands Management. The demarcation and management
of five coastal wetland sites to be recognized under the Ramsar Convention as sites of
international importance as habitats for migratory seabirds; development of a
Wetlands Management Unit; inventory and monitoring of dhe ecology of the sites; the
devl- pment of education centers to increase piblic awareness; studies to identify
forms of development that would be compatible with preserving the ecological
integrity of the sites; and the construction of an alternative marine out-fall for
disposal of urban sewage effluent at one site.
D. Detailed Features
Component I - Development of an Environmental Resource Management System
(A) Environmental Management Development
3.7   Institutional Support to EPC/TS. The project would provide funds for the
development of the proposed environmental resource management system. This would
include staff development (see para. 3.8), provision of facilities in Accra and the regional
offices, the development of a management information system and funds for special studies
and consultancies. Project funds would be available for completion of the TS headquarters
office building in Accra, for development of regional offices, and for the purchase of
furniture, equipment and vehicles, together with incremental recurrent expenditure. The
development of a management information system would be supported through provision of
computing equipment, whilst the TS library would be supplied with books, journals and the
necessary library furniture and equipment. The TS would control project funds to
commission special studies for EIA, to prepare imton plans to address particular
environmental problems, and to undertake studies of development options that are compatible
with sustainable use of environmental resources. Tbe most important of these would be a
study of the environmental impact of various forms of development in the Volta Basin lying
within Ghana. The studies in the coastal wetlands would form the basis of the development of
a national wetlands strategy. Other studies would relate environmental resource information
to population and economic policy issues and would be defined, as the need arises, in
cooperation with sectoral or national planning agencies, the main users of such information.
Special funds would be available for studies of environmental problems requested by regional
and district authorities. Terms of Reference for all these studies are presented in Annex 5.
The project would finance short-term inputs by both local and internationally recruited
consultants to assist with the development of the management system, the establishment of
procedures for EIA and pollution control, environmental economics, environmental law, data
management, library and information science, and the formulation of a strategy for public
awareness campaigns. Thc Management Services Division (MSD) of the Office of the Head
of the Civil Service (OHCS) would participate in the development of the management system
within the TS. Technical assistance arrangements, discussed in more detail in paras. 5.32 ff.,
would emphasize the development of twinning arrangements w-sh an appropriate institution.



- 21 -
3.8    Human Resource Development. The project would finance a major program of
human resource development through formal degree programs, acquisition of experience
through short-term practical attachments and targeted workshops. Thus, MSc and short-term
post-graduate training would be provided at an appropriate institution for staff of the EPC/TS,
selected sectoral agencies and staff of training institutions. Training in management,
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), environmental economics, environmental law, data
management, communications, library and Information science, and workshop facilitation
would be included. The project would also provide for regular workshops, to be organized
by the Ghana Institute for Management and Public Administration (GIMPA), to provide
managers and technical staff of sectoral agencies with the opportunity to apply environmental
economics and management concepts to situations representative of Ghanaian conditions. A
similar series of workshops would be financed for administrative officers and technical staff
from regional and district agencies. The human resource development program would be
further strengthened by the integration of technical assistance (paras. 5.32 ff.) with the formal
training, practical experience and on-going professional development through local problem
solving. The creation of institutional linkages between EPCITS and appropriate foreign
institutions would be an important element of the strategy for overall institutional
development, that would provide a focus for both foreign training and technical assistance.
3.9    Environmental Education. As a first step, the project would support the development
of a strategy for increasing public awareness of enviromnental issues, that would build on the
existing capabilities within EPC/TS and NGOs such as the Green Forum for Development,
the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana and the Ghana Wildlife Society. Project finance would be
available for the design, production and distribution of print and broadcast materials,
including; posters, billboards, and pamphlets; videotapes for broadcast and subsequent
distribution for viewing at schools and education centers; and the production of local language
radio broadcasts on envirommental topics. The project would also finance the development of
an extension unit within EPC/TS that would bring information about sound environmental
practices to rural people. A vehicle with audio-visual equipment would be purchased, and
funds provided for staff training and the production of extension materials.
(B) Environmental Information System Development
3.10   The project would support the development of an environmental management
information system within the TS and finance improvements in the collection and processing
of selected data sets required for effective environmental management that are not presently
collected by sectoral agencies, or that are not readily available. These include data for
monitoring environmental quality, and a range of information related to land and its use that
includes topographic, present land use, land ownership, meteorological and land suitability
data. These spatial data sets, generated by project funded activities, would be compatible and
geo-referenced to a standard projection and ellipsoid to enable information to be readily
exchanged amongst users. The collection and processing of other data sets required for
environmental management, for example population, forestry and mining data, would not be
financed through the project as they are the responsibility of other sectoral agencies.
However, the digital reference base to be prepared by the Survey Departme-'t with project
finance, would provide a means of ensuring compatibility of all national spatial data sets. The



- 22 -
proposals are based on the strategy agreed at the workshop held in October 1991, 6/ which
laid emphasis on the need to establish the users' demand for information, rather than the
development of technology-driven information supply systems.
3.11   Environmental Ouality. The project would support a system for monitoring air and
water quality. The EPC/TS would be responsible for monitoring and the collection of
samples. As it does not have the requisite laboratory facilities and staff, analyses would be
undertaken by the Institute for Aquatic Biology (1AB) and/or the Water Resources Research
Institute (WRRI). The project would finance the purchase of air, water and solid waste
sampling equipment and vehicles for EPC/TS, together with training and field allowances.
Technical assistance to help with the development of the sampling program and to train staff
in appropriate sampling techniques and the use of specialized equipment would also be
financed. Project funds held by the TS would be used to cover the costs of analyses to
monitor a range of chemical and biological parameters. The TS would be responsible for
supervision of the program, determining the range of analyses, the density and frequency of
sampling, and the threshold values to be monitored. The monitoring program and the
location of sampling points would be agreed with other involved agencies, in particular the
Department of Mines. The laboratories would be responsible for the quality of the
monitoring progrrm and would purchase international standard solutions. The TS would
finance inspection of the laboratories by the Ghana Standards Board and arrange for periodic
verification of analytical results at other laboratories. Project funds would be available for
special studies of specific problems, for example the disposal of solid wastes.
3.12   Topogranhic Information. The project would finance the development of three units
within the Survey Department: (a) to improve the existing capacity for map production as
there is a continuing need for printed maps at all scales. The project would provide
photographic, cartographic and lithographic equipment, and training to enable the Survey
Department to meet this demand. (b) to establish digital mapping capabilities as topographic
information in digital form will be essential for all sectoral planning in the future to ensure
compatibility of data compiled by different sectoral agencies. The project would support the
development of a unit that would not only be responsible for preparation of topographic maps
in digital format, but also provide advice and services in digital mapping technology to other
sectoral agencies. The project would finance the necessary equipment and staff training.
Technical assistance would be provided through the establishment of links with an
international survey and mapping organization, which would set up the equipment, provide
on-the-job training for staff, both in the Survey Department and at their own offices, and
contract to digitize some 250 of the 350 topographic maps at 1:50,000 scale that cover Ghana;
the remaining maps would be digitized in Ghana as part of the process of developing
capabilities in the Survey Department. A summary of the obligations and responsibilities of
the international survey and mapping organization is prese"'ted in Annex 6. (c) to re-develop
the Ghana Survey School through the rehabilitation of the existing building and the provision
of new furniture and training equipment. The project would also finance curriculum
development and the production of teaching notes, aids and course materials for the existing
seven core subject areas, using expertise available in universities in Ghana. The development
of a new course in digital mapping would also be financed to ensure students were familiar
6/     Workshop on Land Infornation Requirements for Land Use Planning in Ghana. 1991. Environmental
Protection Council Repost.



- 23 -
with digital mapping techniques being introduced in the Survey Department. Project funds
would be available for six intensive workshops, to be held in Ghana, using international
experts to update Survey Deportment staff skills in specialized survey and mapping
techniques. Formal academic training and short attachments would also be financed for
graduate survey staff.
3.13   PresnL Land Use. The project would support the development of the Remote
Sensing Applications Unit within the Department of Geography and Resource Development,
University of Ghana. The Unit would provide remote sensing services to other agencies and
would be functionally separated from the research and teaching activities of the Department.
The project would, nevertheless, build on the experience of Departmental staff in remote
sensing, developed with donor support. Project funds would be used to purchase necessary
equipment and imagery for the production of a national map of present land use, at a scale of
1:250,000. Vehicles, equipment and allowances for field checking the interpretation of the
imagery would also be financed, together with staff training and necessary technical
assistance. Both technical assistance and training would be linked to twinning arrangements
with an overseas remote sensing agency. Close linkages with the Survey Department would
also be essential, both for the preparation of the land use maps in digital format and for their
printing.
3.14   Land Ownershi . Project funding would be provided for a study of land ownership
and the production of a map showing patterns of land ownership at a scale of 1:250,000. The
study would distinguish areas of Government land from areas held under traditional tenure
and other arrangements. The traditional rulers and the area in which they control tenure
arrangements would be identified, together with disputed areas. The Lands Commission
would be responsible for data collection and map production, but staff of the Land
Administration Research Centre (LARC), University of Science and T'chnology, Kumasi,
would participate. The project would finance computer equipment and software for digital
map preparation, vehicles, and field allowances. Project funds would be provided for staff in
land information management and for recruitment of land specialists from LARC on a
consultancy basis. The project would also fund the printing of the maps and bulletins.
3.15   Meteorological Data. The project would finance the production of a computerized
data base of climatological records for the period since 1930, presently stored in notebooks,
together with the analysis of this data for purposes of land suitability evaluation. Project
funds would be used to purchase computer equipment, and recruit and train additional data
entry clerks and supervisors. The project would also provide for the training of
meteorologists to develop the capabilities of the Meteorological Services Department to
process and interpret the computerized records. Technical assistance would be provided for
the development of the data entry system and on-the-job training of existing staff in the
processing and interpretation of the data.
3.16   Land Suitabil. The project would support the production of land Puitab!ity data
bases for up to 30 land utilization types, based on the national soil survey maps at a scale of
1:250,000. Project finance would be available for the four activities necessary to produce
the land suitability information: (i) digitizing, editing and printing the soils maps produced by



- 24 -
the Soils Research Institute in the standard sheet format used by the Survey Department; 2/
(ii) generating slope information from the digital version of the 1:50,000 topographic base
maps; (iii) processing of meteorological information (discussed above); (iv) selection of land
utilization types, the establishment of criteria to assess suitability, and interpretation of the
available soil, slope and climatic data in terms of the agreed criteria, involving agronomists
and planners from research institutes and sectoral agencies. The project would finance the
necessary training and technical assistance, computer hardware and software for processing
information and for maintaining the geo-referenced data bases. The project would also fund
the printing of land suitability bulletins and the production of digital maps at a scale of 1:1
million for ten priority land utilization types.
Component nI - Land and Water Management
3.17   The project would finance a pilot program to introduce improved land and water
management, based on the participation of the communities in the planning, implementation
and monitoring of measures to reduce land degradation in micro-watersheds within community
owned areas. The project would also finance a development fund to provide incentives for
farmers to adopt improved land management practices in the short term, until the long-term
benefits become apparent. The major land degradation problems and possible technical
solutions are described in Annex 2, together with analyses of the financial and economic
returns to adopting these solutions that indicate the need for an incentive system. In addition,
support would be given to programs to improve the effectiveness of water use through the
introduction of simple water control measures. Such programs would be targeted at
community areas, larger farms, wetland areas, and areas proposed for new settlement. The
project would also lead to the introduction of improved land management practices on tractor
cultivated lands.
3.18   As the approach to land management would be innovative, a flexible approach is
essential and limited to a pilot program, with a mid-term review to establish whether the
program is successful and should be expanded. The first year would be devoted to training
staff and devaioping appropriate methodologies for community involvement. An important
aspect of t'is development work would be a study of existing experiences with community
participation in Ghana and the project would include finance for a national workshop to bring
together experiences with community-based approaches. During the first year, project support
would focus on me establishment of a Land and Water Management Central Unit within the
Ministry of Agriculture, that would have the capability to provide on-going training in land
management, planning and implementation to a wide range of Ministry staff and members of
NGOs. This would mean training the trainers through formal courses, study tours to learn
from experience elsewhere in Africa and other parts of the world, practical field experience of
the diagnosis and identification of land management problems affecting communities, and of
planning and implementing measures to resolve those problems with the participation of the
users of the land resources. In the second and subsequent years the project would finance a
program of training Village Land Management Teams to undertake field work in community
areas, and Land and Water Management Subject Matter Specialists, to supervise the field
teams and provide the linkages with both extension and research staff.
1/    Funds for completion of national soil surveys at a scale of 1:250,000 are available through the IDA-
supported National Agricultural Research Project.



- 25 -
3.19   The project would support a pilot program of land and water management in a total
of 48 communities over the five year project period. Following selection of a community
(See Annex 2) the program would start with diagnostic surveys, undertaken by the community
and the Village Planning Team, to establish the range of problems and priorities to be
addressed. This would be followed by the planning and design of land improvement
measures on community lands and their implementation by communities. This program
would be supported by a Land Management Fund, as a means of providing incentives to
individuals and communities to adopt the improved land management practices. One of the
objectives of the pilot project would be to develop qualifying criteria and mechanisms for the
management of the fund, but outline proposals are presented in Annex 2. Further support to
the program would be provided through the financing of a series of adaptive trials to test land
management technologies.
3.20   In parallel to this program for community based land management, the project would
also support the Agricultural Engineering Services Department (AgEngSD), by financing the
training of staff in the design and lay-out of measures to improve land management on tractor
cultivated lands. Three Land Use Planning Teams and three associated Survey/Layout Teams
would be trained, whilst staff of AgEngSD would train some 1,200 tractor operators in the
correct use of implements. The project would promote close cooperation between the
AgEngSD and the DCS through joint training, and ensuring that engineers and land use
planners address the problems of areas under mechanized cultivation together.
3.21   The project would finance technical assistance to develop training programs and
methodologies, short courses in other African countries and fellowships for overseas MSc
courses. The project would also fund equipment and vehicles for field operations, housing for
the field based Land Management Teams. Incremental staff salaries and allowances would
form part of Government's contribution to the project. The project would finance a mid-term
review workshop to evaluate progress and a final project evaluation workshop.
Component III - Coastal Wetlands Management
3.22   The project would provide funds for the management of five coastal wetland sites to
be recognized under the Ramsar Convention, to which Ghana is a signatory (see para. 2.12).
The five sites are the Muni Lagoon, Densu Delta, Sakumo, Songor and Anlo-Keta lagoons,
with a total area of about 1,500 km2 (See Map 2). Finance. would be available for boundary
surveys and demarcation, needed for the formal recognition of each site under the Ramsar
Convention. Support would be provided to the Department of Game and Wildlife (DGW) of
MLNR for management of the sites. This would include a coastal wetlands coordinator, an
education officer and site wardens, observation points, field equipment, transport and simple
on-site education centers. Funds would also be available for base-line surveys and regular
monitoring of the ecological conditions, including the status of lagoonal fisheries. This
monitoring would be undertaken through local consultancies, using the specialist skills
available in the universities and elsewhere, and would be closely linked to the regular
monitoring of environmental quality, discussed in para. 3.11. The availability of finance to
undertake studies of the environmental implications of various forms of development within
the Volta Basin, both above and below the Akosombo dam, and for the assessment of
development options within the wetlands that would be compatible with preserving their
ecological integrity has been discussed in para. 3.7. Project finance would also be available
for the establishment of an Investment Support Fund. This would enable identified



-26 -
development options to be realized through, for example, financing pilot schemes, or
providing necessary public infrastructure. The wetlands program would also be linked to
community based land and water management, through the promotion of measures to reduce
erosion and improve vegetative cover in the immediate catchments of the wetland sites.
3.23   The Sakumo Lagoon poses special problems. It lies on the western margin of Tema,
and plans for a new sewage treatment plant involve the discharge of the treated effluent into
the lagoon. The outlet of the lagoon is severely restricted by a road and railway
embankment. The project would provide funds for the construction of a pipe and marine out-
fall that would discharge the treated effluent into the sea. This would minimize nutrient
build-up and consequent eutrophication of the lagoon, but there would oe no adverse effects in
the surf zone due to rapid dilution. The project would also finance a study of the hydrology
of the lagoon and possible effects of dredging and of modifying the existing sluice and culvert
through the railway and road embankment.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost Estimates
4.1    Total project costs are estimated at US$35.9 million (Cedis 14.7 billion) inclusive of
duties and taxes in the amount of US$1.7 million (Cedis 671 million). Of this 59 percent or
US$21.1 million are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs amount to 78 percent and
incremental recurrent costs to 22 percent of base costs. The base costs obtained at appraisal
in March 1992 were adjusted to reflect costs at the fme the project becomes effective in
January 1993. Total contingencies are 19 perc-L.' o. base costs, with physical contingencies
accounting for 6 percent and price contingencies for 3 percent, calculated on base costs plus
physical contingencies. The appraisal exchange r  of Cedis 395 to the US Dollar, declining
to Cedis 425 in 1997, and the following assumptions on the domestic and international annual
rates of inflation were used to derive the total project cost estimate.
International          Domestic
(percent)            (percent)
1993-1997    3.4                  5.0
4.2    The following table gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables on project costs by year, by component and by summary accounts are
presented in Annex 7.



-27 -
Pro3ect Cost Summary
Foreign  Local  Total  EE
........ (US$ million) .......  ()
I. Development of Environmental Resource
Management System
A. Environmental Management Development
- Institutional Support to EPC/TS          3.1    2.2    5.3    58
- Human Resource Development               1.4    0.4    1.8    80
- Environmental Education                  0.3    0.5    0.8    41
Sub-Total                     4.8    3.1    7.9    61
B. Environmental Information System Development
- Environmental Quality                    1.4    0.6    2.0    71
- Topographic Information                  3.8    0.6    4.4    85
- Present Land Use                         1.7    0.5    2.2    78
- Land Ownership                           0.4    0.2    0.6    66
- Meteorological Information               0.6    0.1    0.7    81
- Land Suitability                         0.4    0.1    0.5    86
Sub-Total                     8.3    2.1    10.4    80
H. Land and Water Management                     2.7    2.8    5.5    50
II. Coastal Wetlands Management                  2.2    4.0    6.2    35
Total Baseline Costs                             18.0   12.0   30.0    60
Physical Contingencies                     1.2    0.7    1.9    57
Price Contingencies                        1.9    2.1    4.0    48
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/                          21.1    14.8   35.9    59
If Including duties and taxes of US$1.7 million.
B. Progosed Financing Plan
4.3   The proposed financing plan would involve the provision of funds by IDA, the
Government of Ghana (GOG), the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET), and two bilateral
donors, the British ODA and DANIDA. Of the total project cost of US$35.9 million, the
IDA credit would finance US$18.1 million (50%) and the Government US$3.8 million (11%),
both excluding duties and taxes. GET grant funds, totalling US$7.2 million (20% of project
costs) would be provided to finance the Coastal Wetlands Management component. The ODA
support would be focused specifically on EPC/TS and would amount to US$0.9 million.
DANIDA assistance would be for technical assistance and training linked to the land-related
activities in the project, both land management and land information, and would amount to
US$4.3 million. Both agencies would provide funds on a grant basis and the assistance would



- 28 -
form an integral part of the project. It would be a condition of project effectiveness that
bilateral agreements between the Govermnei.t of Ghana and the Governments of Denmark and
UK be effective, for assistance as summarized in this report, and detailed in DANIDA and
ODA project documents.
4.4   The rationale for the use of GET grant to finance the Coastal Wetlands Component
rests on the international importance of the five wetland areas as habitat for migratory
waterfowl on the East Atlantic Flyway and the lack of local financing to ensure that future
developments would be compatible with preservation of the ecological integrity of the sites.
Without such funding, population pressure and environmental hazards will ensure the
continuing degradation of these environmentally sensitive areas and the loss of critical habitat
for key species. The GEF project selection criteria are presented in Annex 8.
4.5   The IDA Credit and the GET, ODA and DANIDA grants would cover 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs and 72 percent of local costs, so Government's contribution would
cover 32 percent of local costs, plus taxes. Operational costs amount to 22 percent of total
costs, including contingencies. These would include the operation and maintenance costs of
civil works, vehicles and equipment financed by the project. IDA and GET would fund about
56 percent of the recurrent costs, excluding salaries and allowances for incremental staff,
which amount to about US$2.9 million over the five-year project period. Recurrent cost
contributions by GET have been calculated on the same basis as for IDA. The financing
plans below present the contributions by agency.
Proposed Flnancing Plan by Project Component
IDA GET 0DA DDA GOG 1/
............... .(US$ million).
I(A). Environmental Management
- Institutional Support to EPC/TS        4.4   0.6                 1.2
- Human Resource Development             1.1          0.9
- Environmental Education                0.7                       0.3
I(B). Environmental Information System Devt.
- Environmental Quality                  2.0                       0.4
- Topographic Information                5.0                       0.3
- Present Land Use                       1.2                 1.0   0.4
- Land Ownership                         0.5                 0.1   0.1
- Meteorological Information             0.4                 0.3   0.1
- Land Suitability                       0.2                 0.3
II. Land and Water Management                   2.6                2.6   1.5
III. Coastal Wetlands Management                      6.6                 1.1
TOTAL                                   18.1   7.2   0.9   4.3   5.41/
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.7 million.



- 29 -
Proposed Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Loeal Costs
Foreign      Loca         Total
................ (US$ million).
IDA                        14.1          4.0         18.1
GET                         3.1          4.1          7.2
ODA                         0.9                       0.9
DANIDA                      3.0          1.3          4.3
GOG  I/                     -            5.4          5.4
TOTAL                      21.1         14.8         35.9
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.7 million.
C. Financial Implications for Government
4.6   Incremental recurrent expenditure resulting from the project would amount to about
US$2.3 million in the final year of the project. Government's contribution to these costs
would rise from about US$0.4 million in the first year of the project to US$1.5 million in the
fifth year, that is, would rise from approximately 50 percent to about 70 percent of the total
of incremental recurrent costs. Of this, ths most important contribution would be the
provision of staff salaries and allowances, as the primary objective of the project, the
development of capacity to manage environmental resources, is dependent on strengthening
institutional capacities. In order to further dcvelop the environmental management system and
maintain the momentum of activities developed through the project, there will be a continuing
need for investment and commitment by Government to provide adequate recurrent
expenditure beyond the five-year project period. The project is designed as the first phase (4?
a long-term effort to develop environmental management capabilities in Ghana. With the
experience gained during the proposed project, appropriate mechanisms for future phasing of
Govermnent funding for environmental management can be developed with further donor
support.
D. Procurement
4.7    All goods, works and services financed by IDA and GET would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Items
financed by ODA and DANIDA would be procured according to the procedures of those
agencies. Procurement would involve: civil works; vehicles, equipment and materials; a
contract for services and equipment for the Survey Department; technical assistance, special
studies and training; investment support and land management funds; and incremental
recurrent costs. Procurement arrangements for these categories would be as follows:



- 30 -
Civil works estimated to cost US$250,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.6 million to be financed by IDA and up
to an amount equivalent to US$2.2 million to be financed by GET, would be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). The justification for the proposed LCB for civil works is that the civil
works required constitute completion or rehabilitation of existing buildings, or
the construction of widely scattered housing for field staff. It is estimated that
there would be at least twenty contracts and the size of the average contract
would be less than US$250,000. It is likely that foreign firms would not find
such civil works attractive and there are experienced local contractors.
Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be precluded. Contracts
for civil works costing more than US$250,000 would be awarded using ICB
procedures.
Vehicles. equipment and materials valued at US$6.6 million would be
grouped, wherever possible into contracts valued at US$200,000 or more and
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures. Goods valued at less than US$100,000 but more than
US$50,000, up to an aggregate value of US$0.2 million to be financed by
IDA and US$0.2 million to be financed by GET, would be procured using
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Vehicles, equipment and materials valued
at less than US$40,000, but in aggregate amounting to not more than US$0.5
million to be financed by IDA and US$0.3 million to be financed by GET,
would be procured through local or international shopping, based on price
quotations from at least three different suppliers. This level of shopping
would be needed because of the number of agencies involved in project
implementation, each with specific and differing needs.
Contract for services and equipment for the Survey Department would amount
to about US$4.3 million. The contract would be awarded on ICB, following
detailed post-qualification assessment and approval by IDA.
Consultancies. studies and training total US$9.9 million. All IDA and GET
financed consultancies would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants. All contracts for appointment of consultants
would be subject to prior review by IDA, including the terms of reference,
selection procedures, conditions of engagement, premature termination, etc.
Recruitment of technical assistance staff or consultants financed by ODA or
DANIDA would be according to the standard procedures of those agencies, in
consultation with IDA. Domestic and foreign training would be in accordance
with annual training programs agreed with IDA.
Investment Supgort and Land Management Funds are designed to provide
support to developments in the coastal wetlands and elsewhere, compatible
with sustainable use of the environment. The management of the Investment
Support Fund is discussed in Chapter 5. The procurement method would
observe the thresholds and procedures for odier project procurement. Finance
for the Land Management Fund would be provided by DANIDA, and details



-31 -
of the operation of the fund would be developed during the course of the pilot
pr"ject.
Prolect Preparation Facility (PPF). The PPF extended to EPC/TS was
specifically for recruitment of local consultants and has been used accordingly.
The account will be closed and expenses allocated to appropriate categories.
Qperating costs total US$8.3 million and include staff salaries and allowances,
operating and maintenance costs of vehicles and ecuipment, and the purchase
of office, laboratory, computer, and cartographic supplies. Expenditures
would follow procedures acceptable to IDA, and rei vant documents would be
attached to SOEs and be available for review by external auditors and IDA
supervision missions.
4.7   Procurement arrangements for GET financing would exactly follow the procedures for
IDA financing. The arrangements for procurement of equipment or services financed by
ODA and DANIDA will follow the guidelines of the two agencies. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table on page 32.
4.8    All procurement under LCB will require: (a) advertisements soliciting bids in at least
three local newspapers; (b) public bid opening, the dates and venue of which would be
announced in the advertisement soliciting bids, with any changes announced in a similar
manner; (c) the award of contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder on the basis of pre-disclosed
criteria; (d) no local preference; and (e) no exclusion of foreign bidders. All bidding
packages and contract awards estimated at US$100,000 equivalent and above would be subject
to prior review by IDA. This would result in prior review by IDA of about 80 percent of
contracts. About one in four of the remaining contracts would be subject to random post-
review after contract awards.
4.9   It is Government policy that the procurement of goods, with few exceptions, should
be undertaken by the Ghana Supply Commission (GSC). Civil works would be undertaken
with supervision assistance from the Government Architectural and Engineering Services
Corporation. EPC/TS would play a lead role in preparing procurement schedules for the
project, prior to the initiation of procurement procedures by GSC. EPC/TS have no
experience of IDA procurement procedures, and although they have some experience with
other donors, a condition of project negotiation would be the appointment of a Procurement
Officer, to coordinate the procurement requirements of project implementing agencies,
preparing equipment specifications and procurement schedules and bidding documents for use
by GSC. On-the job training for the Procurement Officer would be arranged with an agency
with procurement experience in other IDA financed projects.



- 32 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Procurement Categorv                    ICB      LCB_               Others
Aa   Bilateral   Govt            Total
................................. (USS miLion).
Civil Works
Total                   1.0     4.5          -                  -            5.5
IDA                    0.4      1.6          -         -        -            2.0
GET                    0.4      2.2          -         -        -            2.6
Govemment              0.2      0.7          -         -        -            0.9
Vehicles
lotal                 2.0        -        0.3         -      0.1            2.4
IDA                     a.5       -        0.2         -        -            1.7
GET                    0.3        -        0.1         -        -            0.4
Govemment              0.2        -          -         -      0.1            0.3
Eguivment and Materials
Total                  3.2      0.5        0.5         -        -            4.2
IDA                    2.2      0.2        0.3         -        -            2.7
GET                    0.7      0.2        0.2         -        -            1.1
Govemment              0.3      0.1          -         -        -            0.4
Survey Contract
Total                  4.3        -          -         -        -            4.3
IDA                    4.1        -          -         -        -            4.1
Government             0.2                                      -            0.2
Technical Assistance
Total                     -       -        1.7       3.1        -            4.8
IDA                      -        -        0.6         -        -            0.6
GET                      -        -        1.1         -        -            1.1
Bilateral                -        -          -       3.1        -            3.1
Studies and Investigations
Total                    -        -        2.4         -        -            2.4
IDA                      -        -        2.4         -        -            2.4
Training and Public Awareness
Total                    -        -        1.2       1.5        -            2.7
IDA                      -        -        0.8         -        -            0.8
GET                      -        -        0.4         -        -            0.4
Bilateral                -        -          -       1.5        -            1.5
Investment Supoort and Land
Manaaement Fund
Total                     -       -        0.5       0.6        -            1.1
IDA                                          -         -        -
GET                      -        -        0.5         -        -            0.5
Bilateral                -        -          -       0.6        -            0.6
Proiect Prenaration Facility
Total                     -       -        0.2         -        -            0.2
IDA                       -       -        0.2         -        -            0.2
Oeratine Costs
Total                     -       -        4.7         -      3.6            8.3
IDA                      -        -        3.6         -        -            3.6
GET                       -       -        1.1         -        -            1.1
Government               -        -          -         -      3.6            3.6
10.5     5.0       11.5       5.2      3.7           35.9
TOTALE
IDA                    8.2      1.8        8.1         -        -           18.1
GET                     1.4     2.4        3.4         -        -            7.2
Bilateral                -        -          -       5.2        -            5.2
Government             0.9      0.8          -         -      3.7            5.4
==   ==            ==    ==    =e                    =



- 33 -
E. Dhsburement
4.10   The IDA Credit of US$18.1 million would be disbursed over a period of 5 years,
beginning in the third quarter of IDA FY93, through the end of the second quarter of IDA
FY98. Grant funds from GET, ODA and DANIDA would be disbursed over the same
period. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 9. It is shorter than the historical
disbursement profile of eight years for agriculture and rural development projects in Africa.
However, in the first two years of the project about 15 percent of annual costs are for
technical assistance, to be recruited by ODA and DANIDA. In addition, a further 15 percent
of annual costs would be disbursed for the contract for services to the Survey Department,
and once the contract has been awarded, disbursement would be straightforward. Because of
these arrangements, disbursements to be managed directly by the project implementing
agencies are much reduced, amounting to not more than about 15 percent of total project costs
in any one year. Further, the institutions responsible for implementing the project are firmly
in place, there is limited need for new construction, rehabilitation or completion of facilities
can be completed rapidiy, and an important project objective is to improve management skills.
These factors v,uld all facilitate adherence to the disbursement schedule.
Summary Disbursement Schedule
Cate¢gry                              Amount Allocated   % to be Financed
IDA  GET        Foreign  Local
(US$ million)
Civil Works                              1.7  2.4         100       70
Vehicles, Equipment, Materials           3.9  1.3         100       90
Survey Contract                          3.8              100       90
Technical Assistance, Training, Studies  3.5  1.3         100      100
Investment Support and Land
Management Fund                              0.4        100      100
Project Preparation Facility             0.2              100      100
Operating Costs 1/                       3.3  0.9          70 to December 1995
50 thereafter
Unallocated                              1.7  0.9
TOTAL                             18.1  7.2
1/ Government's total contribution to operating costs, discussed in para. 4.6, includes
staff salaries and allowances which are not included in the table above.
4.11  In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, two Special Accounts would be opened at a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. These accounts would be operated by EPC/TS to execute the
project. One account would be for expenditures to be financed by IDA, the second for
expenditures financed by GET. Initial advances of US$650,000 equivalent and US$150,000



- 34 -
equivalent respectively, equal to approximately four months eligible expenditures, would be
authorized and withdrawn upon credit effectiveness.
4.12   Replenishment requests will be fully documented except for contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalent, which would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). All supporting documents would be retained by EPC/TS and made readily available
for review by periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors. Wherever possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of not less than US$50,000. The
same limit would apply to direct payments. EPC/TS would have responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications and have sole responsibility for submitting the
withdrawal applications to IDA for payment.
4.13   Government would establish an Environmental Resource Management Project account
with a local commnercial bank, which would receive the Government funding contribution and
would be used to make payments for the implementation of the project. Government would
pay its contribution, quarterly and in advance into this account on the basis of agreed
operational plans. It will be a condition of proiect effectiveness that Government deposits, in
Cedis, the equivalent of US$100,000 in the project account, the estimated Govermnent
contribution for financing tbe local operating and capital costs for the first four months of the
project.
4.14  Each of the agencies with responsibility for implementing the project will establish a
project account with a local commercial bank. These implementing agencies are as
follows:
-     Survey Department
-     Remote Sensing Applications Unit
-     Soils Research Institute
-     Meteorological Services Dept.
-     Lands Commission
-     Ministry of Agriculture
-     Game and Wildlife Department.
4.15   The sub-accounts would be used to meet operational expenses such as purchase of
supplies and payment of field allowances and would receive advances from the Project
Account, based on approved work programs and budgets. An initial advance payment of
US$10,000 equivalent would be made to each of the implementing agencies. Replenishment
of the sub-accounts from the Project Account would be made only on receipt of all
documented expenses as approved by the Head of the implementing agency concerned. The
Director, EPCITS may seek further explanation or call for an audit at any time, should he
deem this necessary, before replenishing the sub-account. The Special and Project Accounts
would be subject to external audit and review by IDA supervision missions.
F. Auditing and Reporting
4.16   With respect to auditing and reporting, agreement was obtained during negotiations
that all accounts, includw, Sttatements of Expenditure, related to the project would be audited



-35 -
annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA. In addition to the auditors reports and
statements of accounts, a long report, that is financial statements and a management letter,
would be prepared. These auditors' reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of the fiscal year of the Government. Semi-annual progress reports covering all
participating agencies would be provided to IDA by the EPC/TS. Within six months of the
project closing date a Project Completion Report would be prepared by Government and
provided to IDA. Assurances on these auditing and reporting requirements were obtained at
negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5. 1    The organization of the project would be fully integrated with the coordination and
management of the environment at national and d;strict levels. The nature of the management
system that would be developed through the project and role and structure of the Technical
Secretariat of the Environmental Protection Council is summarized below and discussed more
fully in Annex 10. Proposals for project management and for project implementation and
supervision are discussed in the following sections.
5.2   The Environmental Resource Management System. The proposed management system
would provide for policy formulation, planning, monitoring, problem solving and
implementation. Most environmental concerns are inter-sectoral and decisions involve choices
between alternative, and possibly conflicting, courses of action which carry costs and benefits.
The management system to be developed through the project would ensure that the possible
options are considered, and that their technical, economic, financial, social or political
implications are examined by the various sectoral agencies involved, in the light of national,
district or community development priorities. A clear and effective process for decision
making up to the highest levels would be an essential part of the management system.
5.3   The Role of EPC/TS. The functions of the EPCJTS in the environmental resource
management system would be the creation of inter-sectoral linkages, that would bring together
the sectoral agencies and communities whose activities impact on the environment. Four
inter-sectoral networks would be created:
-     The Built Environment;
-     Natural Resources;
-     Mining and Industry;
-     Education.
The EPC/TS would form the technical secretariat for each network. The areas of concern for
each of the networks is oudined in Annex 10 together with the suggested core membership,
though the nature of the work would require flexible arrangements and the ability to co-opt
additional members for specific tasks.



- 36 -
5.4   The Structure of EPCJTS. The TS would be headed by a Director, who would be
responsible to the Chairman of the EPC, assisted by a Management Board (Annex 11). This
would mean a change from the present arrangement, in which the Executive Chairman of
EPC not only chairs the Council, but is also responsible for the operations of the Research
and Programs Section. The proposed organization of the TS is presented in Figure 1 and
discussed In Annex 10. The Director would be assisted by three Deputy Directors, for
Sectoral Networking, for Technical Services, and for Administration. The Deputy Director
for Sectoral Networking would be directly responsible for the establishment and operation of
the inter-sectoral networks that lie at the heart of the proposed environmental management
system. The work of the sectoral networks would be supported by specialists grouped under
a Deputy Director for Technical Services. These specialists would include staff with expertise
in environmental economics, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), monitoring of
environmental quality and data management. A recent study of the institutional development
of EPC recommended changes in the staff establishment at various grades. I/ Under the
project the number of Senior Program Officers would be increased to 8, an increment of 7,
the number of Program Officers would be reduced from the establishment strength of 28 to
18, and the number of Assistant Program Officers would be increased by 11 to a total of 25.
The changes would be brought about by promotion and recruitment and the total establishment
of professional technical staff would only be increased from 59 to 63. The changes would
enable the nine regional offices of EPC to be staffed. Increases would be phased in over a
five- year period and allocation of staff within the new structure would be a high priority for
EPC management. The administration of the Agency would be under the Deputy Director for
Administration, wbo would operate in accordance with Government regulations. Posts for a
Project Financial Controller and a Procurement Officer would be established within the
Administration, to ensure effective disbursement of project funds. An officer would also be
appointed with responsibility for human resources development.
B. Proiect Management
5.5    The inter-sectoral nature of many environmental concerns and the diverse information
required for effective management mean, inevitably, that a large number of agencies have to
be involved. Thus, project activities involve not only the EPC/TS but agencies in the
Ministries of Local Government (MLG), Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR), Agriculture
(MOA) and Transport and Communications (MTC). Research institutes under the Council of
Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and University agencies would also be involved.
However, in each of the agencies, project funding would be used to support closely-related
and clearly-defined activities that lie within the present mandate of each agency.
5.6   To simplify project management arrangements, project activities would be grouped
according to project objectives or outputs associated with the three main project components.
For each activity there would be a lead implementing agency, with EPC/TS providing support
for implementation and the coordination of project activities. A Project Coordination
Committee would be responsible for coordination of project activities that involve more than
II/    Environmental Protection Council Institutional Development. Report on Study. Price
Waterhouse. Acca. 1991.



- 37 -
one ministry but implementat.on of each group of project funded activities would be overseen
by five Project Operations Com,nittees (POC) as follows:
-     Environmental Quality (EQPOC)
-     Land Information (LIPOC)
-     Coastal Wetlands Management (CWMPOC)
-     Land and Water Management (LWMPOC)
-     Studies and Investigations (SIPOC)
The linkages between these committees, EPC/TS, implementing agencies and project
components are illustrated in Figure 2. The role of EPC/TS is described below and the
functions of the project committees summarized. More details of the functions and
membership of each of the committees are presented in Annex 12.
5.7   The Role of EPC/TS in Project Management. The EPC/TS would have a key role to
play in the coordination of project activities. A Senior Program Officers would be a member
of each of the Project Committees. The Senior Program Officer would, under the Director of
EPC/TS, assist with the coordination of the activities overseen by the respective committees
and facilitate the disbursement of project funds to implementing agencies. There would be a
single Special Account, operated by EPC/TS, who would be responsible for disbursement
applications to IDA. EPC/TS would also operate the Project Account that would be opened
by Government for disbursement of Government contributions to the project. Each agency
would operate a sub-account, replenished monthly from the Project Account, against
documented expenses. The EPC/TS would, in addition, form the focal point for procurement
of project financed goods and services, coordinating the preparation of procurement
schedules, of detailed specifications by the various implementing agencies, and of
procurement documents in appropriate formats. An important part of the procurement process
would be ensuring the maximum feasible degree of standardization of equipment and software
amongst all implementing agencies, and ensuring that suppliers can provide repair and
maintenance services in Ghana for computer and other equipment. In order to formalize
project financed linkages, Memoranda of Understanding would be drawn up between EPC/TS
and the Institute for Aquatic Biology, the Water Resources Research Institute, the Remote
Sensing Applications Unit, the Soils Research Institute, the Meteorological Services
Department and the Lands Commission that would specify the schedules and costs of
provision of services and products by each agency and the payments and equipment to be
provided by EPC/TS for these services and products.
5.8   Specific project action would be taken to develop the capacity of EPC/TS to fulfill its
role in project management. This would include restructuring the organization, staff
appointments, in particular the early appointment of certain key staff (para. 5.12) and
management training. Project management arrangements would be further strengthened by
the strategy for provision of technical assistance, based on functional linkages, the creation of
institutional links, and the integration of training with technical support, as discussed in
paras. 5.32 ff.
5.9   Ptoject Coordination Committee. The functions of this committee would be primarily
to ensure coordination of project activities that involve more than one ministry. It would
monitor overall progress with project implementation and resolve issues of timing, resource
allocation and financing between the three ministries involved in the project. The Project



- 38 -
Coordination Committee would be chaired by the Chairman of the EPC and the Director,
EPC/TS would be the Secretary.
5.10   Project Operations Committees. The Project Operations Committees would be
functionally based and concerned with different project outputs. They would work as sub-
committees of the inter-sectoral networks to avoid setting up groups with overlapping
responsibilities. For each committee, the Secretary would be directly responsible for
operational management of the project activities overseen by the committee. He/she would
take the take the lead in developing work programs and ensuring timely completion of work,
by promoting action to overcome potential constraints. In the two committees where the
Secretary is not from EPC/TS the Senior Program Officer on the committee would assist the
Secretary to initiate necessary procurement and disbursement action.
C. ProJect Implementation
5.11   A summary implementation schedule for all key project activities is presented in
Annex 13 and discussed below in relation to the main project components. The
implementation schedule has been developed in conjunction with Ghanaian managers to reflect
the present and planned future capacity of each agency to fulfill that mandate. Detailed work
programs for individual activities or groups of activities are set out in the Working Papers
(See Annex 17).
Component I LA) - Environment Resource Management Development
5.12 Many of the actions required to develop the management system outlined in Section A
have been taken. Government has approved the separation of the functions of the Executive
Chairman of EPC between the Chairman of Council and the Director, EPCITS, as well as the
new structure and staffing of EPC/TS. The Project Steering Committee and Project
Operations Committees have been established and agreement reached on the membership of
the inter-sectoral networks. Officers to head the inter-sectoral networks in EPC/TS have been
nominated. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the three Deputy Directors and the
Project Financial Controller would be appointed by project effectiveness. Memoranda of
Understanding between EPCITS and IAB, WRRI, RSAU, SRI, MSD, and L/C would be
prepared by EPCITS and reviewed by IDA by March 1993. The Memoranda could be
revised, if necessary, during the course of the project, with the agreement of both parties and
the concurrence of IDA.
5.13 Human Resource Development. To ensure that full use is made of the funds for
human resource development to be provided through the project an ar nual program for staff
training through formal education would be developed by the Officer in EPC/TS in charge of
the HRD Section, in consultation with other agencies involved in project activities. In all
project components there would be a close integration between the training and technical
assistance proposals (see paras. 5.32 ff.). Thus, ODA financed support for EPC/TS would
link formal education programs with visits by technical assistance staff to work with returning
trainees, providing practical on-the job guidance and assisting with local workshops to extend
the trainees skills to other staff. The institutional links to be developed through this assistance
program would provide for placement of trainees in appropriate overseas course. Similar



- 39 .
arrangements integrating technical assistance and training with development of institutional
links would be a feature of DANIDA financed assistance to land related activities. The
contract between the Survey Department and a foreign survey and mapping orgdnization
would also provide for staff training through both practical work experience and academic
courses. A program of formal education for the first year of the project would be prepared
by Januaay 1993 and subsequent annual programs would be prepared and reviewed with IDA
no later than June of each ye, so that arrangements can be completed for students to join
academic courses in October. The training program would identify training priorities, staff to
participate in training courses and appropriate courses and institutions. Proposals for training
are summarized in Annex 14. A human resource development plan for EPC/TS would be
prepared by Janury 1994, taking into account the need for increased technical and managerial
skills within the TS and a review of staff promotion criteria.
5.14 The Senior Program Officer responsible for environmental education would develop,
with GIMPA, or other appropriate agency, the program of workshops to provide sectoral and
District staff with training in environmental management, related to situations representative
of Ghanaian conditions. Proposals for each type of workshop and an annual program showing
the timing of workshops, the numbers of participants, the participating agencies or districts,
and identifying resource persons to provide expert training would be prepared by EPC/TS and
reviewed with IDA by June of each year.
5.15   Studies and Investigations. The EPC/TS would control project funds allocated to a
variety of studies and investigations linked to the identification of development options. See
Annex 5. Some of these would be of national importance, such as the Volta Basin Study,
whilst others would be of localized importance to specific districts. SIPOC, which is chaired
by NDPC as one of the most important users of the results of the studies, would be
responsible for approving studies and specific terms of reference for consultants to undertake
the work. The use of the Investment Support Fund for identified developments within the
coastal wetlands would be subject to CWMPOC and IDA approval. EPC/TS would have the
responsibility of .ommissioning the studies, and recruiting and supervising the consultants.
5.16   Environmental Education. The Environmental Education section of EPC/TS would
also be responsible for the formulation of a communications strategy to determine how best to
allocate resources among various media and other communications options. The strategy
would be available for review by IDA by June 1993. Once the strategy has been agreed
EPC/TS would organize the production of print and electronic media materials for public
awareness campaigns, using skills available through cooperation with the NGOs.
Arrangements for such cooperation and a program of activities would be agreed by June of
each
Component I (B) - Environmental Information System Development
5.17   Environmental Ouality. It would be the responsibility of the EPC/TS, specifically the
officer in charge of the Sectoral Network for Mining and Industry, to coordinate the
formulation of the program for monitoring environmental quality, through consultations with
all involved agencies. The criteria to be monitored and the location of sampling sites would
be defined by June 1923. Arrangements for analyses of the samples at the UAB and WRRI,
including the costs and mechanisms for payment, would be approved by the Environmental
Quality Project Operations Committee (EQPOC) so that equipment purchase and staff training



-40 -
can begin as early as possible. The laboratories would be inspected by the Ghana Standards
Board by June 1993 with an annual inspection in subsequent years. Getting agreement on the
threshold values to be monitored by EPC/TS would require close consultation with mining
and industrial concerns, as well as with public health authorities and others. Initial values
would be defined by December 1993 and reviewed annually in the light of experience gained.
The monitoring program would be continued throughout the life of the project and beyond.
5.18 Geographic Base Information. The development of the environmental information
system involves a number of inter-linked activities that would be dependent on the production
of spatial data sets that are compatible and geo-referenced to a standard projection. Thus the
production of a digital geographic base information by the Survey Department would be a
critical step, providing the framework for other informatiozi sets. The development of close
working relationships between the Survey Department and a survey and mapping organization
with international experience would be essential to provide the necessary technical support.
Proposals for such a relationship and the provision of services, as outlined in Annex 6, would
be developed by the Survey Department and reviewed by IDA. A senior officer from the
Survey Department has been nominated, with responsibility for preparation of a schedule of
activities leading to the recruitment of the survey and mapping organization, and the
implementation of that schedule. Selection of the firm to provide the services would be a
condition of project effectiveness, with contract signature not later than June 1993. Contract
signature would be a condition of disbursement. Equipment procurement and installation
would be undertaken during the first twelve months of the project, and digitization and
production of topographic maps at 1:50,000 and 1:250,000 scales would continue over the
next two years, followed by a continuing program of updating and revision. An annual
program of map production would be prepared by the Survey Department and approved by
the Land Information Project Operations Committee (LIPOC) for IDA review by June each
yr. This would identify priority map sheets to be prepared, reflecting the needs of the users
of the information.
5.19  The Survey Department would appoint a Principal of the Survey School on a full-time
basis and qualified staff of the Survey Department identified as instructors, to the equivalent
of two full-time staff, by June 1993. The Department would take responsibility for arranging
the rehabilitation of the Survey School buildings, and for recruitment of consultants for
curriculum development. Specialized equipment would be procured through the survey and
mapping contractor to ensure that equipment installed for training purposes is representative
of the production equipment installed in the Survey Department.
5.20 Present Land Use Information. The Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSAU) of the
Department of Geography and Resource Development, University of Ghana, would be
responsible for the interpretation and validation of present land use information using remote
sensing imagery, and for the production of present land use maps. Finalizing of terms of
reference and procedures for the operation of RSAU within the university, that are acceptable
to potential users of land use information and to IDA, and the appointment of the Director
would be conditions of effectiveness. Core staff would be appointed by March 1993. The
first year of the project would be devoted to equipment purchase, acquisition of imagery, and
staff training. By June 1994, proposals for nomenclature and classification would be agreed
with users of the information and approved by LIPOC, following review by IDA. Annual
plans showing the areas to be studied would be prepared by June of each y   and approved



- 41 -
by LIPOC. Interpretation and validation and the production of maps and bulletins wou:d
proceed for the remainder of the project.
5.21   Land Suitability Information. The Soils Research Institute (SRI) would take the lead
role in the preparation of land suitability bulletins and maps. National soil surveys and
accompanying soil bulletins would be completed prior to project start-up using funds available
from the National Agricultural Research Project. Annual plans identifying prio -.y areas for
land suitability work would be drawn up by June of each yer, and approved by LiOC.
Digital soil map production and analysis of slope and elevation data would proceed in
accordance with the agreed plans. Decisions on land utilization types to be included in the
analysis and the development of suitability criteria would involve staff of the Crop Research
Institute and other agricultural scientists. These factors would be agreed following review by
IDA by June 1994. Interpretation of the information in terms of land suitability would be
undertaken by the SRI, with the production of maps and bulletins taking place over two to
three years. Map production would be done with technical help from the Survey Department.
5.22   Meteorological Information. Input and analysis of meteorological information wo
be the responsibility of the Meteorological Services Department, with priorities set by LIPOC.
An annual plan for the processing of meteorological data would be prepared by MSD and
approved by LIPOC by March 1993 with subsequent review by IDA. Annual programs for
subsequent years would be prepared and reviewed by Lune.
5.23   Land Ownership Information. The Lands Commission would undertake the collection
of land ownership and property rights data and the preparation of land ownership maps.
Finalization of arrangements for cooperation with LARC would be the responsibility of the
Lands Commission. Atinual plans for the program of work in collecting land ownership
information would be prepared by the Lands Commission and approved by LIPOC by Irn of
each year, with subsequent review by IDA.
5.24   Land Information System Progress Reviews. To ensure close coordination of all the
activities in the development of the land information system, it would be necessary for LIPOC
to meet regularly. Meetings would, therefore be held at the beginning of each quarter and
more frequently, if necessary.
Component II - Land and Water Management
5.25   The Department of Crop Services (DCS), MOA, would take the lead role in the
implementation of this component, though the Department of Agricultural Engineering
Services would have a part to play. A Land and Water Management Central Unit would be
created within DCS, headed by a Coordinator, responsible to the Director, DCS. The
Coordinator, who has been appointed, would be assisted by two specialists, and would be
responsible for developing procedures and methodologies for planning and implementation of
improved land management practices by communities. The Unit would have overall
responsibility for planning, monitoring and evaluating project-financed training activities.
These would include the training of Subject Matter Specialists, Village Planning Teams, Land
Use Planning Teams and Survey and Lay-out Teams. The training program would take place
in Kumasi, so that staff and trainees would have ready access to the University of Science and
Technology. Trained staff working in the field would be responsible administratively to the
Regional Crop Services Officer, and technically to the Regional Land and Water Subject



-42 -
Matter Specialist. The coordinator would act as the Secretary to LWMPOC and would liaise
with EPC/TS on all matters involving procurement and disbursement from the project
accounts. All staff of the Land and Water Management Central Unit in the DCS would be
appointed by proiect effectiveness. Annual work programs for the Land and Water
Management component would be prepared by MOA ana approved by LWMPOC by June of
each year, with subsequent review by IDA. Details of the approach to the work are presented
in Annex 2. Training programs, study tours and field planning and implementation of the
land and water management program would continue throughout the project, with a gradual
increase in activity as more staff are trained. The program of training of tractor operators
would be the responsibility of the AgEngSD and would start not later than April 1993.
Component III - Coastal Wetlands Management
5.26   The Department of Game and Wildlife, MLNR, would be responsible for the
implementation of this component. The five coastal wetland sites, Muni, Densu Delta,
Sakumo, Songor and Anlo/Keta, have been registered with the Secretariat of the Ramsar
Convention as wetland sites of international importance. Formal boundary descriptions of the
five sites would be completed by June 1. 1993. The legal instrument designating the
boundaries of the Ramsar sites would be prepared, reviewed by IDA, and approved by
Government by December 31. 1993. Annual work programs for the Coastal Wetlands
component, including the program of monitoring, would be drawn up by the Game and
Wildlife Department and approved by CWMPOC by June of each ye, with subsequent
review by IE \. As the results of the monitoring program could influence the design of the
annual work program, these would be ready for review by April of each year. Arrangements
for cooperation with the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana, the NGO that would participate in public
awareness campaigns with the Department of Game and Wildlife, would be finalized by June
1993. The detailed design and management of the education and research center at Songor
would be agreed by June 1995.
5.27   Local Participation and the Role of Women. The participation of communities in the
planning and management of local environmental resources would be essential for project
implementation. The project would support two mechanisms to ensure such participation.
The first is the role to be played by the District Assemblies and the District Environmental
Management Committees. These formal local government authorities are the focus of
Government's thrust to decentralize its functions and provide a forum for public discussion
and a means of mobilizing local resources for environmental action. The project would
provide training in environmental management for district level staff and District Assembly
members. The regional offices of EPC would provide further technical suppokt. The second
mechanism to promote participation would be support for implementation through community
groups. These would be of particular importance in the programs for Land and Water
Management and for Coastal Wetlands Management, as discussed earlier in this chapter.
5.28   Women will play an important role in the implementation of the project, as discussed
in Annex 4. Women are well represented on the professional staff of EPC and in the research
institutes to be supported under the project. It is expected that a significant number of all
trainees in the land and water management training program would be women. At the
District Assembly and community levels, women already take an active role in environmental
affairs. There are no barriers to their participation in bodies such as District Assemblies or
cooperative groups. In fact, women are frequently elected to serve as Treasurer to



- 43 -
community groups because of their acknowledged skills in financia' management. The
majority of persons employed in agriculture in Ghana are women so they have a very direct
involvement with the environment. Consequently, women have been in the forefront of the
grassroots environmental movement, making explicit linkages between environmental issues
and women's concerns for food security, water, fuelwood, family health and the future of
their children.
5.29   The Role Of NGOs. It is important that NGO experience wiih community
participation be brought to bear on project-financed programs. Consequently, NGOs would
be invited to participate in the project start-up workshop, to help to define the approach to
implementation of the pilot project. Several places are set aside in the first full training
program in Project Year 2, for NGOs who have expressed interest in active collaboration. A
number of NGOs would receive practical support in the form of field equipment and
allowances, and motorcycles to enable them to participate actively. In return, NGOs would
be expected to report regularly on their experier.ces and to participate in the mid-term review
and evaluation workshops. In the light of experience the role of NGOs may be expanded to
undertake much of the participatory planning and implementatio~n of the program, or to
provide specific assistance, for example, with the management of the Land Development
Fund.
D. PrQlect Suevlision
5.30   Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule discussed
above and would involve monitoring a number of key indicators. Details of the timing of
supervision missions, the key indicators and the skills that are likely to be needed for
supervision are presented in Annex 15. There would be three missions during the first year
of the project to provide close supervision and assistance during the critical start-up period.
The first mission would correspond with a project launching workshop. Subsequently, the
main supervision mission would coincide with the review of the annual plans for the various
activities, in June/July of each year. There would be one additional supervision mission in
the second quarter of the second, fourth and fifth project years, whilst the mid-term review
would take place in the second quarter of project year three. In addition to the usual
indicators of physical and financial progress, which are related to the implementation and
disbursement schedules and to the detailed cost tables, supervision would monitor key
indicators of progress in the development of the environmental management system,
environmental education, the environmental information system, the adoption of improved
land and water management practices and the impact of the coastal wetland management
program on the ecology of the wetlands. The Technical Secretariat of EPC would play a key
role in these supervision activities.
5.31   The integrated donor approach to the project is reflected in the financing plan and the
strategy for technical assistance and training agreed with ODA and DANIDA. To ensure that
this is maintained, at least one supervision mission per year would be undertaken jointly by
IDA, GEF, ODA and DANIDA. All these agencies would also participate in the project
launch workshop and the mid-term review.



- 44 -
E. Technical Assistance
5.32   The project would finance, under technical assistance arrangements, specialists in
those fields which are important for successful project implementation and in which Ghanaian
skills are lacking. The assistance would complement project-funded local consultancies. The
British ODA would finance technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of EPC/TS.
DANIDA would provide technical assistance for land related activities, that is: for land use
mapping in the Remote Sensing Applications Unit, University of Ghana; for land suitability
interpretation and mapping in the Soils Research Institute; for meteorological data processing
in the Meteorological Services Department; and for land and water management in the MOA.
Both donors would complete bi-lateral agreements with Government, covering their respective
inputs, and staff would be recruited by ODA and DANIDA, in consultation with EPC/TS,
IDA and the implementing agencies.
5.33   The strategy for provision of bilateral technical assistance that has been agreed by
Government and the donors is based on the development of linkages between the Ghanaian
implementing agencies and British and Danish institutions. This would enable concinuity to be
maintained, with most technical assistance staff making several short-term visits over the life
of the project. Long-term technical assistance would be provided in the Land and Water
Management component, where it has been agreed that two specialists would be required over
a period of two years, to help with the development of methodology and the establishment of
training programs. The institutional linkages would also strengthen the proposed training
programs, with the foreign institutions providing courses or assistancb with trainee placement
in other institutions, if necessary. Implementation of the program of technical assistance and
associated training would require careful coordination to ensure timeliness. Both ODA and
DANIDA would make provision for management of their respective programs, through a lead
institution. ODA plan to fund a full-time UK-based manager who would also provide
additional management assistance to EPC/TS. These overhead costs are not reflected in this
project document, but are shown in the bi-lateral agreements.
5.34   Technical assistance would also form part of the contract for survey and mapping
services to be provided to the Sur.:y Department. A similar strategy for development of
long-term institutional linkages would form the basis of this contract. Two technical
assistance staff would be available in the second and third year of the project, to assist the
Survey Department with the development of the map production and digital mapping facilities,
and with staff training. The contract would make provision for fore;gn training of Survey
Department staff and the contracting agency would provide this in their own production unit,
and arrange formal academic training in appropriate institutions.
5.35 Details of project provision for internationally recruited staff and local consultants,
together with the timing of their inputs, are summarized in Annex 16. There would be about
250 months of international consultancies over the five-year project period, paralleled by
about 450 months of local consultancies, mainly for short-term assignments.



- 45 -
F. Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
5.36   No later than 32 months after the project becomes effective a joint mid-term project
review would be heild, involving EPC, MOA and MLNR as well as IDA, GEF, ODA and
DANIDA. To facilitate this review, EPC/TS would prepare a mid-term project reporc, to be
distributed to all participants four weeks prior to the start of the review. The review team
would review progress against the key indicators monitored during supervision (Annex 15)
and towards the revision of key policy and legislative measures set out in the Environmental
Action Plan, that are of particular relevance to project supported activities. These include
land management, water use, forestry and fisheries policies and supporting legislation and
legislation for the control of mining and industrial operations. The necessary actions are
summarized in Annex 3. The review would examine the development of the environmental
resource management system and the functioning of EPC/TS, progress with environmental
education programs and the activities to improve the availability of environmental
information. The ways in which this information is used and the results of project financed
studies and investigations would be examined. The program of land and water management
would also be reviewed, in particular progress with staff training and the development of
methodologies for involving farmers and communities in the management of their own land
resources. Progress with the establishment of the five coastal wetland sites under the Ramsar
Convention would be studied, management strategies examined and monitoring programs
reviewed. The .:view would also consider progress with staff training, construction or
rehabilitation of facilities and the procurement of equipment. The mid-term review would
also lead to changes in project design if these are thought to be necessary, with
recommendations for the implementation of the proposed changes.
5.37   The project completion review would focus on the achievements of the project and its
impact in relation to objectives. In particular, consideration would be given to the
effectiveness of the environmental resour^e management system in deciding and implementing
measures for the sustainable use of those resources. The review would, thus, examine the
impact of environmental planning and monitoring procedures on sectoral programs, and any
changes in pollution or degradation of the environment resulting from agreements reached, or
legislation imposed at national, district and community levels. A project completion report
would be prepared presenting findings and recommendations. The review team would be
headed by a member of the EPC and would include three environmental scientists, one of
whom would have expertise in environmental economics, and one environmental planner.
Two of the team would be from Ghanaian institutions and two from foreign agencies with
international experience in environmental issues. Terms of reference for the team and its
membership would be agreed, and the project completion report would be submitted to IDA
no later than six months after completion of the project.



-46-
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefilts and Justifieation
6.1    The project would support Government's strategy for the sustainable use of the
environment as set out in the National Environmental Policy and would assist with the
implementation of important aspects of the Environmental Action Plan. It would, therefore,
improve the management of environmental resources by both Government and the people,
providing mechanisms for decision making at national, district and community levels. The
project would also improve the availability of the information required to make decisions,
providing a better understanding of the environmental implications of courses of action, and
early warning of environmental pollution or degradation. The project would also promote the
management of their own environmental resources by communities, through developing
methods to involve communities in the planning and implementation of improved land
management practices in the coastal wetlands and elsewhere. Project benefits also include the
preservation of ecosystems in the coastal wetlands. Project financed studies would lead to the
identification of development options that are compatible with maintaining the ecological
integrity of environmentally sensitive areas. They would also provide solutions to site or area
specific problems, and provide insights into the environmental implications of planned
development strategies at national, district and local levels.
6.2   Economic rate of return calculations for the development of the management and
information systems do not lend themselves to conventional analysis, whilst the pilot nature of
the Land and Water Management component means that economic analysis is not appropriate.
The results of economic analysis of the Coastal Wetlands Management component are difficult
to interpret and may not be meaningtifl, as many of the costs and benefits cannot be quantified
and the assumptions depend on whether the analysis is based on a national or global
accounting stance. Consequently, the results of economic rate of return calculations are not
presented, but some of the economic costs and benefits related to the project are discussed
below.
6.3   Information Systems. Information is a rasource like any other resource and,
therefore, amenable in principle to economic analysis. The costs of collection, which have
fallen in real terms over the recent past and are likely to continue to fall with the introduction
of new technology, are relatively easy to calculate and are reflected in the costs of the
Environmental Information System component. The benefits which result from improved
availability and quality of information are much less easy to measure, as the value of
information is in its use in bringing abou. a desired change. The two elements which
contribute to this value are: the incremental net benefit between the state of affairs resulting
from decisions made with and without the additional information; and the probability of
bringing about the desired change, evern without the additional information. The benefits of
the information generated by the project would, therefore, differ with the type of decision it is
being used to make.
6.4    Coastal Wetlands Management. For economic aralysis wetlands can be categorized
according to whether they are associated with direct use, indirect use, or non-use of
resources. Direct use values involve the harvesting of wetland resources, or the use of



- 47 -
wetlands for recreation and cultural purposes. Indirect use values are associated with the
environmental services or ecological functions provided by wetlands, such as groundwater
recharge, nutrient storage and water tr"-atment. Non-use values are existence, bequest, and
option values. Values must also be considered from local, national and global aspects.
6.7   In Ghana, local values derived from the wetlands include the production of fish, salt,
fuelwood, forage, thatching grass and non-potable water supplies. Ecological functions
provided by the lagoons include their assimilative capacity for sewage, and buffering against
floods and storms. Cultural practices are also associated with the wetland areas, for example
the Aboakyir festival of the Efutu people. Use of the lagoons is also highly integrated with
the use of other local resources, for example, their use for fishing when sea conditions are
unfavorable. National and global values are also significant. National values lie in the
potential for commercial salt production and tourism, not all of which are compatible with
local values. Global values relate to the importance of the lagoons as habitat for migratory
seabirds, and as examples of tropical wetlands, an international ecological resource in
diminishing supply.
6.8    Project benefits consist of the avoidance, zr slowing, of the decline in wetland values
presently occurring, plus improved resource productivity resulting from studies and improved
resource management supported through the project. Benefits include fish, salt production,
recreational value, research, improved water flow regulation in the Densu Delta, improved
sanitation around the wetland margins, and the external trade credit, that is the benefit to
Ghana of GET funding. Non-quantifiable benefits include those from the preservation of
environmental services, non-use values and cultural values. Educational benefits stemming
from the project would also be significant.
B. Risl
6.9    A slowing down of the pace of economic recovery that would affect economic growth
and lead to shortfalls in operational funding would adversely affect the project. This might
also increase the incentives of individual resource users to exploit environmental resources for
short-term benefit at the expense of long-term sustainability, but the National Environmental
Policy clearly expresses Government's commitment to conservation and sustainable use of the
environment. Another risk relates to the effectiveness of the environmental management
system, in particular the ability to achieve effective inter-sectoral coordination of action.
However, the project is designed to strengthen this process, through the management
structure, training of staff in EPC/TS and national and district-level sectoral agencies, and the
disbursement of funds for planning and implementation. There are also risks related to the
development of the environmental information system, but the key role played by users of the
information in managing the program and the arrangements for twinning implementing
agencies with foreign agenciew with international experience reduces these risks. Risks are
associated with the program of tind and water management, as it involves innovative
approaches, but the pilot nature of the program minimizes these risks, as it allows for staff
training and the development of appropriate methodologies and their application on a limited
scale. Government has formally declared its intention to recognize the five coastal wetland
sites under the Ramsar Convention, but there is a risk that the objectives would not be met.
However, this risk would be minimized because project funds would be available for site



- 48 -
management, public awareness campaigns and the participation of local communities in
maintaining the ecology of the sites.
C. Environmental Effects
6.10   The primary objective of the project is to improve the management of environmental
resources in Ghana and to introduce programs for the conservation or sustainable use of those
resources. The project would, therefore, have beneficial effects on the environment.
D. I!r.nact on Women
6.11   The project would provide strong support to the management of environmental
resources through decentralized decision maKing at the district level, and through the
involvement of communities in planning and implementation of programs for land and water
management and the preservation of the ecology of coastal wetlands (see para. 5.26 and
Annex 4). It is at community and district level that women would have the greatest influence
on decisions affecting resource management, particularly as many Ghanaian farmers are
women. In addition, the project supported Village Planning Teams, who would be working
with the communities in the design of improved land and water management programs, would
each include a rural sociologist, and womens' concerns will be incorporated into any
community program from an early stage. The appraisal mission will include a sociologist
who will develop more specific recommendations to ensuie that the role of women in
environmental resource management is fully taken account of.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Assurances
7.1    During negotiations with Government the following assurance and agreements were
obtained:
Conditions of Project Effectiveness
(a)    The Deputy Directors of EPC/TS and the Project Financial Controller would
be appointed (para. 5.12).
(b)    The agency contracting to provide specified equipment and services to the
Survey Department would be identified and selected, following IDA
procedures (para. 5.18).



- 49 -
(c)    The Head of the RSAU would be appointed and arrangements for the
operation of the Unit within the University of Ghana would be finalized
(para. 5.20).
(d)    The Land and Water Management Central Unit would be established and staff
of the Land and Water Management Central Unit of MOA would be appointed
(para. 5.25).
(e)    Government would establish an Environmental Resource Management Project
account for EPC/TS and would deposit an initial arnount of US$100,000
equivalent into the account (para. 4.13).
(t)    Agreements betveen the Government of Ghana and the UK and Danish
Govermnents as to the technical assistance and training to be provided as part
of the project would be effective, together with the GET grant agreement
(para. 4.3).
Conditions of Disbursement
(a)    Signature of the contract between the Survey Department and the agency
selected to provide the specified equipment and services for that component
(para. 5.18).
Other Assurances
(a)    Government's incremental contributions would be provided for all project
activities in line with agreed operational plans (para. 4.13).
(b)    Memoranda of Understanding would be drawn up by March 1993 between
EPC/TS and IAB, WRRI, RSAU, SRI, MSD and L/C, setting out schedules
and costs for provision of agreed services or products by each agency. The
memoranda would also specify the payments to be made and the equipment to
be provided by EPC/TS through the project for these services and products
(para. 5.12).
(c)    A human resource development plan for EPC/TS would be prepared by
January 1994, taking into account the need for increased technical and
managerial skills within the TS and a review of criteria for promotion
(para. 5.13).
(d)   The results of studies and investigations of development options financed
through the project would be reviewed by SIPOC and IDA. The use of the
Investment Support Fund for identified developments within the coastal
wetlands would be managed under terms of reference agreed with IDA
(para. 5.15).
(e)    A communications strategy for public awareness programs would be prepared
by EPC/TS by June 1993 and reviewed by IDA (para 5.16).



- so -
(f)    Criteria to monitor environmental quality and the location of sampling sites,
acceptable to IDA, would be established by EPCITS and approved by EQPOC
by June 1993. Threshold values would be established by December 1993 and
reviewed annually (para. 5.17).
(g)    The Principal of the Survey School would be appointed on a full-time basis
and qualified staff of the Survey Department would be identified as
instructors, to the equivalent of two full-time staff, by June 1993 (para. 5.19).
(h)    Core staff of RSAU would be appointed by March 1993. Nomenclature and
classification for land use mapping would be prepared by RSAU, agreed by
LIPOC, and reviewed by IDA, by June 1994 (para. 5.20).
(i)    Formal boundary descriptions of the five coastal wetland sites would be
completed by June 1, 1993, and the legal instrument designating the
boundaries of the Ramsar sites would be prepared, reviewed by IDA, and
approved by December 31, 1993 (para. 5.26).
9j)    The results of annual monitoring of ecological conditions in the coastal
wetlands would be reviewed by CWMPOC in April of each year, with
subsequent review by IDA, starting in 1994 (para. 5.26).
(k)    The detailed design and management of the education and research center at
Songor would be agreed before June 1995 (para. 5.26).
(I)    Annual work and training programs would be drawn up and agreed by the
relevant Project Operations Committee by January 1993 for the first year of
the project and by June for each following year, with subsequent review by
IDA for: formal education and training; workshops to provide sectoral and
District staff with training in environmental management; public awareness
campaigns; topographic map production; land use investigation and mapping;
land suitability studies and mapping; processing of meteorological data; land
ownership data collection and mapping; the land and water management
program of training and community participation; and the coastal wetland
management program.
(m)   All accounts related to the project, including those ri' 'ed to the Land
Mianagement and Investment Support Funds would bt, audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the auditors' report submitted to
IDA within six months of the closing of the financial year of the Government
(para. 4.16).
(n)    A mid-term review and report would be prepared no later than 32 months
after the project becomes effective (para. 5.36).
(o)    Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared within two months of the end
of each semester (para. 4.16) and a completion report would be prepared and
submitted to IDA within six months of project completion (para. 5.37).



-51 -
Recmmendation
7.2   Based on the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a credit to
the Republic of Ghana of SDR 12.6 million (US$18.1 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity.
September 16, 1992
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division



52                         Annex I
-52-                         Page 1 of 2
i1X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I~            Ii                iS,,, I



_53 _Annex 1
Pag2 2 of 2
l~_                    -. _--             -       l            
.                       .f  _          .1
.~~ ...                                        H,;. _.. 



- 54 -Ane 
Page I of 13
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Land and Water Management
1.    Introduction. Community participation in the planning and management of their
resources is an important element in achieving project objectives related to reducing land
degradation. The flexible pilot project design allows for appropriate methods of involving
communities in such planning and implementation to be fully developed in the light of field
experience gained during the project. This Annex identifies the main causes of land
degradation in Ghana, examines some technologies for control, and presents the results of
analyses of the financial and economic returns to adoption of those technologies. An
approach to community participation in the planning and implementation of programs to
mindmize degradation is discussed and the operation of a Land Management Fund to provide
incentives for the adoption of certain of the improved land management technologies is
described.
2.    Land Degradation - Causes and Control Technologies. The major degradation
problems have been reviewed I/ and include: erosion, both sheet and gully erosion, with
localized wind erosion; soil degradation reflected in declining soil fertility and soil physical
deterioration, with localized areas of soil salinity; vegetative degradation, in both rangeland
and forests, and deforestation; and degradation due to changes in the hydraulic regime in
wedands, or due to siltation, flooding or coastal erosion. These types and their immediate
causes are summarized in Table 1. Most of the degradation problems have on-site causes and
effects; whilst flooding and siltation have off-site effects, in Ghana, these are location specific
and of much less importance than the more widespread on-site effects of erosion and soil and
vegetation degradation.
3.    Possible measures to control or reduce the main types of degradation have been
examined and are summarized in Table 2. They can be classed into three, slightly
overlapping groups:
-     Soil fertility enhancing technologies that include alley cropping, the use of
woody fallows, live yam staking, and the introduction of animals into the
farming system through animal traction and planting of fodder bancs;
-     Water and soil conservation technologies such as mulching, ridging, strip
cropping, the construction of stone lines, and the use of Vetiver grass hedges;
-     Biomass enhancing technologies such as private or community woodlots and
farm forestry.
j/    Ghn. Land Resoumce Management Study. Identification Mission. FAO/World Bank
Coopeave Progmm. Report No. 103/91 CP-GIA 28.



- 55 -                               Anx
Page 2 of 13
4.    Qn-Farm Financial and Economic Analysis. Thirty-three farm level technical models
were analyzed, involving 15 technologies in four aggregated agro-ecological zones. The soil
fertility and erosion control effects are central to the modelling of benefits from technology
adoption. These were estimated assuming that the rate of decline in crop production per
hectare per year would be reduced or arrested with a technology in place. The methodology
for estimating rates of soil erosion makes use of the Universal Soil Loss Equation. Similar
work undertaken for Mali was useful in obtaining parameter values for Ghana 2/. The
tying of crop productivity to soil loss was based on work by Lal in Nigeria 3/. Rates of
crop productivity decline without erosion control measures ranged from 2.1% to 10.2% per
year, depending on slope and zone. With erosion control measures in place, crop yield
declines varied from 0.2% to 2.5% per year, indicating that even with improved land
management some yield decline would ensue.
5.    Modelling the declining soil fertility effects of reduced fallow periods was basted on
the gap between the current cropping intensity and the maximum crop intensity allowable to
retain a given soil's productivity over a long period. Thus, as land pressure pushes cropping
intensities above this maximum level, a long-term yield decline is induced. The decline is
assumed to vary linearly from zero at the cropping intensity required to maintain long term
faertiity to 6.5% per year for continuous cropping with no soil fertility enhancement. This
latter figure was derived from long-term cropping studies in northern Nigeria 4/. For
situations where fertility enhancement technologies are adopted some decline can still be
expected; a rate of decline of 1% per year was used, assuming continuous cropping and an
equivalent farm yard manure (FYM) application rate of 6.7 t/ha, which contributes an amount
of nutrient nitrogen to the soil about equal to that provided in alley cropping.
6.    Although there is a dynamic yield decline due to reduced soil loss or declining
fertiity, as calculated above, many technologies provide a more-or-less immediate yield
increment. This benefit usually arises from a sudden improvement in soil fertility or water
utilization which is reflected in improved yields (rather than a long term yield decline being
averted) and is often critical to winning farmer acceptance of a technology. Assumptions
concerning this effect of adopting a land management technology are presented in Table 2.
Yield increments range from 1% to 50%, depending on the nature of the technology,
cropping patterns, and rainfal conditions. Details of these and other assumptions used in the
analysis are presented in Working Paper 9 (see Annex 16)
7.    Financial Analysis of Technologies. Rates of return vary widely for the technologies
analyzed, as indicated in Table 3. In many cases, a single technology shows widely differing
results from one zone to the next, a reflection of varying wage rates, erosion or soil fertility
decline conditions, slopes and cropping patterns. Using a discount rate cutoff of 20%, only
11 of the technical models show acceptable returns, while 22 do not. For this reason, few
/     Bishop, L., and Allen L., 'The On-site Costs of Soil Erosion in Mali," World Bak
Envirnment Worcing Paper 21, Washington, 1989.
J/    Lal, R., 'Effects of Soil Erosion on Crop Productivity,' CRC Critical Review of Plant
Sciences S(4), 1987.
_/    Nye, P., and Greenlad D., -The Soil under Shifting Cultivation, Commonwealth Bureau of
Soils Technical Communication Sl, Fanham Royal, 1960.



- 56 -                               Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
farmers or communities can be expected to adopt land management technologies without
additional financial incentives. Obviously slopes and other factors will vary within zones,
and, therefore, so will potential returns. Returns to incremental labor, which vary over time
subsequent to the adoption of a technology, eventually exceed the farm wage rate in most
cases, sometimes by up to three or four times. However, the low rate of adoption of
conservation technologies to date confirms that most farmers do not find improved land
management for conservation purposes attractive at present.
8.    Economic Analysis of Technologies. Ghana is a food deficit nation and in the
presence of rapid population growth and declining land productivity, imports can be expected
to increase over time, or per capita nutrition fall, unless effective counter-measures are taken.
For soil fertility and erosion control technologies, the economic benefit to the nation will
therefore be a reduced need for food imports brought about by their adoption. While wheat is
the most important grain import, it is coarse grains and rice which are likely to be imported
to close the food gap in the rural areas. Economic pricing of crop production benefit, was
based on CIF pricing of sorghum imports in the North, maize in the Transitional Zone, and
maize-rice in the Forest and Coastal Savanna Zones E/. Biomass producing technologies
require economic pricing of fuelwood and poles. Since wood products are at present freely
obtained from the forest - a stumpage price is not charged on fuelwood and pole production -
their replacement cost is not adequately taken into account. To correct for this distortion,
replacement costs of wood supplies were estimated and added to the financial prices to arrive
at a proxy economic price for wood products.
9.    Quantifying the spatial externalities arising from land degradation is an important
aspect of the economics of land management improvements. Two such externalities were
considered in the analysis, but were difficult to include explicitdy: these were the externalities
associated with forest land degradation and with the sedimentation of dugouts, reservoirs and
Lake 'olta. The former primarily concerns the southern part of Ghana, while the latter
concerns the northern areas. Crop productivity losses from soil degradation are not truly
externalities (except insomuch as they create an inter-generational externality), since their
effects are felt primarily by the farmers themselves. Since benefits from retaining non-timber
forest and woodland values and from controlling the sedimentation of dugouts are liable to be
highly location-specific, no allowance for these benefits was made in the economic analysis.
10.   Results from the economic analysis are contained in Table 4. In general, the use of
economic prices in the technical models raises the rates of return. Of the 33 cases studied, all
but four demonstrate an ERR of at least 10%, the social discount rate used. Based on the
models used and the parameters selected, most forms of conservation appear attractive to the
nation in light of the options of importing food and allowing forests to degrade, although the
costs to Government of initiating an improved land management program have not been
included.
11.   Impliations for Improved Land and Water Management. Providing incentives to
farmers and communities to adopt improved land management practices in the short-term,
S/    in effect, non-tradeable food crop outputs such as sorghum, millet, and cassava are tread as
tradeables as a means of partially internalizng the inter-generational extemalities associated
with imcreased iports or declining per capita nutrition.



- 57 -                             Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
until the long-term benefits become apparent, can be justified on the grounds of timeliness and
cost-effectiveness. Timeliness is of the essence as land degradation can rapidly lead to
irreversible decline in soil fertility and eventually to total loss of the soil, so action is required
in the immediate future. Secondly, from amongst a number of options to maintain or increase
production, such as fertDlizer or seed, improved land management is cost effective, not only
because there are few recurrent costs associated with maintaining the adopted technologies,
but also because it provides a basis for more efficient use of other purchased inputs, for
example better response to fertDlizer on terraced areas due to a better soil moisture regime.
12.   Even if incentives are extended to farmers to encourage adoption of land management
technologies, other factors may hinder success. Incremental labor required to construct
conservation works or adopt new management techniques may not be available. A number of
the technologies require more than 20 days of additional labor per year, possibly beyond the
reach of most smallholder families, either physically or financially. Other technologies, such
as farm forestry and Vetiver hedging require labor at times that conflict with major farm labor
peaks; this again can militate against adoption. Some technologies, such as alley cropping
and fodder banks, remove land from food production and therefore reduce food security in the
short term. Live staking of yam faces a unique barrier: since the farmers using the most
destructive yam-production system are migratory peoples, the incentive system for adoption
of the staking needs to be targeted to landowners and incorporated in agreements allowing
migrants rights to farm. Lastly, mulching and strip cropping face problems of mulch
availability. Innovative targeting of incentives to technologies so as to overcome these
barriers will be necessary.
13.   Community Land and Water Managgment Prorm. The project is designed to enable
the methodology for involving communities in the planning and management of their
resources to be developed in the light of field experience gained during the initial years of the
project. The process would involve selection of communities, based initially on their concern
with land degradation as reported by extension staff, District Assemblies, or NGOs. The
Village Planning Teams would consist of two MOA staff, one with a technical specialization
related to land and water management and one with an understanding of rural sociology.
Their function would be to work in close collaboration with local extension staff and NGOs,
to assist communities to undertake an analysis of problems, and to suggest possible solutions.
This would involve a general reconnaissance to confim that the community as a whole is
willing to participate, that there is an existing community organization, willing and able to
establish a land management committee, and that there are no evident disputes about land
ownership. Extension staff would play a key role m this process, forming the linkage
between the community and the Village Planning Team. Diagnostic surveys based on
participatory appraisal would then be undertaken, focusing on land management problems,
involving the preparation of sketch maps, and the collection of data on land use, tenure rights,
local custom. and taboos. The team would then work with the community to help to identify
appropriate and feasible solutions to recognized land management prolblems and would
arrange visits by community members to demonstration areas. Possible technical options have
been described in Chapter 3. A plan of action, specifying the actions to be taken by
community groups, individual farmers and other land users, and the support to be provided by
the project, would then be drawn up together with the community by the Village Planning
Team. The team would then assist with field lay-out of necessary measures and ensure
delivery of planting material and other inputs. Extension staff would play an important role
throughout the process and ensure continued use of improved practices and maintenance of



-58 -                               Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
any vegetative measures or structures. They would also alert the Village Planiing Teams to
the need for additional visits to modify or expand the plans agreed with the community.
14.   The Village planning teams would operate within priority districts in each region, to
be decided through a participatory process, involving District Assembly members, Regional
and District Agricultural staff, and others with relevant information. Priorities within each
district would be decided following a rapid reconnaissance by the Village Planning Team,
based on division of the district into micro-watersheds. It is expected that each Village
Planning Team would be able to initiate work in two communities per year. The teams would
need to build community trust and confidence over a period of time and maintain contact
throughout the period of plan implementation. The first two years of the project would be
devoted to development of methodologies and initial training, including the preparation of
village plans for two communities. In subsequent years, as more Village Planning Teams are
trained, sustained assistance would be provided to 36 communities: four in Year 3, 16 in Year
4 and 36 in Year 5. In addition, 10 more communities would be served through the training
program.
15.   Incentive Sysm. Two thrusts to the incentive system are visualized. One involves
the provision of needed inputs for the implementation of land management technologies te
fiuly or partially subsidized prices, while the other concerns assistance with the often high
labor costs of technology implementation. The latter becomes especially important where
there is little if any out-of-pocket input cost associated with a technology, the case with many
of the improved land management techniques considered here. Conceptually, the total
incentive provided should be related to the shortfall in the private profitability of technology
adoption, that is, it should reflect the amount needed to induce adoption of an appropriate
technology. Sample calculations of this shortfall show that the values are highly correlated
with the total on-farm costs of technology adoption during the first three years.
16.   Specific proposals have been developed for incentive packages to be provided for the
adoption of proposed technologies in particular ecological zones. Generally, the incentive is
calculated to compensate adopting farmers or communities for the difference between short-
term financial and long-term economic returns on the investment. Proposed incentives are
expressed in terms of the costs of some purchased inputs and/or community labor in the first
few years, with communities expected to contribute land, additional labor, and in some cases
additional cash. Communities or farmers would be fully responsible for the recurrent costs of
maintenance in subsequent years.
17.   The village land and water management plans to be developed under the project would
include specific agreement on the inputs to be provided by the community and the support to
be provided by the project. Communities should be aware of the cash value of their
entitlement and should have the opportunity to decide how it would be spent. Thus, they
could decide to buy through local suppliers, to earn funds for community projects by
providing unpaid labor, or to pay community workers for their labor inputs. The plan would
also specify the way in which funds would be managed by the community, for example,
through a community bank account, and the procedures by which community contributions
would be verified as d pre-condition for the release of funds. Community accounts relative to
the village land and water management plan would be open for inspection on the spot by local
or central program staff and by donors on request.



-59 -                              AhM2
Page 6 of 13
18.   In order to provide an estimate of the amount that one community might earn in the
way of incentives, the following assumptions were made, based on calculations presented in
Working Paper 6 (See Annex 17):
Activity                  Area         Incentive           Total
ha.        Cedis/ha            Incentive
(Cedis)
Stone lines                5           27,000              135,000
Fodder bank               10           80,000              800,000
Ridging - annual 5 yrs    20            4,500              450,000
Vetiver hedging           50           10,000              500,000
Private woodlots           0.5         200,000             100,000
Community woodlot          4           200,000             800,000
TOTAL               90                            2,785,000
The village land management plan could include the protection of a much larger area,
including areas treated with financially feasible technologies that would not require financial
incentives.
19.    1 =         e_ . To prov;de a means of making earned incentives available
to communities, a Land Management Fund would be created. Donor funds would be
deposited in an account k'pened by the Ministry of Agriculture in a commercial bank. The
account would have two signatories, the Program Coordinator for Land and Water
Management and a financial officer from the Ministry. During the first two years of the
project, the signature of a member of the international technical assistance team would also be
required.
20.   Programming the use of the Fund would start in Project Year 2, as the first
communities become involved through the training program. Villages where land
management plans are completed under both the regular program and the training program
would be eligible to apply for ineentive payments from the Fund, through the Village
Planning Teams and the local extension agent. Communities assisted by NGOs trained
through the program would also be eligible to apply for incentives.
21.   Applications for assistance would be used to formulate annual expenditure programs
for the Fund, starting in Year 2, for expenditures in Year 3. Each expenditure program
would be reviewed and approved by the Land and Water Management Project Operations
Committee. Following approval of the program, village teams and participating extension
agents and NGOs would be notified when the next year's funds would be available. The
village teamu would then assist communities to prepare disbursement applications, following
whatever certification procedures have been agreed locally and approved bv the program staff.
Funds could be requested in advance to purchase inputs sL,ch as seedlings, tools or land
preparation services. Funds intended to compensate local labor would be provided to the
community as soon as possible after the labor contribution has been made. Upon receipt of



- 60-                               Ane2
Page 7 of 13
the disbursement application, certified by the local program staff, the Central Unit would
arrange for the transfer of the agreed amount to the specified community account.
22.   The Central Unit would keep accounts of disbursements fom the Fund to community
groups and would periodically monitor the local program staff and communities to ensure that
the fnxds were actually used for the intended purposes.



- 61 -                   Annex 2
Table 1
Page 8 of 13
Type of Degradation                                     Immediate Causes
lrosion
A. Gully Ernsion                      Poor road design; inadequate urban drainage; cultivation on
steep slopes; badly aligned footpaths; destruction of
vegetation cover.
B. Sheet Erosion                     inadequate on-farm conservation; over-exposure of
cultivated soil to rain splash at critical seasons; intensive
cultivation, leading locally to soil capping and compaction
due to organic matter loss; overgrazing; destruction of tree
cover.
C. Wind Erosion                      Inadequate on-farm conservation; overgrazing; destruction
of tree cover.
Soil Degradation
D. Declining Soil Fertility           Shortened bush fallow; inadequate supply of farmyard
manure (FYM) and inorganic fertilizers; impoverished soils;
intensive cultivation without nutrient replenishment.
E. Soil Sodicity and Salinity        Inappropriate irrigation or cultivation practices.
F. Soil Physical Deterioration       Inappropriate cultivation practices, e.g. tractor cultivation of
soils liable to compaction; depletion of orgAnic matter
during cultivation.
Degradation of Vegetation
G. Rangeland Degradation              Overstocking; bush burning; destruction of tree cover;
increasing aridity.
H. Deforestation, including           Clearing for agriculture; over-
degradation of savanna             exploitation for timber and firewood;
woodland                           burning.
jSlo2icalban
I. Flooding/Siltation                Destruction of catchment vegetation; urban drainage;
inadequate coastal protection and on-farm conservation.
J. Wetland Degradation               Clearing and drainage for agriculture, e.g. wheat
cultivation, dam construction; irrigation development.
K. Coastal Erosion                   Vegetation destruction; inadequate coastal protection.



-62 -                                      Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
Table 2. One-Time Yield Increments Associated with Teghnology Adoption*
Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project
COASTAL
SAVANNAH        TRANSITIONAL    FOREST    SAVANNA
TECHNOLOGY                            ZONE              ZONE           ZONE           H
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ Z O N E
Soil Fertilit Enhancing Technologes:                                                                           l
1. Alley Cropping                                                           20%           10%
2. Woody Fallow                                                                                                l
3. Live "'am Staking
4. Animal Traction (1)                                     5%
5. Animal Traction (2)                                     5%
6. Fodder Bank                                            50%
Water and Soil Conservation Technologies:
7. Mulching                                               10%               10%            5%
8. Ridging                                                10%               10%             -          10%
9. Stone Lines                                            15%
10. Strip Cropping (3)                                                                                        |
11. Strip Cropping (4)                                                                                        l
12. Vetiver with Bunding                                   9%                5%            1%           9%
Biomass Enhancing Technologies:                  _                 _     _     _                           --_ _
13. Private Woodlot                                         -1                      I 
14. Comamunity Woodlot                                                              I       .
FS. Farm Forestry                              I           6%
Source: FACP Report
(*)     Values reflect minor revisions to FAO/CP report results for woody fallow, animal
traction, and mulching; details provided in Annex 2.
(1)    Ridger only
(2)     Ridger and Cultivator
(3)    With Groundnuts
(4)    With Cowpea
Ane1bl2



Table 2...                                - 63 -                                       Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
ping          ITA studies in Nigeria over the years have demonstrated yield improvements for maize in excess of 40%
under alley cropping (Ngambeki and Wilson, 1984; Ngambeki, 1985). For cassava under southeastern
Nigerian conditions, Kang ct al, (1989) reported yields of 15 to 20 t/ha on alley farmed areas compared to
14 t/ha on traditional plots with no fertilizer. AUey farm yields vary according to whether pruning is or is
not applied with or without fertilizer, and depending on the tr , species planted in the hedgers. Because of
the early stage of research in Ghana, a conservative 20% yield gain was assumed for sole maize and a 10%
increment with maize-cassava.
ow            Yield increments fromn adoption of this technology would be conceptually similar to those of alley
cropping, with the fallowing considerations: tree densities per ha are lower but nitrogen is fixed and leaf
litter builds up for 5 years before crops are grow.i. However, to be conservative no yield increment was
assumed. Field testing will be necessary to confirm whether this assumption is reasonable.
ction         There is considerable debate conceming yield gains under animal traction. Pingall et al, (1984) review a
large number of studies and conclude the yield impact is minimal, especially when observing an individual
farmer convert to animal traction from the hoe without an improvement in the quality of tillage. Yet Panin
(1987) found that yields were 16.3% higher on farmers in Northern Ghana where anirra.I traction was used
compared to hoc farms. Since Panin's data is cross-sectional rather than longitudinal, a yield improvement
of only 5% was assumed here.
k             LCA researchers have demonstrated large yield gains for maize planted in rotation with styla-based fodder
banks. Mohammed Saleem et al, (1985) report a doubling of yie!ds on fodder banks compared to yields on
lands fallowed for many years. Tarawall et al, (1987) report an 85% increase for test plots in the sub-
humid zone. A conservative figure of 50% was assumed here.
Research by Lawes at Samaru, Nigeria is quoted by Jones and Wild (1975). Lawes found a 28% average
increment on mulched sorghum plots compared to those without mulch. To more closely represented on-
farm conditions, a lower figure of 10% was used for the Savanna and transitional zones, and a lower 5%
was used for the Forest Zone, where more tolerant cassava is cultivated.
Little data was found by the mission concerning specific yield increments associated with ridging. Benefits
are liable to vary yearly according to rainfall conditions, with negative effects possible in heavy rainfaU
years. Since farmers have readily adopted ridging in parts of the North, it was assumed some benefit must
be evident; a 10% increment was used for the Savanna and Transitional areas, while in the Forest Zone,
where rainfall is much heavier, no increment was allowed.
OXFAM's project in Burkino Faso demonstrated yield gains from 9% to 40%, depending on rainfaU
conditions (Younger and Bonkoungou, 1989), with the lower figure referring to benefits achieved in the
Guinea Savanna. For Ghana's Sudan Savanna Zone, a slightly higher figure of 15% was assumed, but
again rainfall conditions will be important in determining ultimate yield benefits.
i Bunding     For the Forest Zone, Wiggins (1981), in an analysis of steeper slopes and higher rainfal conditions in El
Salvador a&lowed for a 1% yield increment initially to account for retention of fertilizer and seeds; he also
included a gradual rise in crop productivity as soil builds u' behind the conservation works. For Ghana's
Forest Zone, a 1% figure was judged appropriate. For the dryer Savanna a 9% increment was used, based
on conditions similar to those of stone lines. For the Transitional Zone an intermediate 5% figure was
used.
;q        Data from ICRAF (1989) specifying the yield inceements in the immediate vicinity of acacla trees was
extrapolated to a per ha benefit based -n hc p' ating schedule assumed. The increment assumed per ha is
consistent with the 5-10% yield benefit used by Anderson (1987) in his analysis of farm forestry under
similar circumstances in Nigeria.
References are provided in the FAO/CP report.



- 64 -                                    Annex 2
Page 11 of 13
Table 3. Financial Rates of Return for Land Management Technologies*
Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project
_  =  =                         COASTAL
SAVANNAH       TRANSITIONAL    FOREST    SAVANNA
TECHNOLOGY                           ZONE              ZONE           ZONE           H
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  Z O N E
Soil Ferility Enhancing Technologies:
1. Alley Cropping                                                          -1.5%        18.8%
2. Woody Fallow                                         22.1%             20.4%         20.1%
3. Live Yam Staking                                                       26.5%
4. Animal Traction (1)                                  12.9%
S. Animal Traction (2)                                  16.3%
6. Fodder Bank                                           8.3%
Water and Soil Conservation Technologies: 
7. Mulching                                              2.8%             93.6%        100.0%
8. Ridging                                               6.8%              8.6%         79.9%       72.0%
9. Stone Lines                                           2.6%
10. Strip Cropping (3)                                 -18.5%              8.5%        100.0%       65.8%
11. Strip Cropping (4)                                  -5.9%
12. Vetiver with Bunding                                16.1%             -14.4%         8.6%        1.5%
Biomass Enhancing Technologies:                |
13. Private Woodlot                                      10.6%                          10.6%        9.6%
14. Community Woodlot                                     7.1%                          12.7%        9.8%
15. Farm Forestry                                        18.4%j________1
Sourcc: FAOICP Report
(*)    Values reflect minor revisions to FAOICP report results for woody fallow, animal
tracdon, and mulching; details provided in Annex 2.
(1)    Ridger only
(2)    Ridger and Cultivator
(3)    With Groundnuts
(4)    With Cowpea



- 65 -                                      Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
Table 4. Economic Rates of Return for Lod Managemen Technologlea*
Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project
I                       ~~~~~COASTAL
SAVANNAH        TRANSITIONAL    FOREST    SAVANNA
TECHNOLOGY                            ZONE               ZONE           ZONE            H
_   _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _    _ _  _  _  _ _  I _  _ _  _  _  _   _  _ _  _      Z O N E
Soil 'ertily Enhanoing Technologies:                                                   _
1. Alley Cropping                                                            1.8%         18.7%
2. Woody Fallow                                           34.9%             33.5%         32.4%
3. Live Yam Staking                                                         26.2%
4. Animal Traction (1)                                    13.9%
5. Animal Traction (2)                                    16.5%
6. Fodder Bank                                            16.5%
Water and Soil Conservation Technologies:
7. Mulching                                               17.5%             100.0%       100.0%
8. Ridging                                                17.0%              16.8%        85.5%        81.2%
9. Stone Lines                                            28.9%
10. Strip Cropping (3)                                   -12.6%             '2.0%        100.0%        69.4%
11. Strip Cropping (4)                                    -1.1%
12. Vetiver with Bunding                                 29.8%               -1.4%        20.2%        14.7%
Biomass Enhancing Technologies:
13. Private Woodlot                                       12.5%                           15.7%        16.4%
14. Community Woodlot                                     14.5%                           18.3%        18.5%
15. Farm Forestry                                 __               4%
Source: FAC/CP Report
(M)     Values relect minor revisions to FAO/CP report result for woody fallow, animal
traction, and mulching; details provided in Ajmex 2.
(I)     Ridger only
(2)     Ridger and Cultivator
(3)     With Groundnuts
(4)     With Cowpea
An2b4



- 66 -                                     Annex2
Page 13 of 13
Table 5. Labour Inpul Rates for Land Management Technologies (djbAj*
Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project
, ,                                .. . COASTAL
SAVANNAH        TRANSITIONAL    FOREST    SAVANNA
TECHNOLOGY                            ZONE              ZONE           ZONE            H
.   _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _ ._      _  _ _  _    _ _  _  _  _ _  j _  _ _  _     Z O N E
Soil Fertility Enhancing Technologies:
1. Alley Cropping                                                             60            60
2. Woody Fallow                                             53                53            53
3. Live Yam Staking                                                          115
4. Animal Traction (1)                                      53
5. Animal Traction (2)                                      60
6. Fodder Bank                                              74
Water and Soil Conservation Techbologies:                                                         _
7. Mulching                                                 19                26           55
8. Ridging                                                  60                60           60           60
9. Stone Lines                                              66
10. Strip Cropping (3)                                     60                 75          (97)          (77)
11. Strip Cropping (4)                                     (45)
12. Vetiver with Bunding                        I          27                 54          136          136
Biomass Enhancing Technologies:
13. Private Woodlot                                        140                      |     236          140
14. Community Woodlot                                      110                      1     230          110
15. Farm Forestry                                          is                                    i
Source: FAO/CP Report
(M)     Labour input total for first 3 years after technology adoption; totals include
labour for live fencing establishment where required, hiring out of animal
tracdon equipment, but excludes any harvesting labour.
(1)     Ridger only
(2)     Ridger and Cultivator
(3)    With Groundnuts
(4)     With Cowpea
AwubIS



- 67 -                                Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Action Plan
Preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan was coordinated by the
Environmental Protection Council and published in 1991. Its main recommendations are as
follows: 1/
Land Resources Management
-     Establish a body to be responsible for policy, planning, coordination
and monitoring of land-based development programs and projects;
-     Institute land-use planning to ensure harmony in the allocation and use
of land for different purposes;
-     Adopt land tenure/land management policy and establish appropriate
institutional framework;
-     Strengthen the legal and administrative machinery for land acquisition
and tenure, including proper maintenance of land title and transaction
records;
-     Review, enforce, update and approve a stronger anti-bushfire law.
Forestry and Wildlife
-     Adopt forest management policy;
-     Establish protected woodlands;
-     Adopt revised conservation laws and regulations;
-     Adopt range management policy;
-     Register charcoal burners and commercial wood producers.
Water Management
-     Establish the proposed Water Resources Commission;
-     Adopt the proposed Water Law;
-     Adopt policy framework for the extraction of water for different uses,
integrated planning for river basins, and the control of waste discharge
into water bodies;
-     Establish watershed protection areas.
Marine and Coastal Ecosystems
-     Adopt fisheries management policy;
-     Adopt proposed legislation and regulation on coastai zone
management;
-     Establish protected areas in coastal wetlands.
I/    Legislative reform will require additional govemmental action and approval.



- 68 -                              Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Human Settlements
-     Adopt human settlements policy law to provide a framework for
planning and managing settlements;
-     Establish a Human Settlements Unit to act as the central authority for
planning, development, improvement and management of human
settlements;
-     Review, update and approve the National Physical Development
Framework.
Pollution Control
-     Prepare and adopt regulations for environmental control of mining
operations;
-     Prepare and adopt regulations for environmental control of industrial
operations;
-     Adopt proposed legislation to control the import and use of pesticides
and other hazardous chemicals;
-     Adopt revised Factories, Offices and Shops Act;
-     Adopt revised incentive scheme for siting of small scale industries;
-     Adopt incentive system for greater energy efficiency in industry.
Schedule of Necessarv Actions
1.    A number of the recommendations are already being implemented and others will be
supported through on-going or planned sectoral projects. Thus, mechanisms for land
acquisition and titling are being developed. The development of land use planning
procedures, the establishment of protected woodlands, the establishment of watershed
protection areas and protected areas in coastal wetlands are all either underway or are to be
supported through projects that will be effective in 1993.
2.    The target date for adoption of legislation relating to Environmental Impact
Assessment, conservation laws and regulations, the Factories and Shops Act, and the import
and use of pesticides and hazardous chemicals is December 1993. This will require the
following steps:
Action                                  Target Date
Completion of draft legislation                      March 1993
Review by Attorney General's Office                  June 1993
Submission to Government for approval                September 1993
Approval                                             December 1993
3.    An anti-bushfire law has already been approved. Legislation relating to the
environmental control of mining and industry can only be realistically drafted in the light of
environmental quality data which would be collected with the support of th-is project.
Similarly, project financed monitoring of the coastal wetlands would provide a firm basis for
drafting appropriate coastal zone managemeut legislation. The target date for completion of
draft legislation would be March, 1995, when data from two years of project financed
monitoring would be available. Further actions would be agreed during the project mid-term
review.



- 69 -                             Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
4.    The development of a forest management policy is supported through the IDA
Forestry Project and a range management policy statement has been agreed as part of an IDA
National Livestock Services Project. Land, water and human settlement policies and
associated institulonal responsibilities are closely inter-related, presenting a complex mosaic of
social and economic issues, with ramifications far beyond environmental resource use. They
have been under consideration for some considerable time in Ghana and are unlikely to be
resolved rapidly. The environmental management system to be developed under the project is
designed to pro uide the mechanism for the development of the inter-sectoral concensus that is
required to define policies that can be implemented. The date of the mid-term review would,
therefore, be an appropriate target date for completion of draft policy statements, with review
leading to agreement on firm datm for their adoption.



-70 -                                 Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
GEANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local Partidpation and the Role of Women
1.    Intrduction. The strategy for implementation of the Envirenmental Action Plan
(EAP) is based on Involvement of the Environmental Protection Council (EPC), sectoral
agencies and institutions, District Assemblies (DA), community groups and NGOs.
Establishment of linkages between all these agencies is the core of the proposed environmental
resource management system, supported through the project. The role of EPC in this system
is described in the main report. This Annex focuses on the way in which communities and
women would participate in the planning and implementation of programs to manage their
env,onment, and in particular higlights the role they would play In project financed
activities,
2.    wDistrict Assemblies.  The EAP states that ' District Assemblies have a central role
to play in the implementation of the Environmental Action Plan... in recognition of the fact
that national policies and programs on the environment can best be translated into action at the
local and district levels". There are 110 Districts in Ghana for a population of about 15
million, so each district represents roughly 135,000 people. Elected District Assembly
members include traditional chiefs, members of grassroots political groups, such as
Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDRs) and 31st December Women's
Movement, schoolteachers and other local opinion leaders. District Environmental
Mlanagement Committees are being formed by each DA, and Community Environmental
Commitees established, where appropriate, to promote public discussions and to mobilize
local resources for environmental action.
3.     GQQs. The UNDP Africa 2000 Network Project has compiled an inventory of over
300 community-based NGOs in CGhana, many of whom are interested in undertaking
environmental action on a local scale. In 1991, UNDP/Ghana organized a workshop on the
EAP that was attended by about 100 local NGOs. At the national level, some 75 NGOs have
registered with the Ghana Association of Private Voluntary Organizations in Development
(GAPVOD). About half of these groups are active in environmental work. Several
international NGOs with environmental agendas are active in Ghana, including Friends of the
Earth, Technoserve, Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA), World Vision,
Action Aid, Catholic Relief Services, Ricerca Cooperazione (Italy), and Oxfam. The
participation of both international and local NGOs in projects such as urban beautification,
non-formal environmental education, afforestation and agroforestry, and projects for the
management of woodlands, watersheds and wildlife is gready encouraged under the Plan, in
collaboration with local authorities and community groups.



- 71 -                                Annex4
Page 2 of 4
4.    The Role of Women. Ghanaian womn are extremely active in environmental affairs
at all levels, from the day-to-day management of farming and household activities, to
participation as scientists and engineers working in the national institutions charged with
environmental research and enviromnental management. Women are especially active in
community groups and NGOs. There are no formal barriers to their participation in bodies
such as District Assemblies or cooperative groups. Thus, women play an active part in
community decision-making, both within their own groups and in broader community
discussions. They play a key role in the management of household and community finances
and are widely involved in marketing cash crops. Women are frequently elected to serve as
Treasurer to community groups because of theiftacknowledged skills in financial management.
Ghana even has its own indigenous female banking network. Women have been at the
forefront of the grassroots environmental movement in Ghana, making explicit linkages
between environmental issues and women's concerns for food security, water and fuelwood,
family health, and the future of their children. The women's groups that are found in most
areas could become involved in land improvement activities with a communal focus, as well
as individual farmers.
5.    Women have a very direct impact on the environment as they are actively involved in
farming throughout the country; data indicate that the majority of persons employed in
agriculture are women. A significant proportion of women in the coastal and forest zones are
also "owner-operators." Formally, there is no gender-based restriction on access to land.
However, customary practices such as the inheritance system, land allocation systems within
lineages, and traditional beliefs such as taboos in some areas against women owning or
inheriting land, may limit women's access to land. In some areas, despite a reasonable
degree of security of tenure including the right to divide land among both sons and daughters,
women have no rights to make improvements to the land without consulting the male head of
the clan first. Planting of trees and/or harvesting of tree products by women may depend
upon the head's permission. In other areas, insecurity of tenure may discourage women from
making long-term improvements on the land they farm. Farming activities carried out by
women include planting, weeding, harvesting, storage, transport, and marketing. Despite
their involvement in nearly all farming activities, they cultivate smaller holdings, begin
cultivation at a later stage than men (because they first must work on their husband's farm),
and are mainly involved in food crop farming rather than cultivation of industrial or export
crops. Collecting water and gathering firewood is nearly always the women's task.
6.    The situation in the savanna zone is different. According to data from the Ministry of
Agriculture, only 2% of farmers in the Northern Region a s women. However, this figure
fails to reflect the real involvement of women in this region in agricultural production.
Women are involved in planting, fertilizer application, weeding and harvesting, processing
and marketing crops. Land is allocated to women by their husbands, generally land that has
already been cropped by the hushand and would normally have been left fallow. On this land
women practice a reduced tillage system by planting on the old ridges with minimal
disturbance to the soil. In some areas women also work as hired labor to obtain cash for
personal and family needs.



-72 -                                 Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
7.    In the Upper East and Upper West Regions, women are actively involved in fariing,
although they have less independence than in southern Ghana in cultivating their own plots.
Under the traditional land tenure system, women are not guaranteed rights to land. However.
they usually receive an allocation of land from their husbands, and men and women work
together in carrying out farming tasks. Data from the Ministry of Agriculture show 30% of
the land holders in Upper East Region to be females, but only 4% in Upper West Region.
Women in the coastal zone are involved in fish processing and marketing, in small-scale and
commercial farming, and in urban and industrial activities, particularly food and beverage
processing and wholesale and retail trade.
8.    Participatory Approaches in Project Financed Activities. Implementation of the three
main project components would involve the participation of local authorities, community
groups, NGOs and women. 'he component supporting the development of the Enviromnental
Resource Management System would provide training in environmental management for over
200 district level staff and DA members. This would facilitate the work of the District
Environmental Committees, which are charged with establishing and enforcing local
enviromnental regulations, protecting local environmental resources, and advising on local
development plans and projects, as well as organizing local participation in project
environmental impact assessments. The primary task of EPC's regional mobile teams would
be to transmit environmental information to district leaders and community groups, and to
promote their active involvement in identifying and addressing local environmental problems.
EPC would also coordinate the activities of national and local NGOs in the area of non-formal
environmental education. It would assist these activities by developing training materials and
publications, based on a strategy to be developed in a participatory and consultative manner,
with assistance that will most likely come from an international NGO. It is expected that a
local NGO would be working with EPC under the project to disseminate environmental
messages through thef media to the public at large.
9.    Land and  ater Management. The community-based approach to the introduction of
improved land an-i water management practices is discussed in Annex 2. The experience
gained by NJ3Os in Ghana with community participation in a range of development activities
would be an important input to the project. Consequently, the project provides for a national
workshop involving all groups who have experience in this area to share. The workshop
would provide an opportunity for exchange of information among NGOs as well as between
NGOs and Govermnent agencies, and would enable local NGOs to have an [iput to the
training program design from the very beginning. It would also serve to inform NGOs of the
opportunity provided for them to participate in the training program, and to gain access to
project resources for their own community-based programs. A second workshop is planned
following the project mid-term review, and a third at the end of the project. These would
allow the NGO community to participate actively in project monitoring and evaluation
activities.
10.   Coastal Wetland Management. Community involvement in the management of coastal
wetland areas would be essential and the project provides for this through the establishment of
Site Committees. These would include the relevant traditional community leaders, District
Assembly officers, ana representatives of key local interest groups. The CDRs and 31st
December Women's Movement groups in each community can provide channels for
communication of environmental messages and discussion of project proposals with the



-73-                                  Ann"x4
Page 4 of 4
affected people. To the extent feasible, villagers living near the protected areas would be
directly involved in project activities, as guides and research assistants. The project would
also assist the affected communities to develop land management plans to meet id1entified
needs, such as fuelwood, in an environmentally sound manner. Priority attention to these
areas by the Village Land Management Teams would be ensured by focusing fieldwork for
the training program in these areas. Details of specific site management plans would be
discussed with the affected communities in meetings organized by the Site Committee in
coordination with the District Assemblies in each area. The findings of research to be
undertaken under the project may indicate the need for changes in land use or controls on
industrial activities or commercial farming in the upper catchments. Any such controls would
be decided by the District Assemblies, and enacted as local bye-laws.
11.   Women in Project Activities. Women would have an important role to play in the
implementation of the project. Women are well represented on the professional staff of EPC
and in the research institutions to be supported under the project. The current Acting
Executive Chairman of EPC is a woman and EPC has a Senior Women's Advisory Group
(SWAG) modeled on that of UNEP. It is expected that a significant number of those who
benefit from training as Village Team members under the Land and Water Management
component of the project would be women. One of the three members of the project core
team within the Ministry of Agriculture would be a woman, as is the principal author and
advocate of the Coastal Wetland Management component. About twenty percent of the staff
of the agricultural extension service are women. The important role that women would play
in community based activities has already been discussed. Thus, the full involvement of
women at all levels and in all phases of project implementation is to be expected. The only
area in which particular attention would need to be paid to involving women would be in
environmental education and land management activities in the northern part of the country.
Here, lessons can be learned from initiatives previously undertaken by the Bank, other
donors, and NGOs. By giving proper consideration to local cultural factors, it has proved
possible to find ways of involving women in environmental education and environmental
management activities, as well as in environmental decision-making at the local and district
levels.



-74-                                  Amex5
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Studies and InvestigatiMns
Terms of Reference
I. VOLTA RIVER BASIN DEVELOPMENT. STUDY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
1.1   Inrduction. The Volta River Basin within Ghana extends through all the major
ecological zones of the country. Two major dams have been constructed on the river, at
Akosombo and Kpong, for hydro-electric power generation. Downstream of the dam the
river flows through a coastal zone with associated lagoons and wetlands. The construction of
the Akosombo dam resulted in the formation of the Volta Lake that covers an area of almost
8,500 km2. The reservoir and associated river systems now provide water f)r multiple uses
by a large population. In addition to the hydro-electric power generation the water is used for
domestic water supplies, irrigation, livestock watering, transportation, local fisheries,
aquaculture, and recreation. It also supports a diverse natural flora and fauna. The relatively
stable water supply provided by the Volta River system has been the focus of continuing
development in Ghana. This has direct impact on the environment of the lake and its
surroundings and has resulted in a number of direct and indirect conflicts over the use of
water. As existing developments expand and new developments are proposed, their
environmental impact will become more significant and resource use conflicts can be expected
to increase, and these terms of reference are for a study to investigate these environmental
concerns.
1.2    Objectives. The main objectives of this study would be to describe the existing,
planned and possible future developments and their likely environmental impact and to
identify possible resource use conflicts in the Volta Basin in Ghana, and to formulate a
strategy for minimizing adverse environmental effects, whilst maintaining development
initiatives.
1.3   Terms of Reference. Outline terms of reference are presented below. A
reconnaissance mission to elaborate further the activities to be undertaken is underway, and
details will be included in the final project documents.
1.4   The team of consultants will:
-     Prepare a summary description of the environmental resources of the Volta
Basin within Ghana including climate, hydrology, topography, soils,
vegetation, present land use, farming systems, aquatic biology and fisheries.
The description will be based on review of existing information and field
visits for additional data collection;



-75-                                 Anna5
Page 2 of 7
Describe existing settlement patterns, population distribution, recent
population movements and key demographic features, socio-conomic
characteristics and social and institutional infrastructure;
Describe existing developments and identify any planned or proposed future
developments;
Describe the existing or likely future environmental impact of settlements or
other forms of development;
Identify any resource use conflicts arising from existing or proposed
developments;
Revie*.v the potential for mitigating any adverse environmental effects or
resource use conflicts;
Formulate a strategy for minimizing the environmental consequences of
development within the basin and for ensuring that future development will be
compatible with the sustainable use of the environmental resources;
Prepare draft and final reports setting out the main findings and conclusions.
Team mostio
1.    The team will have expertise in the following fields:
-     Natural resources and environmental managemeni;
Socio-economic assessment;
Land use, settlement planning and rural infrastructure;
- Hydrology;
Fisheries;
Agriculture;
-     Forestry;
-     Ecology.
1X. STUDY OF DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS IN COASTAL WETLANDS
2.1    Qbjectyis. The nain objectives of these studies would be to examine options for
development within the coastal wedand sites designated as of special ecological significance
under the Ramsar Convention. Such recognition does not preclude development but any
development should be compatible with maintaining the ecology of the area. lhe objective of
the studies would, therefore, to develop proposals for development that are consistent with the
status of the sites under the Ramsar Convention. The studies would be a precursor to the use
of the In-restment Support Fund, designed to pilot possible developments in the coastal
wedands.



- 76 -                              Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
2.2    Organization and Managemen. Funds for the studies would be administered by
EPCiTS as the principal project implementation agency. However, NDPC and MFEP would
be amongst the users of the results of the studies and should play an important role in
formulating the terms of reference for the studies. The Project Operations Committee
responsible for Studies and Investigations would be the formal body for consideration of study
proposals and approval of terms of reference. As all these studies would require inputs from
socio-economists, it is proposed that the Institute for Stat. -,cs, Social and Economic Research
(ISSER), University of Ghana, should be involved and the siaff member who would sit on the
Committee could, where appropriate, coordinate team formation and the implementation of
the proposed study.
2.3   Tenrs of Reference. The preparation of the detailed terms of reference for the
studies would be coordinated by the secretary of SIPOC, who would be the Deputy Director
for Inter-Sectoral Networking, EPC/TS, in close consultation with members of SIPOC, who
would approve them. Details would vary but the studies would include examination of:
-     Existing natural resources;
Population;
-     Socio-economic framework;
-     -wTechnical development proposals;
Financial and economic snalysis of development proposals;
Assczsment of the impact of the developments on the ecology of the
lagoon.
The results of the studies would be presented in a report with accompanying maps as
necessary.
m. STUDIES OF ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGIES
3.1   Introduction. The Environmental Action Plan (L. P) identified the integration of
environmental considerations into development planning as one of the principal challenges for
effective environmental management in Ghana. It -an be attributed to the fact that
environmental concerns have not been explicitly integrated with social and economic planning
in the past. This has been due in part to the lack of information and in part to limitations in
analytical capabilities.
3.2   The preparation of the EAP reflects the importance Government now gives to
environmental concerns. It stresses the inter-sectoral nature of environmental management,
that must necessarily incorporate social and economic factors. The Environmental Resource
Management Project provides funds for improving the collection of much land related
information and provides a framework for integration of all spatial data. The studies
described here are designed to assist Government to utilize both the improved land
information and existing data available from other agencies.



~ 77 -                             AnnexS
Page 4 of 7
3.3    Qbjectives. The main objective of these studies would be to enable rflanners at the
national leve! to examine the environmental consequences of various development strategies,
specifically linking the natural resource base with demographic and economic information.
The objective is, therefore, to establish a dialogue between analysts and planners in order to
build models that integrate environment, population and development concerns. Initially the
model may be relatively si.mple, but through an interactive process, the objective would be to
improve its relevance and robustness.
3.4    Organization and Management. Project funds for the studies would be administered
by EPC/TS as the main project implementing agency. NDPC and MFEP would be amongst
the main users of the results of the studies and would play an important role in formulating
detailed terms of reference. The Studies and Investigations Project Operations Committee
(SIPOC) would be the formal body for consideration of stt dy proposals and approval of terms
of reference. The Institute for Statistics, Social and Economic Research (ISSER), University
of Ghana, could provide many of the skills needed to undertake the studies, but consultants
would be drawn from as wide a range of Ghanaian institutions as possible. An association
with a foreign institution with expertise in environmental and development policy analysis
would assist study implementation, and this could be sougt hrough twinning arrangements
developed through EPC/TS.
3.5   Termsof Reference. Detailed terms of reference would be drawn up and approved by
SIPOC, and these would differ with the nature of the development option being investigated.
However, to examine the linkages between environment, population and development options,
there are a number of common tasks that consultants would have to undertake. These ,re
summarized below.
3.6   The coraultants will:
Collect available data. These will include project financed land information,
in digital and paper formats, related to a standardized framework prepared by
the Survey Department. Other relevant data, notably population, social
indicators, forestry and water resources data will be collected and geo-
referenced to the same base as the land information.
Analyze current and theoretical population carrying capacity. The population
carrying capacity of the land can be defined as the population for which it can
provide environmentally dependent goods, the foremost being food, water and
fuel. It provides only a limited view of the relationship between population
and resources, because it is essentially static, or closed. Nevertheless, it
provides the first step towards developing more sophisticated models. Present
land use, population and production factors will, therefore, be examined to
analyze present carrying capacity at district, regional, or national levels.
Analysis of land suitability, projections of future population and the impact of
increased population on resources, through soil erosion, loss of forest cover,
or declining agrimultural yields will be use to assess theoretical future
population canrying capacity. A comparison of current and theoretical
capacities will be made.



- 78-                                Annex5
Page 5 of 7
Evaluate the impact on carrying capacity of changes in human development
indicator. The primary impact of people on the environment is modified by
their socio-economic status. Education, extension and the availability of
health services or credit may change production systems and lead to higher
productivity without environmental degradation. Indicators may also reflect
changes in preferences, and be influenced by changes in trade, or inflows and
outflows of labor or capital. The consultants will make estimates of the
changes in population carrying capacity that would result from changes in
human development indicators.
Establish resource based models of population movement and growth.
Sequences of population movement will be modelled, based on attractiveness
surfaces, current land use, land suitability, land ownership and socio-economic
data. This will include rural exodus and colonization of new areas and the
impact of new developments.
-  Poject land use related to population change. Modifications in present land
use that result from changes in population will be projected, linked to
differing production technologies.
Model the impact of specific development strategies on the environment. The
impact of differing development strategies will be modelled, based on analyses
of the effect of the strategy on resource use, population and investment needs.
- Model the impact of Government policy changes on the environment. Simple
models will be prepared of those policy changes that have a clear and direct
impact on the environment. The impact of many policy changes will be much
less clear and models will be so complex that their utility will be in question
and this will be assessed after preliminary work.
IV. STUDIES OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS AT DISTRICT LEVEL
4.1    Objectives. District Enviromnental Committees have been established in almost all
Districts to coordinate action at the district level to address environmental concerns. It is
clear that these concerns differ from district to district. Project funded workshops are
designed to provide district level staff a better understanding of approaches to the management
of the environment, but there will remain a need for detailed studies of specific problems.
The objective of making project finance available for such studies is to enable the District
Environmental Committees to commission studies to resolve particular local problems, or to
undertake ELAs for planned developments.
4.2    Organization and Management. Funds for the studies would be administered by the
EPC/TS through its Regional Offices. Priorides would be decided by the Director, advised
by the Deputy Director for Inter-Sectoral Networks. Each study would allow for about six
months of locally recruited consultancy, for example three consultants for two months each.
A total of four studies per year would be financed. The use of the funds would be restricted



- 79 -                              Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
to the payment of consultant fees, and consultant expenses for field operations and report
preparation. The funds could not be used for purchase of equipment or vehicles for long-term
use by the District Environmental Committee.
4.3   Terms of Reference. Detailed terns of reference for individual studies would be
drawn up by the staff of the Regional Offices of EPC, in consultation with the District
Environmental Committee. They would be drawn up in a stan Jard format, as follows:
-     Iroxoduction
-     Objectives
-     Detailed Terms of Reference
-     Team Composition
-     Work Schedule.
V. STUDY OF HYDROLOGICAL IMPROVEMENTS TO SAKUMO LAGOON
5.1   Introduction. The Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project includes
proposals for the management of five coastal wetlands which are of particular significance as
habitats for migratory seabirds. One of these sites, the '-Rkumo Lagoon, situated to the west
of Tema is of particular significance because r 'its proxim., to the urban populations of
Tema and Accra. The lagoon was formerly connected to the stv by a wide natural mouth. In
1957 the lagoon outlet was effectively closed by the construction of the coast road aid rail
line, and was replaced by two 1800mm diameter culverts. Tidal intwrchange is inhibited and
the discharge of flood water during the rainy season is severely restricted. Additionally,
siltation of the lagoon is gradually reducing its capacity, and the lagoon bed is now above
mean sea level.
5.2   Terms of Reference. As part of the Environmental Resource Management Project,
funds will be made available to finance a study to determine the most suitable methods of
improving the lagoon outlet connection to the sea and of dredging the lagoon. These terms of
reference are for consultants to examine the available options, make recommendations as to
the most cost effective methods of achieving the desired improvements and prepare an
environmental assessment of the preferred scheme. Detailed designs and contract documents
will be required for the preferred scheme on approval of the study report and EIA.
5.3   The consultant will:
-     appraise existing reports on and studies of the hydrology of the lagoon and its
catchment;
-     sur'ey the lagoon, the existing out-falls and immed;ate coastline and prepare
plans for design purposes;
-     assess the requirements for a new lagoon outlet in terms of tidal mixing and
flood prevention;



- 80 -                                AmnexS
Page 7 of 7
determine the need for dredging works to maintain the present minimum
lagoon capacity for mean sea level condition;
determine the most appropriate construction and dredging techniques and
phasing of operations to minimize disruption to fishing in the lagoon;
cost any options and determine the most cost effective scheme to achieve the
desired results;
-     carry out an environmental impact assessment of the preferred scheme;
-     prepare a study report including cost estimates and an outline design of the
preferred scheme, including relevant findings and calculations as appendices;
-     on receipt of a review appraisal of the report and EIA, prepare a detailed
design and tender documentation for the work.
5.4    Oualifications. The consultant will be a qualified engineer with a minimum of 15
years experience of the design and construction of hydraulic control structures.



- 81 -                                  '
Pi of 2
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGE:MENT PROJECT
Survey and Mapping
1.    Introduction. An important objective of the project is to improve the availability of
information for the management and monitoring of environmental resources. The project
would specifically aim to improve the availability of topographic, present land use, land
ownersbip, land suitability and meteorological data. However, many other data sets, such as
population, forestry, mining, or water resource data, are presently generated by other
agencies in Ghana. To ensure that spatial information can be readily exchanged amongst
users, it is important that it be presented in a standardized format, geo-referenced to a
common projection and ellipsoid, and prepared to similar standards of accuracy and precision.
Ihe project would, therefore, support the Survey Department with the production of digital
and analog maps, that would provide the framework for all spatial data sets produced in
Ghana. The introduction of the necessary technology would be based on a contractual
arrangement between the Survey Department and a foreign survey and mapping organization,
which would lead to the development of a long-term institutional linkage. This Annex
summarizes the services and equipment o be provided through the contract. Details are
presented in the Statement of Work and Technical Specifications in the contract document.
2.    Objectives. The four pr;3epal objectives of project support to the Survey Department
are:
-     To produce the digital base mapping required as the basis of the
environmental resource management system;
-     To develop digital mapping and GIS expertise within the Survey Department;
-     To rehabilitate the cartographic, photo-laboratory and lithographic facilities to
support hard-copy map production and printing;
-     To print the 1:50,000 scale topographic maps and the 1:250,000 scale
topographic and thematic maps to be produced through the project.
3.    Work and Services. The contractor will be required to provide the following
services:
Final digital mapping system design and final laboratory system design;
Site design and preparation;
Procurement of the digital mapping system, photo-laboratory equipment,
lithographic equipment and software: installation, testing and functional
verification of the photo-laboratory and printing equipment;
Establishment and documentation of comprehensive specifications for the
digital mapping and hard copy products and processes;



-82 -                                  _nK 6
Page 2 of 2
-     Data conversion services;
-     Technology transfer through both long and short-term advisers;
-     Training of Ghanaian personnel at the contractor's production facility;
-     Arrangement and administration of academic programs in GIS;
-     Arrangement and administration of GIS management programs.
4.    Qutput. Tbe contractor and the Survey Department will work together to produce:
-     Digital files of the existing 1:50,000 scale maps (351 quarter degree sheets);
-     Printed copies of the existing 1:50,000 scale maps;
-     Digital Elevat,on Models of each 1:50,000 map;
-     Digital map files at scale 1:250,000 derived from the 1:50,000 scale files (35
one degree sheets);
-     Printed copies of the new, derived 1:250,000 scale maps;
-     Digital Elevation Models of each 1:250,000 scale map.
5.    Other Government agencies will, with the assistance of the Survey Department,
produce thematic overlays at scale 1:250,000 depicting land utilization, land ownership, and
land suitability. These overlays will be integrated with the topographic maps and hard copies
will be printed by the Survey Department.
6.    The contractor will digitize, edit and structure the final digital maps for two thirds
(235) of the 1:50,000 scale maps at his own facility, using his own resources. The contractor
will work with the Survey Department to produce the remaining one third (116) of the final
digital maps files at 1:50,000 scale utilizing the facilities and staff of the Survey Department.
The facilities are to be provided and the staff trained under the terms of the contract.
7.    The contractor will undertake the derivation of one 1:250,000 scale map at his own
facility using his own resources. The contractor will work with the Survey Department to
produce the remainder of the 1:250,000 scale derived mapping utilizing the facilities and staff
of the Survey Department.
S.    The contractor will work with the Survey Department to produce all reproduction
materials and final printed copies of maps utilizing the facilities and staff of the Survey
Department.



GHN
ENV RONMENrAL RESOURCE GMANAGEMENT FROJEC
CEDI                               Six                             X Total
..------..----------.-----.--------    ---------------------------   Z Foreign        Base
Local    Foreign       Total       Local Foreign    Total       Exchwwge       costs
A. ENVIROdENT  ANAGENEET
1. INSTIT. SUPTORI TO EPC/T3    879438.7  1207081.3  2086520.0       2226.4  3055.9  5282.3             57.9       17.6
2. dUNAN RESOURCE DEVELOFPUT    144295.0   56587.5   710132.5        365.3  1432.5  1797.8             79.7        6.0
3. ENV. EDUCATIO               187734.8   1287U.3   316479.1         475.3   325.9   801.2             40.7         2.7
....................................   ....................................................... .......... .................. ..   .. _....... ._ .__ ...
SubrTotal                        1211468.5  1901663.1  3113131.6       3067.0  4814.3  7881.3             61.1        26.2
G. ENVIR.INFORM.SYSTEN OEVEL
1. EUV. QUALITY                246831.9   544617.1   79149.0         624.9  1378.8  2003.7             68.8        6.7
2. TOPO. INFORM.               256027.0  1487951.7  1743978.7        648.2  3767.0  4415.1             85.3        14.7
3. PRESENT LAND USE            1841S4.8   688057.2   872212.0        466.2  1741.9  2208.1             78.9         7.3
4. LAND OSIIERSHIP              83619.0   159106.0   242725.0        211.7   402.8   614.5             65.5         2.0
5. METEOROLOGICAL INFORMATIO     52464.1   217062.1   269526.2        132.8   549.5   682.3             80.5         2.3
6. LAND SUIT.                   24676.0   166044.6   190720.6         62.5   420.4   482.8             87.1         1.6
............. ....................... . .. ....................................  ..... ......... .. ...... ........ ...... ................... ..........I
Sub-Total                         847772.8  3262838.8  4110611.5       2146.3  8260.4  10406.6            79.4        34.6
C. LAND & WATER MANAGEMENT       1098766.1  1093768.7  2192534.8       2781.7  2769.0  5550.7             49.9        18.5                    co
D. COASTAL WETLAND MWNT.
1. COASTAL PROGRAINE NT.       627880.7   238775.0   866655.7       1589.6   604.5  2194.1             27.6        7.3
2. NM3I LAGOON                  86389.7   129339.0   215728.7        218.7   327.4   546.1             60.0         1.8
3. SONGOR LAGOON               256148.0   183978.5   440126.5        648.5   465.8  1114.2             41.8         3.7
4. SAIIU/ODENSU DELTA          136902.2    69452.8   206355.0        346.6   175.8   522.4             33.7         1.7
5. ANLO-KETA LAGOON            375447.9   189521.9   564969.8        9S0.5   479.8  1430.3             33.5        4.8
6. SAiUNO EFFLUENT DISP         97012.0    60198.0   157210.0        245.6   152.4   398.0             38.3         1.3
Sub-Total                        1579780.5   871265.3  2451045.8       3999.4  2205.7  6205.2             35.5       20.7
...i ....    ..............  ....................   ........................
Total BASELINE COSTS             4737787.9  7129535.8  11867323.7    11994.4  18049.5 30043.9             60.1       100.0
rhysical Contingencies         313203.5   434984.5   748188.0        792.9  1101.2  1894.1             58.1        6.3
Price Contingencies           1069232.5  10627m2.6  2131954.0       2066.9  1937.2  4004.1             48.4        13.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS             6120223.9  8627241.9  14747465.8    14854.2 21087.9 35942.1              58.7       119.6
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 4/221192 13:28
'U>
_ 
o'I



GHANA
ENVRONMTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROECT
Tade 2. IPoldb tmis-   by Year
Totals Including Conti wencies
SWS
................ ...................................  _..........
1993       1994        1995        1996        1997      Total
A. EIIVIRoNNT NU TAGENT
1. INSTIT. SUPPORT TO EPC/TS      1767.1      1670.8      1155.6      807.1       815.1      6215.6
2. NUUAN RESOURCE DEVELoPNT        641.3       574.5       410.7      190.0       196.5      2013.1
3. EWV. EDUCATION                  288.4       160.0       176.1       171.0      177.0       972.5
,...i        ...i;         .................................
Sub-Total                            2696.8      2405.4      1742.3     1168.1      1188.6      9201.2
B. ENVIR.INFORN.SYSTEN OEVEL
1. ON. SULITY                      438.2       686.1      579.0       352.6       335.8      2391.7
2. TOPo. INFORN.                  1479.9      1863.6      1084.1      446.1       331.0      5204.8
3. PRESENT LAND USE                669.9       759.8       317.8      468.5       368.4      2584.3
4. LAND ONIERSHIP                  287.1       186.0       121.7       63.5        67.4       725.8
5. METEOROLOGICAL INFORNATIO       322.0       205.4       104.4       93.6        70.6       796.1
6. LAD SUIT.                        67.8       172.1       196.6      101.5        15.8       553.8
.......... ...............................................................
Sb-Total                             3265.0      3873.0     2403.6      1525.7      1189.1    12256.4
C. LAIL & WATER MANGEMENT            1160.5       943.6      1409.2     1524.7      1703.1      6741.1
0. CMSTAL WEILAND MGAT.
1. COSTAL PROGRAIE MT.             535.1       599.4      651.9       380.7       389.0      2556.1
2. NMI  LAGOON                     205.3       259.6       100.9       61.2        49.9       676.9
3. SCuM   LAGOON                    99.5       495.5      647.2       112.1        80.1      1434.4
4. SAKUNQ/DENSU DELTA              141.6       374.3        75.2       36.3        31.8       659.2
5. AULO-KETA LAGOON                  0.0        47.5       769.2      797.2       305.7      1919.6
6. SAIOBI EFFLUENT DISP            254.0       243.1         0.0        0.0         0.0       497.1
.... ....i;................................................................
Sub-Total                            1235.5      2019.4     2244.4      1387.6       856.5      7743.3
.........................................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 8357.8      9241.4     7799.5      5606.0      4937.3    35942.1
.........................................................................................................
Valus Seated bt 1000.0 429IM   13:29
o U
oS



GUAM
NOR   WALRESINRIR                                 MM=h5E VC
T1.  _  PdUU    _Ji
CED1                                  SU5                                X Tota(
----..     ---------------------------       S forefgn         ease
Local     Foreign        Total        Local  Foreign    Total         E2ccanow        Costs
................ ....................    ................ __________...........   ........................... __ .____ ____ ______ _   
I. *INSTNt COSTS
____.............______
A. BUILDILGS                         99247.0    665498.0   1663745.0          2527.2   1684.8   4212.0             40.0         14.0
8. SUPPLIES                            4937.5      46807.5      51745.0         12.5    118.5    131.0             90.5          0.4
C. NISCELJUIJES                      320704.4    133606.1    454310.5          811.9    338.2   1150.2             29.4          3.8
0. VENICLES                           78944.8    710503.5    789448.3          199.9   1798.7   1998.6             90.0          6.7
E. EfUIPNENT & FUNITRTRE
1. E0IfPEIT                        72636.6    653729.8    726366.4         183.9   1655.0   1838.9              90.0         6.1
2. 'rNMITURE                       50472.S      49845.0    100317.5         127.8    126.2    254.0             49.7         0.8
_._._ ____.......__ .... ...... ........_. .. ...........    ................................   ........................_
sub-Total                            123109.1    703574.8    826683.9          311.7   1781.2   20Z.-9             85.1          7.0
F. TECIUICAL ASSISTANCE
1. TA-OVERSEAS CONSULTANTS             0.0   1168387.5   1168387.5           0.0   2957.9   2957.9             100.0         9.8
2. TA- LOCAL CONSULTANTS          560892.5          0.0    560892.5        1420.0      0.0   1420.0              0.0         4.7
_.____...........___ .........._ ............... ......................    ...........................................   ........................
Sub-Total                            560892.5   11687.5   172928O.0           1420.0   2957.9   4377.9             67.6         14.6
G. TRANING
1. TRAINING OVERSEAS                   0.0    60k,62.S    600662.5           0.0   1520.7   1520.7             100.0         5.1
2. TRAINING LOCAL                 214030.0      23700.0    237730.0         541.8     60.0    601.8             10.0         2.0
..__.. _................ ................    .................. .. .  .. .......   ............... ...........
Sib-Total                            214030.0    624362.5    838J32.S          541.8   1580.7   2122.5             74.5          7.1
B. SURVEY CONTR ACT                                                                                                                                   o
1. EW0IPIENT                       42383.5    381451.5    423835.0         107.3    965.7   1073.0             90.0          3.6                  Un
2. SUPPLIES                        77331.6    112622.4    189 54.0          195.8    285.1    480.S             S9.3          1.6
3. TRAINING OVERSEAS-INTL              0.0    287165.0    287165.0            0.0    727.0    727.0            100.0          2.4
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-INTL           0.0    363795.0    363795.0            0.0    921.0    921.0            100.0         3.1
5. NISCELLANEOUS                       0.0    205479.0    205479.0            0.0    520.2    520.2            100.0          1.7
______.____..... ; .........  ................    ...........................   ..........................  ..........
Sub-Total                            119715.1   1350512.9   1470228.0          303.1   3419.0   3722.1             91.9         12.4
I. SPEC.STUDIES/INVESTIGATIN         207068.7    623606.2    831475.0          526;2   1578.7   2105.0             75.0          7.0
J. NANAGENENT ftUH                   246875.0    148125.0    395000.0          625.0    375.0   1000.0             37.5          3.3
K. PUBLIC EDUCATION                   64250.0          0.0      64250.0        162.7      0.0    162.7              0.0          0.5
L. PROJECT PREP. FACILitY             71100.0       7900.0      79000.0        180.0     20.0    200.0             TO.O          0.7
....... _; ........... ___.. ...................    .............................. .............   .... ...... ..... ........ ._
Total INVESTNENT COSTS              3010674.2   6182884.1   9193558.3         7622.0  15652.9  23274.8             67.3         77.5
_ .....   .....  .................. ...................    ..................................   ------------------------ ...
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.............................__
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWAUCES           963298.0          0.0    963298.0        2438.7       0.0   2438.7             0.0          8.1
B. OPERATING COSTS
1. CIVIL WORKS                     33654.2      22436.2     56090.4         85.2      56.8    142.0             40.0         0.5
2. EQWPNENT                       154719.8    232079.6    386799.4         391.7    587.5    979.2              60.0         3.3
3. VEHICLES                       303462.6    455193.9    758656.5          768.3   1152.4   1920.6             60.0          6.4
4. FURNITURE                       40659.4      17912.3      58571.7        102.9     45.3    148.3             30.6          0.5
Sub-Total                            532496.0    727622.0   1260118.0         1348.1   1842.1   3190.2             57.7         10.6
C. SURVEY CONTRACT 0 A N
1. CONSIMABLES                     12000.0       8000.0     20000.0         30.4      20.3      50.6            40.0         0.2
2. EWIPIENT                        38780.8      58171.2     96952.0          98.2    147.3    245.4             60.0         0.8
,,,,.,,. . . . .. . . . . .. .  . . .     ........ . . . . . . . . .      .... .... .... .... ...
Sub-Total                             50780.8      66171.2    1i69052n         128.6    167.5    296.1             56.6          1.0
D. NISCELLANEOWS                     165174.4      30657.6    195832.0         418.2      77.6    495.8            15.7          1.7                 r
E. SUPPLIES                           15364.5    122201.0    137565.5           38.9    309.4    348.3             88.8          1.2               cI



Total RECIRRENT COSTS                     1727113.7       946651.8    2673765.5           4372.4    2396.6   6'69.0                  35.4           22.5
..............................            ...........................        ............................. ------------------------............................  ............ _____
Total BASELINE COSTS                       7387.9    729535.8   11867323.7               11994.4  18049.5  30043.9                   60.1          100.0
Physical Contlrgencies                 313203.5       434984.5       748188.0           792.9    1101.2    1894.1                 58.1            6.3
Price Continsencies                   1069232.5    1062721.6    Z131954.0             2066.9    1937.2   4004.1                   48.4           13.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS                      61 202.9    8627241.9  14747465.8              14854.2  21087.9  35942.1                   58.7          119.6
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 -   4/2211992   13:29
0C
0b1



GHANA
ENVIRONMANTL RESOtRCE MANAGEMENT ]ROJECT
Tahk. umsm   Acemou   by Yr
Totals Inlcudtng CMnwtin cies
sun
...... ................._..............._......
1993       1994        1995       1996        1997      Totat
1. INVEST MET COSTS
....................
A. UILDIIGS                         1648.5      1240.3      1359.1      811.2      397.0      5456.1
8. SUPPLIES                          146.1         1.4        1.5         1.5        1.6       152.1
C. IISCELUANEUS                      214.1       326.5      433.4       336.0      184.9      1494.9
0. VEHICLES                          837.0       698.3      481.9       303.2       75.1      2395.4
E. EQUIPWENT A FURNITURE
1. EQUIPEIUT                      711.4       735.2      443.0       195.4      120.5      2205.5
2. FURITURE                       145.3        77.4       59.1        14.1       11.8       307.8
Sub-Total                            856.7       812.6      502.1       209.5      132.2      2513.2
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. TA-OVERSEAS CONSULTANTS        969.5      1075.5      504.8       36f.3      324.2      3242.2
2. TA- LOCAL CONSULTANTS          324.4       452.9      376.2       237.4      257.0      1647.8
Sub-Total                           1293.9      1528.4      881.0       605.6      581.2      4890.1
S. TRANING
1. TRAINING OVERSEAS              585.0       465.8      364.1       119.9      123.9      1658.7                                    co
2. TRAINING LOCAL                 177.7       109.7      178.4       117.7       187.7      771.3                                     4
Sub-Total                            762.7       575.6      542.5       237.6      311.7      2430.0
H. SURVET CONTRACT
1. ESJIPNENT                      739.7       483.8       30.8         0.0        0.0      1254.3
2. SUPPLIES                       232.0       204.8      121.7        10.0       13.0       581.5
3. TRAINING OVERSEAS-INTL          99.1       219.0      251.8       177.S       116.4      863.8
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-INTL       94.3       484.2      277.7        78.7       81.4      1016.4
5. NISCELLAMEOUS                    0.0       280.1      289.6        63.7        0.0       633.4
Sub-Total                           1165.0      1671.9      971.6       329.9      210.8      4349.3
I. SPEC.STUDIES/INVES1IGATIN         360.3       887.0      504.0      310.2       296.6      2358.0
J. NMANGEMENT FMB                      0.0       109.5      314.3       328.5      433.7      1185.9
K. PUBLIC EDUCATION                   35.7        36.8       38.1        39.3       40.7       190.5
L. PROJECT PREP. FACILITY            198.2         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       198.2
. ..................................................................
Total INVESTMNET COSTS              7518.1      7888.3     6029.4      3512.5     2665.5    27613.7
It. RECURRENT CSTS
..................
A. SALAAIES AND ALLOWANCES           284.0       397.5      614.9       759.6      849.2      29.3
B. OPERAiING COSTS
1. CIVIL LEDGS                     17.8        29.6       40.5        45.2       49.0       182.0
2. EQUIPMENT                       99.2       207.2      276.6       31S.4      344.4      1242.9
3. VENICLES                       212.1       396.0      531.6       626.2      666.7      2432.6
4. FURNITURE                       21.8        29.7       42.4        46.5       49.9       190.3
Sub-Total                            350.9       662.4      891.1      1033.3     1110.1      4047.C                       0d-a
C, SURVEY CONTRACT 0 & N



1. cONSULIBLES                                12.0           12.4            12.8           13.2           13.7          64.1
2. EWUIPNENT                                  37.6           63.3            67.1           69.3           71.7          309.0
Sub-Total                                         49.5           75.7           79.9           82.6            85.4         373.1
0. NISCELLAMEUS                                  105.9          148.5          110.5           117.9          122.4         605.2
E. SUPPLIES                                       49.3           69.0           73.7          100.2           104.7         396.9
........... .............................................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            839.7         1353.2         1770.1         2093.6         2271.8         8328.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                            8357.8          9241.4         7799.5         5606.0         4937.3        35942.1
..      ................................................................... .........   -------------------------.............................................................~.....................
Vatues Scaled by 1000.0 4/22/1992 13:29
00
II~~0



- 89 -                             Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ENVIRONMfENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMET PROJECT
GEF Project Selection Criteria  eference Sheet
Counr- Eliibilily
Per Capita Income
US$ 390. (1989)
Environmental Action Plans
The Government of Ghana has recently completed the preparation of a
National Environmental Policy Statement and a National Environment Action
Plan. In March, 198, responsibility for their formulation was given to the
Enviromental Protection Council (EPC). EPC secured the active
collaboration of a wide range of individuals and institutions in Ghana and
amongst the donor community, including the World Bank. The process
adopted by EPC in preparing these national policy docum3nts has generated
widespread awareness of the importance of the issues involved and a
consensus about the need for effective action.
Type 2. Without GEF support Govermnent would not undertake the
systematic inventory and management of coastal wetlands envisaged under the
project.
Global Enviromental Benefit
The five coastal lagoons, estuaries and adjacent seashores addressed by this
project provide regular sanctuary for upward of 100,000 migratory shorebirds
annually. Together they harbor nearly 5% of the shorebirds and waders using
the East Atlantic Flyway and on a regional scale rank fourth in peak
populations of migratory waterfowl. No Ramsar Sites have yet been declared
on the coast of the Gulf of Guinea. The wetlands included in this project
provide habitat for internationally significant populations of eleven species of
migratory shorebitJs and include nesting sites for three threatened species of
marine turtles.



90 -                                 Annex8
Page 2 of 3
Form of Innovation
The project will include financing for a study of compatible developmcnt
options for the communities living adjacent to the lagoons and financing for
adaptation and implementation of technologies Identified as promising
sustainable development options. These may include aquaculture, agro-
forestry and improved fisheries management as well as expansion of the
indigenous salt-winning industry adjacent to the lagoons. Pending the
outcome of engineering studies, the project may include financing of civil
works to mitigate the effects of urban/domestic waste pollution on the two
urban lagoons. Management of the Ramsar Sites will be done jointly with
responsibility for core zones or sanctuaries under the Department of Game and
Wildlife and of the adjacent zones under Site Committees within the Ministry
of Local Government !nvolving participation of local people and traditional
leaders.
Demonstration Value and Replicability
The goal of the multiple-use management regime proposed for the coastal
wetlands is to maintain the ecological balance of these aquatic/terrestrial
ecosystems by encouraging development of industries such as fishing, agro-
forestry, aquaculture, tourism and salt production that provide options for
economic growth to local communities that are compatible with sustaining
habitat for the migratory birds which also depend on these areas. In declaring
these areas as Ramsar Sites, the Government of Ghana is foregoing certain
development options for these sites but, in return receives technical and
financial assistance to implement sustainable development activities that are
compatible with maintaining bio-diversity of the coastal zone. The model of
working with local communities to identify common resource requirements
(e.g. water quality, erosion control) for conservation and community
development needs, and focusing investment on those common needs is one
which may have broader application for conservation outside of traditional
protected areas.
Contribution to the GEF Portfolio
The areas to be addressed by this project qualify as Wetlands of International
Importance under criteria established by the Ramsar Convention. They are
among the most significant sites in West Africa as habitat for migratory
waterfowl. The project represents an opportunity to afford protection to
critical conservation sites for an internationally shared resource while
encouraging development that is compatible with long-term maintenance of the
ecological stability of the ecosystems in which the conservation sites occur.



-91 -                              a s
Page 3 of 3
The 000 has demonstrated a sustained commitment to conservation in
including over 5% of the national territory within the system of protected
areas and consistently providing substantial human and material resources for
supervision and management of protected areas. Continuing commitment Is
evinced by an action plan to improve management of current protected areas
financed by the World Bank through the Forest Resource Management
Project. The NEAP includes a Coastal Zone Management Plan that
dvmonstrates Ghana's commitment to land use and development planning to
maintain the ecological integrity of the coastal region. Inclusion of
environmental and public awareness components within this project as well as
involvement of local communities in management decisions concerning
development within and adjacent to the project sites will develop a broader
grass roots understanding of linkage between long-term economic prospects
for the human populations and ecological stability of these wetland
ecosystems.
Monitoring 8valuatio
Baseline and monitoring studies of key environmental indicators reflecting
hydrological cycles, water quality, limnology and fisheries within the wetlands
are an integral part of the project. The pruject includes financing for training,
institutional development and improvement of research facilities to carry out
long-term ecological monitoring studies of the coastal wetlands included in the
project. The project would also finance pilot projects to test and evaluate
feasibility of development options identified during the early phase of the
project.



GHNA
.iS  ~dci Dbbnmb _                       511
FIY_                om                                    S_I   _                    A                                    DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
FY93    U               2.43            2.43           13.4            3          *S4                     17                           
FY94     1              2.43            4.86           26.9           10          IJI                     tS_                                     e      
n           2.50            7.36           40.7           14         2.53                     14 -/}
PY95     1              2.50            9.86           54.5           18         3.612_                                
U           l.U            11.67           64.5           26         4.71           fi        1            
F    M6  1              1.81           U.48            74             30         5.43                     10
U           1.24           u4.72           5.3            42         7.60                                         
FY97     1              1.24           15.96           U12            5s          9.05                     7 _/
Ul          1.07           17.03           94.9           S8        10.58                      6
FY98     1              1.07           13.I0          160.            66         11.9f                     4_        / 
2                                                         74        13. 3
13-
FY99     I                                                            86         15537                     2
E                                                         94        17.60
FM  1  1.24  ISM        U.2            so         9.05                      7                           I         B         IU                  S 
F1200    I                                                            93         17.74                     °      3941          99        06 'aJ,   971 78               9 9  !,    42010.  '
U                                         109~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  13.10            3IU.  P
a                                 .0 ICOI18                                                                                     FICL W
21  . S  ~        luD _      PU.  aD5i0. 1*11.1991. bE.ls   pu    I d   uIw_oscm 
0C
XI
2.



- 93 -                             Amex 10
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
ENVIRONMNTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
EnvironmLal R erce Managgnt
A. The Environmental Resource Management System
1.    An effective system for the management of environmental resources must provide for
policy formulation, planning, monitoring, problem solving and implementation. At each
stage, the operation of the system is dependent on an effective process for reaching decisions
and clear responsibilities for implementing those decisions. In Ghana, this involves decisions
made at the highest level of Government, by sectoral agencies, by District Assemblies, and by
traditional and other community authorities. Most environmental concerns are inter-sectoral
and decisions involve choices between alternafve, and possibly conflicting courses of action
which carry costs and benefits. The management system to be developed through the project
would ensure that the possible options are considered, and that their technical, economic,
financial, social or political implications are examined by the various sectoral agencies
involved, in the light of national, district or community development priorities.
2.    At the national level, the EPC was established as an apex organization providing a
inter-sectoral forum for detailed discussion of environmental issues, prior to making
recommendations to Government decision makers. Effective management of environmental
resources requires that the relationship between EPC and Government be explicit. so that the
authority of EPC is clearly seen to stem from Government. It is also important that there be
no duplication of the mechanism and the role of the Cross-Sectoral Planning Group of NDPC
must be closely linked to the functioning of EPC.
3.    The need for a clear decision making process is equally important at the local level as
at the center. Govermment policy on decentralization, the identi'.cation of District Assemblies
as District Planning Authorities and the formation of District Environmental Committees
provide a firm basis for local management of the environment. Project support for this policy
through strengthening the regional offices of the EPCITS and providing training for district
level staff would develop the system for local environmental management. The importance of
this system cannot be overemphasized as conservation based on community participation,
reinforced by locally decided bye-laws, will always be more effective than a centrali;ed, top-
down or legislative management system.
4.    Effective environmental management also requires the coordination of sectoral
development plans, most of which affect the environment in some way. There are several
ways in which sectoral agencies could give greater emphasis to environmental concerks, and
the proposed environmental management system would promote these. Thus, sectoral
plannihg should take greater account of the costs and benefits of measures to protect the
environment, which would require some skills in environmental economics in sectoral
planning departments. Making sector specific data available to other sectoral agencies and, in



- 94 -                            Annex lO
Page 2 of 7
particular, ensuring that spatial data is collected and presented on a standard base would
provide the basis for cross-sect A analysis and interpretation. Such cross-, or inter-sectoral
arrangements form the core of an improved environmental management system, leading back
to the need for a clear process by which decisions are taken and translated into necessary
action by the sectoral agencies.
5.    The Role of the EPC/TS. The functions of the Technical Secretariat of the EPC in
the environmental resource management system would be the coordination of activities
relating to the environment as defined in the EAP. Even with a well-defined process for
reaching decisions on alternative courses of action on matters affecting the environment, the
TS can only fulfill its role with the cooperation of the sectoral agencies. Its role would,
therefore, be the creation of inter-sectoral networks that would bring together the sectoral
agencies whose programs impact on the environment. Such networks would be important for
creating linkages beftween central agencies, but would be of equal importance at the regional
and district levels. The linkages are illustrated in Figure 1 of the main report.
6.    Four inter-sectoral networks would be created:
-     The Built Environment;
-     Natural Resources;
-     Mining and Industry;
-     Education.
The EPC/TS would form the technical secretariat for each network. A Senior Program
Officer in the TS would be responsible for ensuring that the appropriate agencies participate
in the network, that the necessary information is available for consideration, and that available
project funds are used to finance network meetings. He would also monitor the action taken
the implementing agencies to implement the recommendations of the networks. The areas of
concern for each of the networks is outlined in Section C, together with the suggested core
membership, though the nature of the work would require flexible arrangements and the
ability to co-opt additional members for specific tasks. The networks would take the place of
the seven Expert Committees set up through the EPC. Network meetings would not
necessarily be at regular specified intervals, but rather linked to specific actions or matters
requiring attention. The networks would have a role to play in the four nain aspects of
environmental management, that is, in planning, monitoring, problem-solving, and law
enforcement, as discussed below. The networks would thus be functional, addressing real
problems that require solution, rather than merely discussion groups. This functional focus
would be reinforced by the role members of the networks would play in project management.
It would be further strengthened by the process by which recommendations would be passed
to the EPC and, if necessary, to Government for decision.
7.    plannn g. For project specific planning the TS would ensure that relevant sector
agencies participate in EIA activities. The TS would be responsible for ensuring that the EIA
is undertaken and that the terms of reference and conclusions are reviewed and accepted by all
the sectoral agencies involved. The TS wGuld not necessarily be responsible for undertaking
the ELA, or even for supervising consultants, as in most cases, this would be done by one of
the sectoral agencies. However, project funds would enable the TS to take the lead in cases
where sectoral agencies do not have resources, or are unwilling, to undertake an EIA.



- 95-                             An=  10
Page 3 of 7
8.    Consideration of the environmental implications of development strategies and long-
term sectoral development plans would require close collaboration between EPC/TS and
NDPC. Project funds would be available for necessary studies and arrangements for their
supervision would promote the necessary collaboration. (See Annex 5). The TS, through its
Regional Offices and project financed training programs, would also assist District Assembiies
with the environmental aspects of their planning responsibilities.
9.    MoQ1lgring. Effective monitoring of environmental impact of development programs
would require the interchange of data collected by differing agencies. For purposes of
moniwring environmental quality, the TS would ensure that key indicators are agreed, and
standards and threshold levels defined, against which sectoral data can be judged. The choice
of appropriate indicators and threshold levels implies one or more environmental models,
which inay be extremely complex. The TS would ensure that appropriate studies to develop
such models are undertaken. The TS would also agree with sectoral agencies the location of
monitoring sites. The TS would organize sample collection as they have the authority to enter
industrial and other premises, and would arrange for analysis of the samples at existing
laboratories. The TS would monitor the indicators and once the data show that the threshold
has been exceeded, it would be the responsibility of the TS to raise the alarm.
10.   Problem Solying. Once an environmental problem has been identified, the TS would
ensure that the causes of the problem are identified and that one or more options for
corrective action are identified. An important aspect of this work would be the analysis of the
financial and economic costs and benefits of the recommended options. As the TS would not
have the necessary technical skills to address all possible environmental problems, its role
would be, to ensure that the skills that are available in the sectoral agencies are focused on the
problem contributing to balanced presentation of solutions. After consideration by the
appropriate inter-sectoral network, recommendations would be passed to Government by the
EPC and decisions implemenied by the relevant sectoral agencies.
11.   Law Enforcement. In cases where the only solution is the enforcemept of the law, the
role of the EPCITS would also be one of assisting the appropriate authorities. Thus, it would
ensure that the responsible sectoral agency follows the correct procedures and assembles the
appropriate evidence, and that the prosecution is brought under the most relevant section of
the law. There would therefore be close cooperation between the Legal Section of the TS and
the Attorney General's Office.
12.   Public Awareness. An important aspect of the role of the TS would be to create
public awareness of environmental issues. The TS would be involved directly through non-
formal education and media campaigns. In addition, the TS would have a key role to play in
assisting with the further development of curricula for the formal education sector that include
topics of environmental importance. This will require close cooperation with the Ministry of
Education and may involve other sectoral agencies.
13.   Environmental Infomiation Management. The EPC/TS would take a lead role in
ensuring compatibility of environmental information collected by sectoral agencies. For
spatial information this would involve the use of a topographic base in digital format,
produced by the Survey Department with a standard projection and ellipsoid as the framework
for all geo-referenced information. This would ensure the compatibility of spatial
environmental information from different agencies. The EPC/TS would also play a lead role



- 96 -                            Annex 10
Page 4 of 7
In setting standards for data collection and presentation for surveys, monitoring and EIAs.
For activities financed through the project, adherence to standardF set by EPC/TS would be
obligatory, whilst for other activities, he TS would play an advisory role.
B. The Structure of EPC/TS
14.   Management of the EPC/TS. The TS would be headed by a Director, who wou!d be
responsible to the Chairman of the EPC. This would mean a change from the present
arrangement, in which the Executive Chairman of EPC not only chairs the Council, but is
also responsible for the operations of the Research and Programs Section. The separation of
these two functions would mean that the Chairman of the Council would be able to focus on
policy issues, Fetting the agenda for Council deliberations and ensuring that the results are
made known to Government. The Director of EPC/TS would be responsible for the day-to-
day running of the Technical Secretariat, forging the necessary links with sectoral agencies
and NGOs at central and district levels, and providing information, analysis and advice to
Council. The Director of EPC/TS would also ;,ct as the Technical Secretary to the Council.
It is proposed that a Management Board, or sub-committee of the Council, be established to
oversee the operations of the EPC/TS. Suggested membership and terms of reference for the
Management Board/Sub-Committee are presented in Annex 11.
15.   Qrganizaio of the EPC/TS. The proposed organization of the TS is presented in
Figure 2 of the main report. The Chief Executive would be assisted by three Deputy
Directors, for Sectoral Networking, for Technical Services, and for Administration. The
Deputy Director for Sectoral Networking would be directly responsible for the establishment
and operation of the inter-sectoral networks that lie at the heart of the proposed environmenta
management system. He/she would also be responsible for environmental education, which
will also be dependent on establishing effective linkages with a range of other institutions,
including the media. Each of the networks would be headed by a Senior Program Officer
assisted by one or two Program Officers, depending on staff availability and work load.
16.   The work of the sectoral networks would be supported by specialists grouped under a
Deputy Director for Technical Services. These specialists would include staff with expertise
in environmental economics, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), monitoring of
environmental quality and data management. They would be available to advise any of the
sectoral networks. Thus, any one of the networks could be involved in consideration of
development that requires an EIA. The ETA specialist in the technical support unit would be
available to advise the responsible Senior Program Officer, and hence the network, on
drawing up the terms of reference for the ETA, ensuring that appropriate consultants are
recruited and supervising the study. The specialist would not be responsible for undertaking
the study in person. Similarly, economists with expertise in environmental economics would
be available to advise any of the networks on the economic implications of various options,
liaising with economists in the planning departments of sectoral agencies where necessary.
The Data Management Unit, working closely with the Program Officers in the Sectoral
Networks, would be responsible for office technology and ensuring the smooth flow of
information to the various sections.



- 97 -                                   inL1
Page 5 of 7
17.   lhe adinistraton of the Agency would be under the Deputy Director for
Adm ton, who would operate in accordance with Goverment regulations. Posts Sor a
Project ' aiwcial Controllar and a Procutement Officer would be established within the
Administration, to ensure effective distutsement of project fumds. An officer would also be
apWointed with responsibility for human re4oarces development, niot only coordinatirg training
activitiz for staff of the I'S and other related agencies, but taking a lead in the development
of a human resource development plan and an associated scheme of service. The Legal
Officer and Internal Auditor would be directly responsible to the Director. The Legal Officer
woul:d deal with the drafting or revision of legislation, and advice to the inter-sectoral
networks in a similar manner to the technical services.
18.   Each of the Regional Offices of the EPC/TS would be headed by a Senior Program
Officer or a Program Officer, reporting directly to the Director. However, the post of
Liaison Officer for Regional Offices would be created to provide a contact point at
headquarters for regional staff. RouLle matters could be dealt with by the Liaison Officer
and only matters requiring the Director's decision referred to him. The main function of the
Regional Offices would be to provide advlce and guidance to the District Assemblies on the
enviromental consequences of planned developments. It would not be possible to have an
environmental office in each of the 110 districts in Ghana as trained staff would not be
available. The Regional Offices would, therefore, provide mobile teams to visit each district
in a region, working with the District Assemblies and staff to ensure that environmental
concerns are taken into account in all local developments.
C. Inter-Sectoral Networks
19.   O;iona Concems. Each of the !nter-Sectoral Networks would be concerned with
discussion of a range of issues and operations, that will evolve with time. The main concerns
are identified below, though others will undoubtedly be added as dictated by need.
IMUl-IECTORAL NETWORK;                AfQNAL
Built Environment                Urban and rural setdements
Public health
Infrastructure development
Provision of service facilities
Population issues
Disaster management
Energy
Urban women
Natural Resources                Consereation of biodiversity
Land management
Forestry
Water resources
Marine and coastal zone issues
Resource - population balance



98 -                           Page 6 of 7
Mining and Industry               Pollution monitoring and regulations
Impact of mining/industrial
development
Hazardous chemicals/wastes
Eduwion                           Public awareness
Media campaigns
Formal education programs
20.   Mmbership. Each of the Inter-Sectoral Networks would consist of a core
membership as listed below. The wure memberships would be altered in the light of
experience and additioDal members would be co-opted as necessary
IN1ER-SECTORAL NQ KPROP!OSEDP                           MBEReSHIn
Built Environment                        Dept. Town and Country Planning
Technical Services Centre
Dept. Urban Roads
Dept. Feeder Roads
Environmental Health Divn., MOH
GWSC
NDPC
Local Authorities (NALAG)
GREDA
Natural Resources                        Dept. Forestry
Dept. Crop Services
Dept. Animal Health and Production
Dept. Fisheries
Irrigation Development Authodt1
Dept. Game and Wildlife
WRRI
Mining and Industries                    Minerals Commission
Dept. Mines
Dept. Geological Surveys
MIST
Factories Inspectorate
Ministry of Health
Ghana Investment Centre
NBSSI



-99-                              Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Education                              Ghana Education Service
Dept. Community Development
Instiute of Adult Education
Dept. Information Servicos
Division of Health Education
Ghana National Commission on
Children
Divison of Non-Formal Education
NGO Representatve



- 100 -                              Ann,1
Poge I of 2
GHA1tA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURIE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
-EmL_KuLrtCM
Membership and Term= of Reference
Ihe membership of the Management Board of the Environmental Protecon Couwcil,
Techical Secretariat (EPC/TS) would be as follows:
-     A Chairman to be appointed by the Council (EFC).
-     A member of the Council, if the Chairman is not a Council member.
-     The Director, EPC/TS
-      The Deputy Directors, EPC/TS
Two Directors from CSIR Research Institutes
One elected member of the TS staff, not below the grade of Principal Program
Officer, elected by all staff of Program Officer grade or above.
cOne elected member of the TS staff, not below the grade of Program Officer
and with at least three yean experience in tie TS, elected by all staff of
program Officer or above.
Not less than seven and not more than ten rjpresentatives of relevant
government ministries or departmeDtt, universities, professional institutions,
financial and banking institutions ar i olber agencies, or other person whose
membership would promote the interests of the Agency.
Representatives of the TUC and CDR as directed by Government.



- 101 -                                   I
Page 2 of 2
erm of Referenc
Ihe terms of reference for the Management Board of the EPC/TS would be as
allOWS:
to consider and approve programs subnitted by the TS staff in the light of
national and sectoral needs identified through he inter-sectoral networks;
to consider budgetary allocations, both recurrent and capital, in the light of
the agreed programs;
to review the draft budgets prepared by the Di-rector before they are submitted
to the EPC;
to review periodically the progress of the EPC/TS pro_rams;
to consider the future needs of the TS for buildings, equipment and other
facilities, and trained staff;
to consider the balance of the staff of the TS as between Program Officers,
technical and support staff;
to supervise the finances of the EPC/TS in accordance with Goverment's
financial regulations by periodic review of the accounts;
to mnanage the estate and properties of the EPC/TS;
to appoint specified grades of junior staff in accordance with the regulations
laid down by the Council;
to ensure the proper execution of capital development works in accordance
with Council regulations;
to discharge such other duties as may be assigned to it by the Council from
time to time.



- 102 -
Pago I of 2
G}ANA
ENVRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Membership of Proect Management Committee.
Chair:              Chairman EPC
Secretary:          Director, EPC/TS
Members:            Director, Survey Department
Director, Game and Wildlife I partment
Director, Crop Services Department
Director, Ag. Engineering Services Department
Proje.t Financial Controller, EPC/TS
Environmental Ouality Prolect Operations Committee
Chair:              Direcor, EPC/TS
Secretary:          SPO, Environmental Quality Network, EPCiTS
Members:            Director, 'NRRI
Director, LAB
Project Financial Controller, EPC/TS
Land Information Proect Qperions CogMitt-%e
Chair:              NDPC
Secretary:          SPO, Natural Resources Network, EPC/TS
Members:            Director, Survey Department
Director, RSAU, UofG
Executive Secretary, Lands Commission
Director, SRI
Director, Meteorological Services Department
Deputy Director, Sectoral Networking, EPCITS
Project Financial Controller, EPC/TS



- 103 -                               Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Studies and Investigations Project Operations Committee
Chair:              NDPC
Secretary:          Deputy Director, Inter-Sectoral Networking, EPC/TS
Members:            Director, Policy Analysis Unit, MFEP
Chief Director, MLG
Director, Game and Wildlife Department
Deputy Director, Technical Services, EPC/TS
Co-opted members from involved sectoral agencies
Coastal Wetland Management Project Operations Committee
Chair:              Director, Game and Wildlife Department
Secretary:          Coastal Wetland Coordinator, GWD
Members:            Deputy Director, Inter-Sectoral Networking, EPC/TS
Technical Adviser, Wetlands Program
SPO, Natural Resources Network, EPC/TS
Land and Water Management Project Operations Committee
Chair:              PNDC Deputy Secretary for Agriculture
Secretary:          Project Coordinator, Crop Services Department
Members:            Director, Ag. Engineering Services Department
Director, Ag. Extension Services Department
Director, SRI
Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, UST
Deputy Director, Inter-Sectoral Networking, EPC/TS
SPO, Natural Resources Network, EPC/TS
Coopted members from financial agencies and NGOs



r- IQ - ,  Annex 13
_  _ _                    | ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 1 of3
a ---
ah         -    __ _ ___ _ __ _I__      _ _
iz    l I                                     11
m  4  "    a    .                .,  .      I~~~~~~~.
X t  I   -           * _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 105 -
* _  a  "                                 _                ~~~~~~~~~~~~P=ageX 2 lof 3
I   I;_.    .   .  ..
I       "            *~  I           I:*  
I       "            *  I          *1I             *1 I        1:         1
;  I     _                I            1              11         11       11 
|  l          "            ..4           *1             *11        *1:          I
| b  l      _             ~~~      ~    ~~~~ *                     ai i     lll  
Ii       _                           I _   _     ll                        liii   lI
|~~ ~. _                       I .I  I, *I    *lliI I
-  I           I          I    I         1111
_  _--
C400  0 0                                               0



!-_ _  -   .  - 106 -                   | ~~~~~~~~Annex 13
l w    t _  ,-                     .. ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 3
_~~~ .*I                        II
_~~~~~~      0 _*, I.             01'          . 
l   "  .   .       ,11~~*I      *.  I  I '
_~~ ~~~~ _           11            *   * 
_ _ _~ I  I        .   1       I        II
l~ ~~~~ _             1                I I    .1
I~~~~ .I aI _0 ..                   .              11*
t1    ~~~~-  I    , *1                    * I --
-.1  1   "    .   ~~I   .  , 11       .,    I  I .  .I
C.|  I     _*1                  .  I          .* .II   11
|m  1~~~~~C I1 _          .111               I I     v
| 4  "    a _                .   '    . . *  II  I  a
s~~~~~~~C  01 _          I.   I  I                  v1
fi ~     ~~~~~ 0    01              0   1  *    I1
V mIi!lljll   r



- 107 -AtnmJ1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ininAwdAs
A. Intemnational Training
Subject            3De of         No. Training Awards by Year       law
Cors(a)    1       2      3      4     5
Environmental Management
Management           SC          7      1     1      1     1          11
Env. Assessment      YR          1      1     1                        3
Env. Assessment      SC          2      1     1      1     1           6
Env. Economics       YR          1      1     1                        3
Env. Economics       SC          3     3      3      2     2          13
Env. Education       YR                 2     1      1     1           5
Env. Education       SC          1      1     1                        3
Data Management      SC          1      2                              3
Workshop Facilitation  SC        1      1                              2
Library Science      SC          1                                     1
Env. Law             YR          1      1                              2
Env. Law             Sc                 1     1                        2
Env. Quality         SC          1      1     1                        3
Env. Quality - Lab   SC                 1     1                        2
Topographic Information
Photolab.            SC          2      1     1                        4
Lithography          SC                 2     1                        3
DigitalMapping       SC          2      2     1      1      1          7
GIS                  SC                 1    2       1                 4
Survey Management   SC                        2      1     1           4
Survey Scienco       SC                       2      2     2           6
'Technical           SC                 2     2      2     2           8
Land Use/GIS                SC         4                                      4
LandlInformation            SC         2       1     1                       4
Meteorological Information
Meteorology          YR          1      1                              2
Data Management      SC          1                                     1



- 108 -                             Annaex14
Page 2 of 2
Subit              Iywe            No. Training Awards by Year       Tt
Cours (a)     1      2     3       4     5
Land Suitability            SC          1       1                              2
Land and Water Management
Africa               ST          6       6     6      6      6         30
Other areas          ST          3       3     3      3      3          15
Training             SC          3       3     3      3      3          15
Coastal Wetland Management
WtlandEcology        YR                  1     1                        2
Public Awareness     SC           1                                      1
Wardens              SC          2       1     1                        4
NGO Staff            SC           1      1     1                        3
B. Local Training
SubXect           SIe of           No. Training Awards by Year        lta
Course (a)    1      2     3       4     5
Land Use                     IS                3      3      3     3          12
WS                1      1                        2
Land andWaterManagement   WS                    1     1      1      1          4
Participatory Plannh I  Mnths    4      28    28     28    28          116
Practical Conservation  Mnths           12    12     12    12          48
Training skills      Mnths       3                                      3
Coastal Wetland Management
Community Leaders      IS        2       2     2      2      2          10
Rangers               IS          1            1      1                 3
(a)    SC    Shot Course
YR    Onm Year Podt Graduat
IS    in Sevice Training
Sr    Shdy Tour
WS    Workawp



- 109 -                             Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ProJect Supervision
Supervision Plan
1.    Supervision of the project would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
presented in Annex 13. Joint supervision missions would be undertaken, involving
Government, IDA, ODA and DANIDA. The schedule of supervision missions presented
below includes three visits during the first year of the project, to provide close supervision
and assistance during the critical start-up period. In subsequent years, one visit by a
supervision mission would coincide with the review of the annual plan for the following
year's program in the third quarter of the calendar year. The supervision plan also provides
for one additional visit in the second quarter of the second, fourth and fifth project years. In
the third project year, this visit would coincide with the project mid-term review.
CY                  1993         1993          1994         1995         1996
Quarter             1234         1234          1234         1234         1234
Supervision         *  **          * *          *  *         * *           *  *
Mid-term review                                 *
Key Indicators
2.    The key indicators to assess the progress of the project can be considered in a number
of groups. The Technical Secretariat of the EPC woul 1 be responsible for collating the data
shown below.
Pliiy and Leislation
3.    The Environmental Action Plan (Annex 3) indicates the need for the revision and
adoption of a number of policies and legislative measures. Progress towards the adoption of
those that relate specifically to project supported activities would be monitored. They include
policy and legislation related to
-     Land Management;
-     Forest Management;
-     Water Us9;
-     Fisheries and Coastal Zone Management.
In addition, revsion of legislation related to the control of mining and industrial operations
would be monitored.



- 110 -                             Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
I. D_EVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Management Development
-     Meetings of EPC;
-     Meetings of Inter-Sectoral Networks;
-     Implementation of course of action recommended by EPC;
-     Introduction of management information system;
-     Introduction of program budgeting in all participating agencies;
-     Development and results of monitoring and evaluation programs;
-     Progress with special studies and investigations;
Environmental Education
-     Planning and progress with formal environmental education for
EPC/TS and sectoral agency staff;
-     Planning and progress with training of staff of sectoral agencies and
district staff;
-     Progress with public awareness campaigns and numbers of media
programs;
Environmental Quality Information
-     Establishment of monitoring program and agreement on threshold
values;
-     Numbers of analyses;
-     Reliability of analyses in relation to international standards;
-     Trends in results;
Geographic Base Information
-     Production of digital topographic maps;
Present Land Use Information
-     Production of digital land use maps and bulletins;
Soil Information
-     Production of digital soil maps and bulletins;
Slope and Elevation Analysis
-     Production of hectare rasters;
Meteorological Information
-     Progress with computerization of data and analysis;
Land Suitability Information
-     Production of land suitability maps and bulletins.



- 111 -                              Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
II. LAND AND WATER MANAGEMENT
-     Establishment of L & W Management Training Unit;
-     Development of methods for community based planning and
management of resources;
-     Progress with staff training;
-     Establishment of Land and Water Management Fund and procedures
for disbursement;
-     Numbers of communities visited by Village Planning Teams;
Numbers of hectares of land on which improved land and water
management practices have been adopted;
Production impact of improved land and water management practices.
III. COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT
-     Recognition of the five coastal wetland sites under the Ramsar
Convention;
-     Completion of base line studies;
*     Progress with management programns;
-     Progress with monitoring studies and impact of management programs
on the ecology of the wetland sites;.
Technical Assistance
Number of months/discipline/agency
Physical achievement of civil works or procurement of project finance
items as presented in the implementation schedule and detailed cost
tables;
Financial
Budget by participating agency;
-     Investment;
-     Personnel;
-     Operational expenses;
-     Program budgets;
Rprting
Timeliness of six-monthly reports
Publication of results in bulletins or annual reports of participating
agencies.



- 112 -
Page 4 of 4
Wquired for Supervision Missi'ons
In addition to the Task Manager responsible for supervising compliance with Bank
res, supervision missions would need to include personnel with skills In:
-     Management Systems;
-     Environmental Quality Monitoring;
-     GIS, Survey and Mapping;
-     Land Suitability;
-     Rural Sociology;
Land and Water Management;
-     Wetlands Ecology.



- 113 -                             Annx 1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ENVIRONmNTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and. Lol f&WultWnel
A. Technial Assistnce - Schedule of Activities
Spcal                                   SNo. Months Assistance 'y Year     Total
1     2      3      4      5
Management Adviser                       3                                    3
EIA Specialist                                  2     1                       3
Environmental Economics                  1      1                             2
Education/Communications                 2      1                             3
Data Management                                 4     2      2      2        10
Document Review and Storage              2                                    2
Environmental Law                        1                                    1
Presentation Technology                         2     2                       4
Environmental Quality Monitoring         3      2     2                       7
Topographic Information
Photolab                                10     2                      12
Lithography                              2     1                       2
Cartography                                    2                       2
Digital mapping                         12    12      2      2        28
Procurement                       6                                    6
Technical Training                       3     2      2      2         9
Land Use
Equipment                         3      4     2      4      2        15
Land use                          9     12     3      2      4        30
Evaluation and monitring                 1            3                4
Management and Marketing                              3      3         6
Land Suitability                         3      6     6      3               is
Meteorology                              6      2     2      1      1        12
Land and Water Management
Land and water management        12    12      1      1      1        27
Rural sociology                  12    12      1      1      1        27
Monitoring and review                          3             3         6
Coastal Wetland Management
Wetland ecology                   4      4     4                      12
Terms of reference for all these specialists are presented in the Working Papers. See
Annex 17.



- 114 -                            Annex I
Page 2 of 2
B. Incal Consultancdes - Schedule of Acivities
S s, Months Assistance by Year   IDtzI
1     2    3       4      5
Management                             6      6     4      4      4         24
Communications                         3      3                              6
Data Management                               4    4                         8
Monitoring/Evaluation                         3    2       2      2          9
Public Awareness Strategy               3           3                        6
Material Design                        2      3     3      3      3         14
Industrial Pollution                   6      6     3      3      3         21
Topographic Information
Curriculum Developwrant                 7                             7
MIS Development                         3                             3
Land Suitability                              6                              6
Land Ownership                         12    12                             24
Land and Water Management
Training Program Development    24    24    15    12    15           90
Translator                       2      1    1       1     1          6
Coastal Wedand Management
Senior Technical Adviser         6      6    6      6      6         30
Ecologists: baseline studies    36    16   15                        61
Ecologist: monitoring studies          35   35    35    35           140
National wetland strategy                     1                        1
Terms of reference for these specialists are presented in the Working Papers. See Annex 17.



- 115 -                           Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL KESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available In Prolect File
A. Background and Prolect Preparation Papers
1.    Ghana Environmental Action Plan. Environmental Protection Council, Accra.
1991.
2.    Environmental Protection Council Institutional Development. Report on
Study. Price Waterhouse. Accra. 1991.
3.    Ghana. Land Resource Management Study. Identification Mission.
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. Report No. 103/91 CP-GHA 28.
1991.
4.    Coastal Wetlands Management Plans: Ghana. Ntiamoa-Baidu Y. and Gordon
C. Environmental Protertion Council. Accra. 1991.
B. Workinge Pae.rs
1.    The Environmental Resource Management System
2.    Environmental Education
3.    The Environmental Information System
4.    Monitoring Environmental Quality
S.    Geographic Base Information
6.    Land and Water Management
7.    Coastal Wetland Management
8.    Sakumo Lagoon. Effluent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
9.    Economic Analysis
10.   Project Costs



EUVIRONINPTAL PROCTIUON  rUCIL/TECUICAL SECRETMIAT
PROPOSED STRUCTtRE
|Chairioan of Councit|
|Directorr
l        l                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deputy Director l
Deputy Director    lDeputy Director                                                                           Ad inistration & Finance
_Technicat Services               Int er-Sectorat Networicins                                   
Buitt                      Lion  Officer
Policy Anals Si                       Ernirroment                   Regionat offices                                      nistratlon
Naturat
Resources
at                ~~~~~Mining &                                                           L
Induistry                                                                     D
I9 Snforcation                                                           ional
|  Services    |              H    Edueation                         Offices



Coastal Wetland        Env. Quatity         Studies &             Land Retated          Land R  Water
MNwagement           NMoitoring        Investigations          Infornt ion            Nawagement
G&W                EPC/TS                onD                    SD                     CSD
IAD/MRt              EPC/TS                    SAU                Ag. Erng. SD
-J~~~~~~ I                                                      1        J
Consultants                SRI         W      a
Conponent111                         Com*p  o  ne  nt    I                              Componantl1 l
PCC      Project Coordination Committee             POC      ProJect Operations Committee
EPC/TS  Technical Secretariat, Environnent                   -  CUI  Coastal Uetland  anbagement
Protection Counmcil.                                - EQ   Environnental Quality
TA      Technical Assistance                                 -  SI   Studies & Investigations
- LI Land Information
- 1.11 Land & Water Management
OQ
'1



IAP SECTION
I



BURKINA FASO                           _        c        oGHANA
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL
ZONES
tt;:) \ UPPER                                                    hAGRO - ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
SUDAN SAVANNA
GUINEA SAVANNA
17  WA  /    ED   NOR  t  40                                     wTRANSmONAL
S_bJb*                DECIDUOUS FOREST
COTE                                                        8                                                      _ e &  RAIN FOREST
D IVOIRE                                                                                                           C / - + X 3 COASTAL SAVANNA
PREDONINANT
LIVESTOCK REGIONS
2e,o-  ISOHYETSIN mm.
NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
_/    SANCTUARIES
3 7 ;      \                         J                      :3      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PRIMARY ROADS
-___MALJOR SECONDARY ROADS
r   /  \ >    E  ;t/                                 (s      >          \ o      -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
/ }  / J   /  /                 R9N~~~~~~~~HAFO         j                             -RIVERS
/    REGION HEADQUARTERS
Ah-d.M/JN\ jo   t16 NATIONAL CAPITAL
r   v   >v\   V   _               \\           8            0   r    -REGI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGON30OUNaARIES
_r   < /  \_     lupos   /   <   y  e _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
lko=ti                  GULF OF GU!NEA                          ~1                     4C,Z/
Tho trap hotbee prepored by The WorLd Eont's stoff eooIos,rfor   9          R.0  on   0 
floe convenience of readers cnd ks for dhe intcmnol use of The Forld   Cl  -l rn   Z
Bhnk Groop. The dooorminotfoos coed c,rd Irehoundnrioeo sfhown on this o
E                                                 ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~op do nct imiply, on ftt port cf The World Bcnk Grou/p cny judgmnert  0O    Accr ,9 - 
Q~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o thoe legal Molds of ny ferrflory or any eodorsieot or accreptcaceof   D)           c*  
CS                                                                 surh Locodariet                              
_   g                   |                         ;                                                    ;       ~      GX   -L qA. 
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1



0  I :  '.                                °. ! 2 ? ' .' ! 2  34  ___5 v _\                                                                                     RAMSAR SITE BOUNDARY
A-A.                                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONIR   ROU
EcA.h.EL~.A                                                                                       MSRP 
~~40-N  -6-V~~~~~~~~ 14'-M                               NROD
,~ /                                                                                                                                                          S  N/ v_ _O  .                            ARyol CkSo                          3.RA1115AR 51 tOUNDARY 0<j'S rS>t O'AjADL
S.nI.o  I~~~  I                                                                                                                              N   5.C5R0 DONb                                      e,
RRERSAR                              ) /                SAND USE MANAGEMENT ZONE                                                                                            -                 A /                             DLn= ..
, .   R,r  ZONF                                                                                                       o o   (,in
-INON ROADS  MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                        W       L       D_o
RAMDSI R  SITE BOUNDARY  E                                E                             RROE
PROPOSED MUMI SITE                            EnE4RPSD DENSU DELTA SITE                                                 Da,.,            55MO                                 -                      0'
MOROSE AINSARSNE AREA                 .-'l                f          s RASANAAPEEAE   *T S
HaFAoin'           IOIII-EIT _  ARE        OAn..                      D1 SOR        _ -                                                                                         _,_EA SUERATONtBUNART ZONE' 2OTEO  /                  GHN    TX[ oGr
- W .IJX K  I                                         r z J,                                                                                                                                                           IJ   .        *IN
~If,,*farlr                  OR... O . is' >6 -0                                                                                                                                                                                                                  c0
EUSESE REd  11'0.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.E'~~RPO E    SN ORST
TENRE                          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~  /  ARMAas ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~MMO5T
5040 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~UIST                                                                      M N GMN     RGA NA.,GEOS
I  *a..dS.                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /O.acSM/,AR   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RO O EDRMS RSIEA'SRSN  FS
N  En~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANFOD
H.ED 1V IJ A.ITRAINLBUDRE
-05~0'GHN
-& R'..p' EE.ASZREA,AR.,.,..J..dR.RO.ARAR.,.4M.N,,MA~~~~Gu                                               o              u in e 



