Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19457
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2426-GH)
June 29, 1999
Rural Development III
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Cedi (C)
C 1,000    =   US$0.42
US$1    =    C2,355 (at closing, December 31, 1998)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1992   1993    12/1994    12/1995    12/1996    12/1997
395    820      1,050      1,441     1,733      2,239
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
REPUBLIC OF GHANA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL Adaptable Program Lending
CPPR Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSIR Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DANIDA Danish International Development Agency
DFID  Department for International Development
EAP Environmental Action Plan
EIA Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS Environmental Information System
EPA Environmental Protection Agency
EPC/TS Technical Secretariat of Enviromnental Protection Council
FAO Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF Global Environmental Facility
GERMP Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project
GET Global Environmental Trust Fund
IDA International Development Association
LIPOC Land Information Project Operations Committee
LWMU Land and Water Management Unit
MOFA Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MSD Meteorological Services Department
NGO Non-Government Organization
QAG Quality Assurance Group
RSAU Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSAU)
SRI Soils Research Institute
TS Technical Secretariat of Environmental Protection Council
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director: Peter C. Harrold, AFC10
Sector Leader: Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTR3
Task Team Leader: Patience Mensah, AFTR3



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2426-GH)
Contents
PREFACE:........................V
EVALUATIION SUMMARY .............................................I
PART I. I'ROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........1...................................1
Backgrc,und                                             ........................I
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design .1
B. Achievement of Objectives.3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                              .7
D. Project Sustainability.8
E. Bank Performance.9
F.   Borrower Performance.9
G. Assessment of Outcome.10
II. Future Operation.10
I. Key Lessons Learned.11
PART II. S3TATISTICAL TABLES .......................13
Table 1 Summary of Assessments .......................13
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .......................15
Table 3     Project Timetable ..............................................16
Table 4. C redit Disbursements .............................................16
Table 5 K ey I    ndicators in SAR for Project Implementation ..............................................17
Table 6 Key  ndicators for ProjectOe .............................................Operati.           17
Table 7 Studies Included in Project.............................................. 18
Table 8.A: Project Costs ............................................. 20
TableR 8: ProjectFinancing       ..............................................20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .2............................................ 0
Table 1R: Status of Legal Covenants .2............................................. 1
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..............................................23
Table  1:2:  Bank    Resources:   Staff Inputs         ............................................. 
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions       ............................................. 23
APPENDl[CES
Appe      ndix 1: Mission Aid e Memoire ...........................................25
App endix 2: Mid-Term Review Report ...........................................35
Appendix 3: Borrower's Cnin  ..........................................Contri.                       251
MAPS Agro-Ecological Zones - IBRD 23827
T Coastal Wetlancds Sites - IBRD 23746
This do Scument  has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in th.e
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Blank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2426-GH)
Preface
TIhis is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ghana Environmental Resource
Management Project (GERMP), for which a Credit in the amount of US$18.1 million/SDR12.6 million
equivalent was approved on October 15, 1992 and made effective on March 12, 1993. An associated
GEF grant, GET TF 28619-GH, in the amount of US$7.2 million/SDR 5.0 million was also approved on
August 28, 1992, and made effective on March 12, 1993. Cofinancing for the project was provided by
DFID (previously ODA) of the United Kingdom in the amount of US$0.9 million, and by DANIDA of
Denmark in the amount of US$4.3 million.
The original closing date for the Credit was December 31, 1997. This was extended by one year
and the C(redit closed on December 31, 1998. It was not fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took
place on May 12, 1999. A balance of about US$7,800 remaining will be cancelled. The closing date for
the GEF Grant (TF28619-GH) was also originally set for December 31, 1997. However, after two one-
year extensions, the Grant is expected to close on December 31, 1999. A separate ICR will be prepared
for the GEF Grant once it is closed.
The ICR was prepared by Lucie Tran of the Agriculture 3 Technical Unit, Africa Region, with the
assistance of Patience Mensah, Task Team Leader, and Hassan M. Hassan, Environment Department,
and was reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse (Sector Manager, AFTR3), and Isabelle Girardot-Berg,
(Principal Agriculture Economist, AFTR3). Comments from the Borrower (EPA) and cofinancier
(DANIDA) have been incorporated into this report. At the Borrower's request, the Mid-term Review
summary has been added to the report as Appendix 2.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, which took
place in October 1998. It is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed to the ICR
by providing its own evaluation of the project, a summary of which is attached as Appendix I of this
report. The full report is available in project files.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2426-G)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    In the mid-1980s, a growing concern for environmental issues led the Government of Ghana to
initiate the preparation of a National Environmental Policy Statement and a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP).  In formulating the plan, the Environmental Protection Council (EPC), a
Govenrment agency established in 1974, secured the active collaboration of a wide range of individuals
and institutions in Ghana and the donor community, including the World Bank. In the process, EPC
generated widespread awareness of the importance of the issues involved and a consensus about the need
for effective action. The NEAP was endorsed by the Govemnment in 1991 and identified major problems
to be addressed including soil degradation, soil erosion, deforestation and forest degradation, and
degradation of the natural and built environment in the coastal zone. In addition, industrial and mining
activities combined with rapid urbanization (water and air pollution) were becoming serious. World Bank
funding under the Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP) provided institutional
support to the EPC (later transformed into the Environmental Protection Agency - EPA) and introduced
improved land management practices and conservation efforts for biodiversity areas.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the project was to strengthen the capacity of Government and the people
to manage environmental resources. The project focused on:
(a)   improving resource management and monitoring capability of the Environmental
Protection Council;
tb)   developing an environmental information system  to improve the availability of
topographic and land use/land suitability information, meteorological and environmental
quality data; and
(c)   assisting the environmental resource users to invest in the sustainable use of the resources
through adoption of improved management and use practices.
3.   'To reach these objectives, the project included the following components:
(a)    Development of a National Environmental Resource Management system (US$18.3
million) through:
*    management development (institutional support to the EPC/TS, human resource
development, and environmental education based on public awareness campaigns); and
*    development of a national environmental information and monitoring system;



- ii -
(b)   Land and Water Management (US$5.5 million) - a pilot project for introducing better
land management practices to reduce land degradation; and
(c)    Coastal Wetlands Management (US$6.2 million) - providing demarcation and
management of five coastal wetlands sites which are important sites for migratory
waterfowl.
4.    The project's objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with the Bank's strategy for
environment and development in Ghana. The project's structure was complex and difficult to implement
and EPC (EPA) experienced some difficulty in integration and coordination between the multiple
executing agencies. Most risks were correctly identified in the SAR but others such as the level of
shortage in counterpart funding, the impact of the changing role of the EPC (EPA), and the weak
relationships with research institutions for the land and water management component during the project
period were not anticipated.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Overall Assessment. Overall, the project's objectives were substantially achieved. The project
contributed to the establishment and strengthening of a number of institutions helping to form a strong
network in the area of environmental management. Valuable environmental information on most
environmental problems has been generated in Ghana and disseminated widely.
6.    Development of National Environmental Resource Management System. The institutional
objectives for this component has been achieved but not all of the physical targets have been met.
Institutional capacity-building of the EPC (EPA) has been successful and the institution has become an
effective environmental management agency with a broadened mandate and legal authority.  A
management framework with an intersectoral network exists in five sectors (natural resources, built
environment, mining and industry, environmental education, and compliance and enforcement) and
regional offices are operating to ensure effective coordination and management of environmental issues.
Although an effective environmental management framework has been established at the national level,
the monitoring and enforcement capacities at the regional and local levels remains a challenge (for
example, in the mining and industry sectors). Detailed regulations on environmental impact assessments
are awaiting approval by Parliament. Environmental quality monitoring is operational and targets on staff
training have been reached. Capabilities for environmental impact assessment have been established,
extensive training have been carried out under the human resources sub-component (cofinanced by DFID,
UK), and good progress has been made in the area of environmental education through collaboration with
various groups responsible for formal and informal education (NGOs, district assemblies, women's
groups), and with the media. Studies and investigations envisaged under the project fell short of targets
planned due to resource constraints and priority given to capacity-building. Terms of reference for 15
studies have been prepared but only four of the major studies have been completed.
7.    Institutional objectives for the development of an environmental information system (EIS) have
been substantially achieved and most of the physical targets have been met. EPC (EPA) and other
agencies are now well-equipped to gain access to the environmental data collected. However, whether
the information and environmental data being generated will be translated into effective resource
management still remains to be seen. Also, investments in the EIS equipment will need to be maintained
if it is to be sustainable. It is not clear whether this support can be provided through private sector
marketing of related data outputs. Nevertheless, the core databases developed under the project were
well-received in Ghana and are considered a unique example of EIS development in Africa. In addition,
non-project agencies have expressed interest in the data, which would expand their use beyond that of
project agencies.



- LUl -
8.    Map production capability has been enhanced considerably under the project and the collection,
interpretation, and presentation of topographic, present land use, land ownership, land suitability and
meteorological information have been developed. On land ownership issues, information on stool and
family lands is complete for most of the regions targeted, but some remain to be completed. Construction
of the Survey School buildings progressed slowly at the beginning of project implementation because of
delays in decision-making and will have to be completed after project closing.
9.    Land and Water Management. The component achieved its main objective of creating a
functional Land and Water Management Unit (LWMU) although it experienced implementation problems
and did not reach all of its physical targets. The component started one year later than other project
components but made good progress during the project period. The participatory approach was
successfully implemented with communities but the target of 68 communities to be reached proved to be
too ambitious and was later lowered. Actual communities reached numbered 42. The Bank also modified
its target from the individual village to the watershed, numbering several villages at a time, to improve
cost effectiveness and project impact. Operation of the Land Management Fund experienced some
difficulties because of poor communication and lack of efficient monitoring. Other problems experienced
included the absence of a strong working relationship with research institutions which is important for
practical demonstration of improved technologies to users.
10.   Coastal Wetlands Management. This component was funded under a GET Trust Fund which has
been extended by one more year to December 31, 1999. It will be reviewed separately, and a separate
implementation completion report will be prepared once the Fund closes.
11.   Major Factors Affecting Project Performance. The project performance was satisfactory overall,
but the pace of implementation was affected by a number of factors including poor synchronization of
donor assistance and lack of familiarity with procurement procedures on the part of the borrower, chronic
shortages of counterpart funding, limited capacity within Government agencies to implement certain
components, and lack of experience on the part of the executing agency at the initial stages, with this new
responsibility.
12.   Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was reviewed by a Quality Assurance Group
(QAG,) which rated quality at entry as good. However, it noted that certain aspects of project design
could have been improved. Supervision was deemed adequate and quality improved once the
responsibility for supervision was shifted to the field.
Future Operation
13.   Certain activities initiated under the GERMP will be carried over into a follow-up operation, the
Ghana Natural Resources Management Project. This operation will continue to support the EPA and
build on the EIS development by generating information on forestry, wildlife, andbiodiversity. To ensure
sustainability and counteract some of the problems of counterpart shortages the borrower is introducing
measures to improve program budgeting and release of funds. Shortages of counterpart funds can also be
alleviated by closer coordination between the Bank's macro and micro-level operations to better allocate
the country's resources. In addition, proposals have been made for commercializing certain services
made available through the project's initiatives, for example, the Remote Sensing Applications Unit
(RSAlJ), which is already charging fees.



- 1v -
Key Lessons Learned
14.   Establishing the capacity to manage and implement an environmentally sustainable development
strategy is a long-term goal which requires effective, sound, and coordinated policies, institutions and
regulatory frameworks within key sectors. So far, monitoring and enforcement remain a challenge to be
met. Ideally, the project should be implemented over a longer period more in line with the Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) approach, which allows flexibility to meet evolving needs.
15.   Integrating multiple executing agencies was a difficult challenge for the EPC (EPA). Such efforts
in the future must be supported by work across sectors to improve coordination and implementation must
be preceded by awareness-raising.
16.   The Government's capacity to allocate sufficient funds to the project was overestimated even
though the Government's commitment was strong. Alternative measures such as charging fees for
services generated by a number of agencies under the project could have filled some of the gap in funding
and enhanced sustainability of operations.
17.   Counterpart funds are not the only indicators of Government commitment. The Bank did not
react forcefully to the shortage of funds problem because other indicators of Government commitment
were demonstrated. In fact, the shortages may reflect Government strategic budgeting in the face of
strong donor support for other programs outside of its priority areas.
18.   The EPC (EPA) could not single-handedly monitor all activities in all sectors. Mechanisms
should have been developed which involve the private sector and civil society in monitoring
environmental compliance.
19.   An important lesson on community participation can be drawn from the Land and Water
Management pilot component. Because communities differ, the same strategy or common formula
cannot be used to obtain and sustain community participation across the country. Selection criteria for the
pilots should place greater emphasis on the willingness of communities to assume ownership of this
activity and to fully participate in the implementation action plans. It is important thatsocio-cultural
differences of communities be properly identified at an early stage so that the appropriate strategy can be
adopted to establish the pilot successfully.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2426-Gi
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
Background
1.    In the mid- 1980s, the Government of Ghana intensified efforts to establish environmental policies
in response to a period of severe droughts in Ghana and extensive bushfires which heightened public
awareness on environmental issues. Following some preliminary work on a National Conservation
Strategy in 1987, the Environmental Protection Council (EPC), a Government agency established in
1974, was charged with preparing the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). In formulating the
plan, the EPC secured the active collaboration of a wide range of individuals and institutions in Ghana
and the donor community, including the World Bank. In the process, EPC generated widespread
awareness of the importance of the issues involved and a consensus about the need for effective action.
The NEAP was endorsed by the Govermment in 1991, and major problems identified were soil
degradation and soil erosion, deforestation and forest degradation, and degradation of the natural and built
environment in the coastal zone. In addition, problems associated with industrial and mining activities
and rapid urbanization, notably water and air pollution, were becoming increasingly serious. Bank
funding for the Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP) focused on providing
institutional support to the EPC (transformed in 1994 into the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)),
and introducing improved practices on land management and better conservation efforts forbiodiversity
areas, particularly in the coastal wetlands. The Board approved the project in October 1992 and it became
the first free-standing project on environmental resources management in Ghana.
2.    The Bank's Credit (Cr. 2426-GH) was in the amount of US$18.1 million, with estimated
cofinarncing from ODA (DFID) of US$0.9 million and DANIDA of US$4.3 million out of a total project
cost of US$35.9 million. It was to be disbursed during the period 1992-1997. An associated GEF Grant
(GET TF 28619-GH) in the amount of US$7.2 million was approved in August 1992 to implement the
Coastal Wetlands Management component. Government contribution was estimated at US$5.4 million,
mostly for staff salaries and allowances. The Credit closing date was extended by one year to December
31, 1998, and the GET Grant was extended by two, one-year extensions to December 31, 1999.
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Design
3.    The GERMP's main development objective was to strengthen the capacity of the Government
and the people to manage environmental resources. It focused on:
(a)   improving the resource management capabilities - reorganizing and strengthening
institutions involved in environmental resource management, particularly the EPC (EPA);
developing environmental management skills in sectoral and local government agencies
through staff training; establishing effective inter-sectoral networks dealing with
environmental issues;
(b)   providing an improved environmental information system - supporting the management
system; improving understanding of environmental relationships; providing early



-2-
warning of environmental pollution and degradation, promoting public awareness
campaigns; and
(c)    promoting sustainable use of environmental resources - introducing improved land
management practices by involving communities in the planning and implementation of
measures to minimize land degradation (with emphasis on the fragile coastal wetlands
area); disseminating environmental information within public sector agencies at the
national and district levels, and the public at large.
4.     To achieve these objectives, the project included three main components:
(a)    Development of a National Environmental Resource Management System:
(i).    Management Development - build capacity in EPA to undertake coordinating,
monitoring and regulating functions; develop human resources (managemerit and
technical skills, environmental management training for agency staff at district
and national levels); provide environmental education (increase public awareness
of environmental issues, supporting electronic media and print campaigns using
govermment and NGO skills); and
(ii)    Development of an Environmental Information System  (EIS) - improve
collection, interpretation, and presentation of relevant of data and information to
monitor environmental quality, and create links between suppliers and users of
infornation.
(b)    Land and Water Management - on a pilot basis - planning, implementing, and monitoring
of measures to reduce land degradation.
(c)    Coastal Wetlands Management - the demarcation and management of five coastal
wetland sites which are important for migratory waterfowl.
5.    Project Objectives. The project objectives were clear, realistic and consistent with the Bank's
strategy for environment and development in Ghana. The project's primary objective is as relevant today
as it was when the project began. Ghana's forest areas outside the designated reserves are constantly
decreasing, agricultural production is being driven higher, and the mining sector is rapidly expanding.
The GERMP helped put in place the management capacity needed for Ghana to implement a sustainable
development strategy. It also built on the substantial investment in sector work made by the Bank on land
degradation and soil fertility management in Ghana prior to the launch of the GERMP. The project's
concept received strong support both within the Bank and from the broader environmental community,
and strong ownership from the Government of Ghana. It built on the support for implementation of the
NEAP provided through other IDA-funded projects on agricultural extension and forestry, mining, feeder
roads, and urban development, and later, environmental education through the livestock and education
projects.
6.    Complexity. The project management structure was complex to implement. In an area such as
environment, which touches on all aspects of government, boundaries had to be overcome and a certain
level of complexity was to be expected. Nevertheless, the EPC was able to work through networks of
individuals cutting across these boundaries. The project formalized these networks to some extent,
l This component was funded under a GET Trust Fund which will not be closing until December 31, 1999. It will not be
reviewed with this completion report on the GERMP but will be covered under a separate report once the Trust Fund is closed.



-3-
keeping channels open so that environmental planning did not become isolated from other national
priorities. However, integrating eight executing agencies within a complex project management structure
proved to be difficult for the EPC and the overlay of a number in inter-agency operating committees
added to the demands on the strained institutional capacities within the project.
7.    Risks. The SAR identified a slowing pace of economic recovery that would lead to shortfalls in
operational funding. Other risks correctly identified were the effectiveness of the enviromnental
management system as it relates to the ability to achieve effective inter-sectoral coordination of action in
developing an environmental information system, and the innovative approach of the land and water
management component. However, it did not foresee the EPC being transformed into an EPA with a
wider/broader mandate than a coordinating agency, nor did it foresee the lack of linkages with research
institutions and demonstrations for the Land and Water Management component.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
Institut'ional Capacity-building Objectives
8.    Environmental Management Development. The objective of strengthening the EPC, now the
EPA, hLas been achieved and is one of the key successes of the project. Although the project did not
foresee the transformation of the EPC into an environmental protection agency (EPA), a body corporate
with powers for enforcement, the project responded positively to this change and supported the agency
effectively in fulfilling its mandate. In fact, the expanded mandate of the EPA allowed the agency to
better implement the development programs for which it was responsible. Under the project, a
management framework with intersectoral networks in five sectors - natural resources, built environment,
mining and industry, environmental education, and compliance and enforcement - has been established
and regional offices aimed at effective coordination and management of environmental issues are
operating. Under the human resources sub-component, substantial investment was made in developing
human resource capability within the EPA. However, while the project was able to help set in place an
effective management framework at the national level, the monitoring and enforcement capacity at the
regional and local level remains a challenge. Expanded activities in key sectors such as mining and
industry pose a significant challenge to the EPA at the regional and local level. While the EPA Act
provides the broad mandate in terms of the need for environmental impact assessments (EIA) for
activities which may have adverse impacts on the environment, detailed regulations on EIA are still to be
finalized. In specific sectors such as mining, detailed regulations which address environmental impacts
are still to be formulated.
9.    With regards to studies and investigations, however, the program envisaged under the project was
not imlplemented as originally planned. Although the terms of reference have been prepared for 15
studies, only four major ones have been completed (Development Options for five Ramsar coastal
wetlands, a Feasibility Study of Chemu Lagoon, Industrial Waste, and Algae Bloom on the Coast of the
Western Region). The financial requirements for the remaining studies exceeded available resources and
have not been carried out. Several reasons can be attributed. In addition to delays in project start-up,
focus and emphasis at the beginning of the project was placed on capacity building of EPC/EPA - studies
waited. The SAR also overestimated the capacity of EPC/EPA to commission and follow-up on the
studies due to shortage of staff. Furthermore, when the EPC was transformed into the EPA, the scope of
the studies expanded along with EPA's mandate beyond the scope outlined in the SAR. Funding is being
soughit by EPA from multilateral and bilateral donors in order to carry out the remaining studies.
10.   Environmental quality monitoring is operational and targets on staff training has been achieved.
Data collection and basic analysis capability targets have been reached. Basic collection and analysis are



-4-
carried out in the regions while more detailed analyses are conducted at EPA headquarters and the Water
Research Institute and Standards Board.
Environmental Education Objectives
11.   The project supported efforts of the EPA in implementing the National Environmental Education
Strategy in collaboration with DFID, UK. Significant progress has been achieved in establishing
partnership with different segments of society including NGOs, the media, District Assemblies and
women's groups to implement elements of the strategy. Concerted efforts have been made to advance
non-formal environmental education awareness as well as to integrate environmental education into the
curricula of schools. Initiatives to collaborate with tertiary educational institutions including the
University of Cape Coast in integrating environmental science, policy and management into traditional
course curricula are progressing successfully. Sensitization workshops at the District level for District
Assembly personnel have also been important in improving environmental awareness and capacity at the
local level. This is an area where much more support is needed and follow on projects either at the
national level or at the district level should make targeted efforts to disseminate environmental awareness
within society at large. While the project only devoted a small percentage of the total funding towards
this component, sound environmental management in Ghana can only be achieved by fundamental
attitudinal and behavioral changes in society at large. International best practice aptly demonstrates the
critical role that civil society can play in monitoring and ensuring that environmental safeguards are in
place.
Environmental Information System Development (EISD) Objectives
12.   The objectives under this component were substantially achieved. All of the component's
physical targets have been met but certain implementation and sustainability issues remain.
13.   The Land Infornation Project Operation Committee (LIPOC), the official forum where all the
EISD agencies came together to discuss and agree on technical issues and solve their administrative and
operational problems, and its secretariat at EPC/EPA, have been running the network and providing the
needed technical and administrative problem-solving skills. EPCfEPA and other executing agencies are
now well-equipped to access data and information, although it remains to be seen whether investments in
EIS data will translate into more effective resource management. The sustainability of EIS investments
also poses problems since EIS equipment need to be maintained and it is not clear if this can be supported
by private sector marketing of EIS-related output. Finally, the sharing of responsibilities between
executing agencies involved in the EIS component of the project has not been without controversy.
Agencies both within and outside the EIS component have voiced concerns related to data sharing in the
absence of Bank enforcement as well as ambiguities in roles and responsibilities within the EIS
coordination network structure. Nevertheless, the core databases developed under the project were well-
received in Ghana and are considered a unique example of EIS development in Africa and Non-project
agencies have expressed interest in using the data and the institutions concerned have agreed that data use
should expand beyond that of executing agencies.
14.   Map production capability has been enhanced considerably under the project. The Survey
Department completed digital topographic maps covering the whole of Ghana, required as a basis for all
natural resource and environmental information development. Procedures for color printing of thematic
maps have also been developed (soil maps, land suitability maps, land use/land cover maps and land
ownership maps), and land use/land cover, maps covering the whole country have been developed by the
Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSAU), now a viable institution within the University of Ghana.



15.   On the land ownership issues, information on stool and family lands was completed for ten
Regions (Greater Accra, Ashanti, Western, Eastern, Northern, and Volta Region).
16.   A strong Geographic Information System unit was established and is operating within the Soil
Research Institute (SRI), in Accra. The unit completed the digital soil mapping of the whole country at
the scale specified in the SAR, research activities on digital elevation modules have been developed to
study soil erosion and land degradation, and land suitability maps for 40 land utilization types at the
required scales have also been produced.
17.   The Meteorological Service Department (MSD) made good progress and completed the data
entry and digitization of all its historic records and all backlogged meteorological data dating back to the
year 1900. The Department also developed an efficient system of data management and trained most of
its staff. MSD can now provide much of the data required at a level equivalent to international standards.
However, the department has yet to establish an effective response system to meteorological data
requirements for air and water quality monitoring.
18.   The re-establishment and modernization of the Survey School including designing the
curriculum, hiring and training the teachers and acquiring the basic furniture and equipment have been
accomplished. However, progress on the construction of buildings was slowed down due to lack of
timely decision-making on the part of the Survey Department.
Land and Water Management Objectives
19.   The objectives of this component were partially achieved. One of the main objectives for the first
year of project was the creation of a functional Land and Water Management Unit (LWMU) in the
Minisby of Agriculture and this has been achieved. This pilot component of the GERMP is cofinanced
by DANIDA and its support for the pilot activities is scheduled to continue throughout 1999. Despite
starting one year later than the rest of the project, the pilot made good progress with emphasis placed on
capacity building. The LWMU unit was strengthened by a merger with the Agroforestry unit, training for
Ministiy field staff has been carried out, and eight study tours for 67 senior staff in East and West Africa
to become acquainted with land and water management programs in these countries have been organized.
Training for tractor drivers/operators, bullock owners/operators and agricultural extension agents have
also been carried out on appropriate tillage and land preparation methods and in handling machinery and
draft animals. NGOs were actively involved in the education of farmers on the use of animal draught
power. Further regional training courses are planned for the future.
20.   The participatory approach of this component was successful and met with full acceptance from
communities, from problem identification to planning strategies and mapping out and implementing
programs to address local problems. However, the physical target of reaching 68 communities during
the five-year period was considered to be overly ambitious during the course of implementation and was
later lowered. Actual project activities covered 42 of the original 68 communities targeted over the
projecit's five-year period. The level of community acceptance and project impact was highest in the
savanna agro-ecological zones where the need for judicious management of natural resource base is most
felt. Even though community enthusiasm and cooperation with project staff was high for all aspects of
implernentation, targeting individual communities (villages) proved not to be cost-effective and carried
limited impact because one community's non-adoption of land conservation measures had a devastating
impact on a neighboring one (e.g., bushfires, sheet erosion, etc.). The last Bank mission recommended
changes to adopt watersheds as a unit of operation rather than the village so that several villages
occup ying a particular catchment could be involved at the same time and can develop and implement their
Village Land Development Plans concurrently.



- 6 -
21.   Weak linkages with the other project components, bilateral funding by another donor agency, and
the fact that the pilot was executed by a different agency underscored the component's detachment from
the mainstream and posed another coordination difficulty for the EPA. Bilateral funding led to
collaboration problems between donors, particularly when one donor maintains strong views on its
involvement at the micro-level to the exclusion of other donors.
22.   Operation of the Land Management Fund, which had earmarked US$4,000 per community for
initiating project activities, met with difficulties because of poor communication between the Ministry of
Food and Agriculture staff and the beneficiaries, and lack of effective fund monitoring.
23.   Organization and management aspects of this component were not implemented as successfully
as planned. For example, the absence of subject matter specialists meant that village teams had to assume
technical backstopping responsibilities for which they were not trained. With regards to linkages with
research institutions, a strong working relationship with the research system was absent, even though
informal links existed with individual resource persons at universities and research institutions. It will be
difficult to promote the adoption of improved technologies to minimize land degradation, increase soil
fertility, and raise crop yields without the practical demonstrations available through research.
Project Design
25.   A Quality Assurance Group2 (QAG) reviewed the project and found that the project's quality at
entry was good. It benefited from strong local ownership from the beginning and the highly participatory
NEAP process prior to the design of the GERMP. Project design focused on capacity-building and
benefited from strong intellectual inputs from the national environment community as well as from the
Bank, and incorporated several innovative elements of the time. However, three aspects of project design
could have been improved. First, forestry issues were important elements of the NEAP but were not
included in the GERMP because another operation, the Forest Resource Management Project (FRMP),
already addressed them at the time. However, the FRMP was closed after the GERMP was launched.
There could have been better coordination between the FRMP and the GERMP given the extent that both
projects addressed implementation of the NEAP. Second, the land and water management component,
which follows an agricultural extension model, was slow to take root, and in implementation, had few
conceptual or institutional linkages with the rest of the GERMP. Third, the project was designed to build
capacity within the EPA as well as among other executing agencies but, in fact, the project was
constrained by the limitations of EPA's institutional capacity.
Project Costs and Financing
26.   Actual project costs were US$31.4 million compared to an estimated total project cost of
US$35.9 million at appraisal. Government contribution amounted to about US$0.9 million out a planned
amount at appraisal of US$5.4 million3 (including the Coastal Wetlands component). IDA's actual
contribution amounted to US$17.9 million, compared to the estimated amount of US$18.1 million. An
undisbursed balance of about US$7,800 will be cancelled4. The credit closing date was extended by one
year. The rate of project implementation, as indicated by the rate of disbursements, lagged appraisal
estimates by about 20 percent until 1996 and was bunched towards the end of the project.
2 Quality Asurance Group Review of Biodiversity Projects in Africa, Februay 23, 1998.
3 Of which US$1.7 million are taxes and duties.
4At appraisal, SDR 12.600 million was approved, of which SDR 12.594 was disbursed and SDR 5.795 remains undisbursed and
will be cancelled.



- 7 -
27.   Parallel financing was provided by DANIDA and ODA (DFID/UK). The DANIDA-financed
portion of the EISD component will be closing end-July, 1999, while the cofinanced portion of the Land
and Water Management component is not due to close until November 1999. However, DANIDA
planned to conduct an appraisal of the latter around mid-1999 to determine if it can move into the next
phase. DANIDA funding for the EISD portion amounts to DKroner 20.0 million (about US$3.0
million)<, while the Land and Water Management portion has been increased fromDKroner 20.6 million
to DKroner 24.7 million (about US$3.6 million) due to an extension of advisory services.
28.   DDA (DFID) approved parallel financing for an amount of about UK£974,000 (about US$1.5
million) rather than the amount of US$0.9 million initially estimated at appraisal. This difference was due
to a typographical error in the SAR. Latest actual project costs were about UK£826,000 (about US$1.25
million) as of end-1997.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
29.  'Donor Coordination.  Although DANIDA and ODA (DFID) financing were parallel, the
interlocking nature of project implementation made it clear that a stronger coordination mechanism was
needed 1o guarantee synchronization. The existence of several donors posed coordination problems and
led to delays in implementing certain sub-components at the start of the project. The training component
funded under DANIDA depended on the purchase of computer equipment from the Bank. When
purchases of equipment was delayed due to the borrower's lack of familiarity with Bank procurement
procedures, DANIDA's implementation of the training component fell out of sync with the rest of the
components.  On the other hand, implementation of the Land and Water Management component
commerLced in November 1994, one year after the GERMP became effective. The main reason was the
delayed deployment of the DANIDA technical assistance specialist pending the final decision of MOFA
to merge the Agro-forestry Unit and the Land and Water Management Unit, which was a mobilization
condition of DANIDA.
30.   Bank staff turnovers during most of the project's implementation period caused loss of project
"rlmemory" and long delays as proposals were shifted from desk to desk. Two ODA-funded components
were affected by such delays with Bank-funded activities.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
31.   Recent, relatively high, turnover within the EPA, particularly of senior staff to international
agencies and to the private sector relates to the difficult issue of adequate incentives for retaining highly
trained and experienced staff within the public service.
32.   Late project start-up and shortages of counterpart funds throughout implementation was reflected
in slow disbursements and caused some major project activities such as civil works and training to lag
behind schedule, in particular, the construction of the Survey School buildings and laboratory which will
have to be completed after the project's closing.
33.   For the Land and Water Management component, Government capacity for implementing this
component was limited, even though much progress was made in terms of building tp capacity under the
project. There remains an urgent need to train the subject matter specialists so that they can provide the
technical support needed to implement this component successfully.
5 Estimated at a March 1998 exchange rate of DK6.95 = US$1.0 since yearly disbursement figures are unavailable.



Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
34.   Project implementation was slow initially because the position of the Executive Director of EPC
(EPA) remained vacant. It was not until a year after project effectiveness that this position was filled and
implementation the project accelerated once EPC (EPA) leadership was established. EPC (EPA) also had
limited experience with coordinating a complex network of eight committees. Intersectoral coordination
remains a challenge despite functioning intersectoral networks. Sectoral representatives on the networks
often lack exposure and influence in the strategic thinking and policy-making processes within their
respective sectors.
Implementation Delays
35.   Because of the late start up of implementation and the fact thatDANIDA's project was a six-year
project while the Bank's was scheduled as a five-year project, the closing date was extended by one year
to December 31, 1998 to allow certain project activities to be completed.  These included the
development of EPA's Five-year Strategic Plan and human resources development plan; construction of
EPA regional offices and strengthening of regional programs; further strengthening and development of
the EIS and promotion of its use as a planning tool by private and public institutions within Ghana;
expansion of the LWMU's field activities and further testing of the collaborative land management
arrangements.
D.    Project Sustainability
36.   In the short-term, the project will be sustainable with additional funding under a follow-up
operation. The deteriorating state of counterpart funding during the latter half of the project indicates the
lack of financial support from the government for the project in 1998 and raises serious concerns about
the long-term sustainability of the project without additional funding from donors.
37.   However, the foundation has been laid for a longer-term sustainability of environmental resources
management in terms of capacity-building of the major institutions. The GERMP project forms the first
phase of a long-term strategy for implementing the NEAP and EPA is a credible and well-respected
institution in the country which will play an important role in ensuring the sustainability of the program.
Furthermore, since the project has supported activities in various government agencies, sustainability of
the program does not depend on EPA alone, but on how other sector agencies see their role in the
environment. On the legislative side, it is now a mandatory requirement in Ghana for any new projects to
conform to environmental policies and guidelines and to obtain permits from EPA.
38.   Development of an environmental information system was a complex activity and will require a
few more years to be internalized. However, through the project, substantial training in environmental
management has been provided and awareness of environmental issues has been increased. This has
generated a demand for the data developed which may increase in the future. Refinement of the EIS will
be one of the objectives of the forthcoming Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) under the
Environment Management Coordination component.
39.   Application case studies in EIS, which were developed in different fields of environment and
natural resource management, generated interest from agencies not associated with the project. Many of
these agencies have requested association with LIPOC. This is a good indicator of sustainability for this
component.



-9-
E.    Bank Performance
40.   The Bank's performance has been satisfactory, consistent with the QAG rating. The overall
quality of Bank supervision was adequate and the skills mix during missions was appropriate to carry out
effective monitoring and advisory functions. Initial delays in project implementation were due, in part, to
lack of preparation in procurement and Bank procedures, unexpected staffing changes and disagreement
between a donor and the counterpart agency on conditions for implementing the soil and moisture
conservation component. When supervision responsibility shifted to the field, the quality of project
supervision and problem-solving improved considerably, particularly in procurement and fiduciary
aspects. Implementation accelerated and conservation efforts, after a two-year delay, began to yield
results.
41.   However, supervision could have been stronger in some respects. First, a major change took
place early in the project's life when the EPC was converted from an advisory council to a full-fledged
regulatory authority - the EPA. At the time, there was no explicit project "rework" to support the new
mandate. A strategic vision and human resource management plan for the EPA are now being developed
but could have been initiated earlier. Second, the project has suffered from budget constraints and
staffing shortages since its inception. These problems were raised as a generic issue by the project staff at
the "political level" of the Bank or Government during CPPR meetings, but, alternatively, supervision
teams cculd have recommended possible alternatives such as redesign or rescheduling. More determined
country-level management might have led to project "rework" to retrofit project scope to financial and
staffing realities. Supervision missions did not confront the counterpart funds issue, in part because there
were other indications of Government commitment to environmental management, and in part because of
the overall budget constraints owing to the macroeconomic environment.
F.    Borrower Performance
42.   The Borrower's performance was mixed. Although the Government showed a strong national
sense of ownership in the project, a strong political will to tackle the problems identified, and
commitment to decentralization and public sector reform (also important assets for the project),
counteipart funding throughout the duration of the project was highly unsatisfactory. The project suffered
from chronic counterpart fund shortages. During the last year of the project (1998), no counterpart funds
were received by the project from a Government approved budget of about Cedi 1.8 billion. The project
has been unable to make full payments for goods and supplies which relied on counterpart funds. This
exacerbated an already deteriorating situation where in 1996 and 1997, the project received an average of
15 percent of the amount budgeted, and nothing in 1995. This meant that the project will be indebted to
several suppliers following the project's closing. Overall, the prqject has received about US$0.9 million
(20 percent) of the US$4.2 million equivalent approved by the Government as contribution to the project.
The project's history of inadequate counterpart funding could threaten the sustainability of activities and
capacities built up in other agencies and institutions over the life of the project if it is not resolved.
43.   Audits. Project accounts were audited regularly every year and the audits showed an adequate
compliance with the administrative, accounting and financial requirements from the beginning of the
project period. The audit report and management letter of auditors for the 1997 fiscal year audit was
submitted ahead of schedule, and IDA's review did not identify any issues to be addressed in particular.
Points such as the absence of a fixed assets register which made the subject of auditors' comments on the
1996 audited accounts have been corrected. Fixed asset registers for various implementing agencies of
the prcject have been prepared. The final audit for the project following its closing is in progress.
44.   Compliance with Legal Covenants. In general, compliance with legal covenants have been
satisfactory except for some delays in compliance in establishing workplans which had to be redone.



- 10 -
Total compliance with the completion of studies covenant has not been possible because insufficient
funds were provided at the appraisal stage.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
45.   The overall assessment of the project's achievement of its major objectives is satisfactory. The
project contributed to the establishment and strengthening of a number of institutions forming a strong
network in the area of environmental management. Valuable environmental information on most
environmental problems has been generated and disseminated widely. EPA, through its newly developed
capacity and the network, is now able to develop environmental policies and programs, monitor
environmental problems and provide advice to the government at national and local levels.
46.   Although the integration of these components was somewhat limited due in part to the delays in
start-up of some project elements, the GERMP worked in tandem with a larger Bank portfolio as a whole
within the context of an environmental program. It contained active coordination among many external
donors in the field of environmental resource management and institution-building.
47.   The EPA performed satisfactorily throughout project implementation. The role of EPA has
evolved from one of coordination to one of a full-fledged regulatory agency following an act of Ghana's
parliament which enhanced its powers. Under the twinning arrangements with Victoria EPA (Australia),
it developed the Five-year Strategic Plan. It has become a well-managed organization with few but
motivated staff, commanding a high level of credibility and respect within the country. Furthermore,
many Africa countries visit Ghana to learn from EPA and the project's experiences.
H.    Future Operation
48.   Presently, certain activities generated under the GERMP (e.g., the Five-year Strategic Plan and
the environmental support at local council level) will continue and be implemented under the next Bank-
financed operation, the NRMP. This project will continue to support the EPA as well as build on the EIS
development by generating information on forestry, the Savannah, wild life andbiodiversity. The RSAU,
which became operational before October 1998 under the GERMEP, is expected to provide valuable
support on a contractual basis to implement the EIS component under this follow-up operation.
49.   The Government of Ghana and DANIDA, which co-financed the pilot Land and Water
Management component, have developed a three-year consolidation phase following the pilot. This
follow-up phase will focus on capacity building at the district and community levels and will be an
integral part of an agricultural extension services network. It will form part of a national strategy for land
and water management under another Bank operation, the Agricultural Services Sector Investment project
(AGSSIP).
50.   The enhanced capacities in all agencies and the large number of staff trained in the various
agencies will hopefully continue to have strong impact on national environmental policies and programs
for a long time to come. Hopefully the system of networking and working across ministerial and
departmental boundaries developed under the project will continue and expand in the longer term
planning, e.g., under the Five-year Strategic Plan.
51.   To address the problem of shortages in funding, the borrower is introducing measures to improve
budget allocation and the release of funds including a budget plan to improve the framework for
medium-term expenditures. At the local level, district assemblies will incorporate the budget plan which
will be funded from their district budget. At the donor level, closer coordination between the Bank's
structural/sectoral adjustment operations and lending operations at the individual project level is needed



- 11 -
for the country to better organize the country's resource allocation. As result, guarantee funding under
the plans at the macro level would be better suited to the ability of the Government to fulfill financial
obligations under the project agreements. Other measures to support sustainability such as
commercialization of services have also been proposed by the borrower. For agencies such as the RSAU,
fees for services are already being charged.
52.   With regards to studies, EPA intends to use the proposed studies for which the terms of reference
have already been written to solicit funds from sponsors (DANIDA, European Union, World Bank, or
other) to finance their completion.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
53.   Establishing management capacity to implement an environmentally sustainable development
strategy is a long-term goal which requires that policies, institutions and the regulatory framework be
effective, sound, coordinated, and mainstreamed within key sectors (agriculture, mining, logging and
timber extraction, and small- and medium-scale industries). While much progress has been made in
strengthening environmental management capacity at the national level, monitoring and enforcement
remains a challenge. Heavy staff turnover at the national level - particularly highly trained and
experienced personnel - and weak operational capacity at the regional and district level compound the
problems. Furthermore, the regulatory framework will require assessment and strengthening in view of
expanding activities in key sectors such as mining and industry. The project, therefore, should have been
implemented over a longer period consistent with the longer term objectives. A key lesson, therefore, is
that projects supporting environmental management follow a program approach such as the current APL,
as opposed to project specific lending. The APL approach would have enabled flexibility in emphasis to
meet evolving needs.
54.   Integrating multiple executing agencies proved a difficult challenge for the EPC (EPA). Such
efforts must be supported by work across sectors to improve coordination, and implementation must be
preceded by awareness-raising.
55.   The project overestimated Government's capacity for allocating sufficient funds to the project
despite the interest and enthusiasm on the Government's part in protecting the environment and
incorporating environmental issues on its development agenda. Alternative measures to charge fees for
services generated under the follow-up project could fill some of the gap in funding and enhance
sustainability of the operations.
56.   Counterpart funds are not the only indicators of Government-commitment. In this case, the Bank
did nolt follow-up forcefully on the chronic shortage of funds because the Government demonstrated its
commitment to environmental management, and the shortage was not seen by the Bank as a critical threat
to the achievement of project objectives. The Government may have strategically and rationally
budgeted fewer resources to one of its own priority areas because of strong donor support for other
programs. This underlines the importance of a full and thorough review of Government actions and
financing when assessing commitment and ownership of projects.
57.   It is clear that the EPA could not single-handedly monitor all activities in all sectors. Therefore,
mechanisms should have been developed which involved the private sector and civil society in
monitoring environmental compliance. While the project clearly has achieved significant progress in
putting in place the basic framework for environmental management capacity in the country, the
challenge is still far from being met. A follow-on project as well as sectoral projects needs to be
proactive in ensuring that environmental impact is satisfactorily integrated into the developmental
processes.



- 12 -
58.   The LWM pilot operation was not designed on an integrated area catchment management basis
(as is planned for the Savannah resources management component of the follow-up NRMP operation),
but on a community basis. An important lesson on community participation can drawn. Because
communities differ, the same strategy or common formula cannot be used to obtain and sustain
community participation across the country. Selection criteria for the pilots should place greater
emphasis on the willingness of communities to assume ownership of this activity and to fully participate
in the implementation action plans. It is important that socio-cultural differences of communities be
properly identified at an early stage so that the appropriate strategy can be adopted to establish the pilot
successfully.



- 13
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8]3:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial     Partial        Neligible      Not aplicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                 [ 0              0l
Financial Objectives              al o                                          I 
Institutional Development                       [               El El
Physical Objectives                             E               E                El
Poverty Reduction                E                              E                El
Gender Issues                    Cl             El              El
Other Social Objectives            l            [               E                E
Environmental Objectives         []             E               E                E
Public Sector Management         [               0              E                E
Private Sector Development       El                             E                E
Other (specify)                  E              E                   
(Continued)



- 14 -
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                      (e)                       (/)
C. Bank Performance                satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                     I3                       o 
Preparation Assistance             E                                                 El 
Appraisal                          E                                                  E l
Supervision                          l                     [X 
Highly
D. Borrower Performance             satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(v')                    (/)                       (/)
Preparation                        El                                    El
Implementation                     E                          i                       El
Covenant Compliance                El                      [                          0
Operation (if applicable)            l                     IX 
Hghl                                            IHighly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(e                              El                El



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title       Purpose                             Year of           Status
approval
Preceding operations
Mining Sector        Rehabilitate mines, attract private capital for  1988  Closed Dec. 31, 1996
Rehabilitation       joint ventures, capacity building
Forest Resources     Strengthen institutional framework for forestry   1989  Closed June 30, 1997
Management Project   sector policy and programs, promote
management of forestry resources (industrial
forestry, game and wildlife, agro-forestry,
community forestry, research and training)
National Feeder Roads  Implement sustainable feeder road maintenance  1992  Closed June 30, 1998
system, employment creation, and capacity
building
National Agricultural   Strengthen extension system through     1992      Ongoing. Closing date
Extension            programming and supervision, provide                 November 1, 1999
extension-research linkages, training, and
emphasize WID programs
Tertiary Education   Introduce graduate level education in      1992      Closed Sept. 30, 1998
Project              environmental economics
Livestock Project    Raise incomes for smallholders and reduce  1993      Ongoing. Closing date
financial burden of Government services to the      Dec. 31. 1999
livestock sector; provide institutional and policy
reforms to allow producers better access to
livestock health services, water and forage
resources, improved stock, and improved
technology.
Second Education     Introduce environmental education in the   1993      Ongoing
Project              nation's primary and secondary schools
Following operations
Natural Resources    Promote sustainable management of land, forest  1998  Ongoing. Closing date
Management Project   and wildlife resources and to increase income of     Sept. 30, 2000
(APL)                rural communities. The biodiversity
conservation component aims to protect
biological resources, especially within
threatened moist tropical ecosystems.



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    April 23, 1991  April 23, 1991
Preparation                               May 11, 1991        May 27, 1991
Appraisal                                 February 29, 1992    February 29, 1992
Negotiations                                                  August 11, 1992
Letter of Sector Policy 1/                                    February 25, 1992
Board Presentation                                            October 15, 1992
Signing                                                       December 21, 1992
Effectiveness                                                 March 12, 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)                                October 10, 1996
Project Completion                        June 30, 1997       June 30, 1998
Credit Closing                            Dec. 31, 1997       December31, 1998
1/ An Agricultural Sector Policy Letter was done in the context of the Agricultural Sector Adjustrnent Credit (Cr. 2345-GH).
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ millions)
FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00  FY01
Appraisal estimate          2.4      7.3      11.6    14.7    17.0    18.1        -       -
Actual                      0.8      2.1      5.1      8.8      11.2    15.7    17.9   18.1
Actual as % of estimate      33       28       44       60      66       87      99      100
Date of final disbursement:  May 12, 1999



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators in SAR for Project Implementation
A. Environmental Management Development:
Management Development         Meeting of the EPC (EPA)
Meetings of inter-sectoral networks
Implementation of course of action recommended by EPA
Introduction of management information system
Introduction of program budgeting in all participating agencies
Development and results of monitoring and evaluation programs
Progress with special and investigations
Environmental Education         Planning and progress with formal environmental education for
EPC/TS and sectoral agency staff
Planning and progress with training of staff of sectoral agencies and district staff
Progress with public awareness campaigns and numbers of media programs
Environmental Quality Information Establishment of monitoring program and agreement on threshold values
Numbers of analyses
Reliability of analyses in relation to international standards
Trends in results
Geographic B'ase Information   Production of digital topographic maps
Present Land Use Information   Production of digital land use maps and bulletins
Soil Information               Production of digital soil maps and bulletins
Slope and Elevation Analysis    Production of hectare rosters
Meteorologicail Information    Progress with computerization of data and analysis
Land Suitability Information  Production of land suitability maps and bulletins
B. Land and Water Management:
Establishment; of Land and Water Management Training Unit
Development of methods for community-based planning and management of resources
Progress witn staff training
Establishment: of Land and Water Management Fund and procedures for disbursement
Numbers of communities visited by Village Planning Teams
Numbers of hectares of land on which improved land and water management practices have been adopted
Production impact of improved land and water management practices
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators were specified in the SAR.



- 18 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                    Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined               Status
1. Volta River Basin Development: Study of Environmental   Describe existing, planned, and possible future developments and
Aspects                                                    their environmental impact and identify conflicts in using
resources in the Volta Basin; formulate strategy for minimizing
adverse environmental effects.
Volta River Basin (Ghanaian): Environmental impact of socio-  As Above.                                                NI; TOR
demographic and ethnological change
Ecological studies of the tributary rivers of the Volta Lake  As above.                                                NI; TOR
Evaluating the costs of environmental degradation in Ghana  As above.                                                 NI; TOR
Ecological studies of the tributary rivers of the Volta Lake  As above                                                 NI; TOR
I. Development Options in Coastal Wetlands                 Examine options for development which are of special ecological
sign ifcance under the Ramsar Convention.
Development Options for Coastal Wetlands                   As above.                                                   C
Management proposals for the Owabi Reservoir and Wildlife  As above.                                                   NI; TOR
Sanctuary
Management strategies for the Tano River, Brong Ahafo      As above.                                                   NI; TOR
Management of the Densu River Basin, Eastern Region        As above.                                                   NI; TOR
Algal Bloom.                                               As above.                                                   C



- 19 -
Study                                    Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined              Status
Ill Frn'irnnmlp"fn1I  Suslinnle nflv-l-n-lnmont Vftraporuie  InahIp n1anners at Ihe natinal level tn oXamine Pnvironmental
consequences of development strategies, linking the natural
resource base with demographic and economic information;
establish a dialogue between analysts and planners in order to
build models that integrate environment, population and
________________________    development concerns.
District level environmental information system phase 1                                                              NI; TOR
Regional or district level environmental profiles and locally                                                        NI; TOR
appropriates manuals.
Procedures and methodologies air quality and industrial emissions                                                    NI; TOR
Jirapa Youth and Development Assoc. Agroforestry and Savannah   As above.                                            NI; TOR
restoration.
Environmental information meta. database                  As above.                                                  NI; TOR
IV. Environmental Problems at District Level              Enable District Environmental Commitees to commission studies
to resolve particular localproblems or to undertake EIAs for
planned developments.
Industrial Waste                                          As above.                                                  C
Solid and liquid domestic disposal inventory and national strategy    As above.                                      NI; TOR
development
V. Hydrological Improvements to Sakumo Lagoon             Determine the most suitable methods of improving lagoon outlet
connection to the sea and of dredging the lagoon.
Management plan for disposal of hazardous wastes          As above.                                                  NI
Detailed feasibility study for the restoration of Chemu 11 Lagoon    As above.                                       C
Fosu Lagoon conservation studies                          As above.                                                  Study begun
C - completed.
NI - not implemented.
TOR - Terms of reference are completed and available.



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate     Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)           (US$ million)
Item                                         Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign   Total
costs   costs           costs  costs
1. Development of Environmental
Resource Management System:
A. Environmental Mgt. Development
- Institutional Support to EPC/TS         2.2     3.1    5.3
- Human Resource Development              0.4      1.4    1.8
- Environmental Education                 0.5     0.3    0.8
B. Environmental Information System
Development:
- Environmental Quality                   0.6      1.4   2.0
- Topographic Base Information            0.6      3.8    4.4
- Present Land Use                        0.5      1.7   2.2
- Land Ownership                          0.2      0.4    0.6
- Meteorological Information              0.1      0.6    0.7
- Land Suitability                        0.1      0.4    0.5
Sub-total                                    5.2    13.1   18.3                      18.4
2. Land and Water Management                    2.8      2.7    5.5                      5.8
3. Coastal Wetlands Management                  4.0    2.20    6.2                       7.2
Physical and Price Contingencies             2.8      3.2    5.9
Total                                        14.8    21.1   35.9                     31.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                   Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                          (US$ million)
Item             Local costs  Foreign costs   Total      Local costs Foreign costs  Total
IDA                                 4.0           14.1      18.1                                 17.9
GET i/                              4.1            3.1      7.2                                   7.2
DFID(ODA)/UK                          -            0.9       0.9                                  1.2
DANIDA 2/                            1.3           3.0       4.3                                  4.1
Government of Ghana                 5.4              -      5.4                           -       0.9
Total                              14.8          21.1      35.9 3/                               31.4
1/ A final estimated will be available once the trust fund is closed (December 31, 1999) and a separate evaluation report is prepared.
2/ This is not a final estimate since the DANIDA project is not expected to close until end-l999.Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits.
3/ Includes duties and taxes of $1.7 million.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



- 21 -
Tnhle 1 O- Status of Legs! Covenants 6
Agreement    Section    Covenant Present  Original   Revised                     Description of covenant                         Comments
Type    Status  fulfillment fulfillment
date       date
DCA          Art. 3.02 (b)  4        CP                             In addition to the initial deposit, deposit into the project  Disbursement of counterpart funds
account promptly before each fiscal quarter, starting after continues to be slow and
the effective date, the Borrower's contribution to the  inadequate.
financing of the project required for such ensuing quarter
under tihe project's work program.
DCA          Sch. 4 (2a)   10        CD                             Each Projects Operations Committee shall: (a) not later   Workplans have been established.
than Janiary 1, 1993 and each June I thereafter submit to However, effectiveness of these
IDA for its comments a proposed aniual program for the  workplans are hampered by lack of
subsequent calendar year covering plans for formal  counterpart funds and
education and training, workshops, public awareness  modifications.
campaigns and other actions; and
DCA          Sch. 4 (2b)   10        CD                             (b) not later than September 30 next, following such  (See explanation above).
submission, adopt such program as modified to take into
account IDA's comments.
DCA          Sch. 4 (4)    12        C                               Borrower to establish inter-sectoral networks of   Networks have been reactivated by
government agencies to support Borrower's          EPA, and information exchange has
environmental planning, monitoring, management and    improved.
enforcement activities.
DCA          Sch. 4 (5)   5          C       01/01/1994             Borrower to adopt a human resource development plan    Human resources development plan
and establish a scheme of service acceptable to IDA, and  designed, but not acceptable to IDA.
to implement the plan promptly and apply such criteria.   Plan was redesigned with support
from Victoria EPA.
DCA          Sch. 4 (6)    6         CP                             EPC to commission studies relating to the: (a) Volta  Consultant engaged to assist EPA
River Basin; (b) Coastal Wetlands; (c) Environmentally   has prepared TORs. Studies have
Sustainable Strategies; (d) District Level Environmental  not been carried out.
Problems; (e) Hydrological Improvements of the Sakumo
,Lagoon.
6 Includes covenants not complied with or complied with partially.



- 22 -
Section    Covenant Present   Original    Revised                       Description of covenant                              Comments
Agreement                  Type        Status   fulfillment  fulfillment
(continued)                                         date        date
DCA           Sch. 4 (7)     6          CD       06/01/1993                EPC to submit to IDA a communications strategy to carry Public awareness strategy designed
out the public awareness program and thereafter promptly and implementation commenced.
implement such strategy as revised to incorporate IDA
comments. The public awareness program shall support
the use of electronic media and print campaigns and of
non-governmental organizations, and shall include a
_component directed at rural areas.
DCA           Sch. 4 (8b)    6, 12      CP                                 EPC/TS to cause, and oversee the undertaking of        Monitoring arrangements initiated.
analyses of such samplings by: (i) CSIR's Institute of
Aquatic Biology and Water Research Institute; and (ii)
olher laboratories inspected and approved by the Ghana
Standards Board under TOR acceptable by IDA.
DCA           Sch. 4 (13)    5          CD                                 Borrower to establish and operate at least three field-  Ten teams established and
based land management teams under TOR acceptable to   operational.
_IDA.
DCA           Sch. 4 (13)    5, 11      NYD                                Borrower to operate through LWMPOC the land            Fund management principles and
management fund acceptable to IDA.                     counterpart eligibility under
discussion.
DCA           Sch. 4 (15b)   6, 10      CP        12/31/1993               Borrower to take all legislative actions to establish  Ramsar sites officially registered
Ramsar sites.                                          with the RamsarConvention but
legal establishment not completed.
DCA           Sch. 4 (16)    6, 10      CP                                Borrower to maintain Ramsar sites and to comply with    Ramsar guidelines followed in
terms of Ramsar Convention.                            management of the sites.
DCA           Sch. 4 (17)    10         CP                                Borrower to operate investment support fund under terms Fund fully operational.
I__________  ___________  I_________          acceptable  to  IDA.
DCA           Sch. 4 (18)    6, 10      CP                                Game and Wildlife Department to establish site          Monitoring on-going. Related to
_monitoring program and annual report.                 GEF project (see above).
Covenant types:                                                                                                            Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                                                                                      C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    8. = Indigenous people                                 CD = complied with after delay
3. I:low and utilizationi oi projcct fniiids               9. - Monim(o-iiig rcview, uid reporting                        CI( - complied willi partizally
4. = Counterpart funding                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9     NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency  I1. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
6. - Environmental covenants                               12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                              13. = Other



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The project was carried out in compliance with the Bank's Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Revised                   Actual
Stage of project cycle       Weeks    US$         Weeks    US$            Weeks          US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                          137.6       234.5
Appraisal                                                                         35.8         94.1
Negotiations through Board                                                         4.8         14.9
appiroval
Supervision/Completion                                                            173.5       380.1
Total                                                          351.7        723.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2        Types of
Stage of project cycle       Month/    No. of  Days             Specialization'          Implem.         Devel.    Problems3
Year      Persons    in                                    Status       objectives
Field
Through Appraisal
Identification                     10/90        6        22   0, E, EC                         n.r.          n.r.           n.r.
Pre-appraisals                     11/91        8        25   E, DM, SP, EG, LWM, EC           n.r.          n.r.           n.r.
Appraisal - Board Approval           3/92        10       20   EC, E, DM, G, 0                  n.r.           n.r.          n.r.
Supervision 1                       2/93         3        7   E, D, TM                           S             S          P, AM, D
Supervision 2                       5/93         2        18   E, EC, G                          S             S           P, AM
Supervision 3 - Project launch      6/93         2        8   E, G, A                            S             S           AS, CF
Supervision 4                       2/94         7        24   E, EC, G, FO, B, AG               S             S           AS, CF
Supervision 5                       5/95         4        15   FO, E, B, 0                       S              S           CF, D
Supervision 6                       4/96         5        7   G, E, B                            S             S             CF
Supervision 7 - Midi-term Review    10/96        3        11   B, G, 0                                         S 5           CF
Supervision 8                     10-11/97       7        15   G, F, P, E, O                     S              S          CF, AM
Completion                          10/98        12       23   G, E, EC                          S              S            CF
I - Key to Specialized staff skUls:          2 - Key to Perfornance Ratings:   3-Key to Types of Problens:
AG - agriculturalist, agronomist             S - satisfactory                  AM - implementing agency administrative/management
B - biologist                                HS - highly satisfactory          AS - implementing agency staffing
D - disbursements                            U - unsatisfactory                CF - availability of counterpart funds
DM - data/info. management specialist        HU - highly unsatisfactory        D - donor technical assistance delays
E - environmental specialist                 n.r. - not rated                  ST - staff turnover
EC - economist                                                                 FM - financial management
EG - engineer                                                                  P - procurement
F - financial specialist                                                       n.r. - not rated
FO - forestry specialist
G - general: TTL/projects officer/operations officer
LW - land & water mngt. specialist
P - procurement specialist
SP - survey specialist
0 - other: soil specialist, human resources,
sociologist, coramunications specialist



- 24 -                    APPENDIX 1
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (GERMP)
(Cr. 2426-GH)
Implementation Supervision and Assistance Mission -- Sept. 21 - Oct. 14,1998
Aide Memoire
I. Introduction
1.    An IDA  implementation supervision and assistance mission visited the Ghana
Environmental Resources Management Project (GERMP) from September 21 to October
14, 1998,7 to review and assess the status and progress of project implementation with
respect to the agreed project objectives, agree with the implementing agencies on the
work program and timetable for key activities to be carried out during the three months
remaining until the scheduled project closing date of December 31, 1998, and initiate the
process of preparing the Implementation Completion Report.
2.    The mission visited project sites, met and held discussions with officials of the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and all project implementing agencies, local
government authorities, traditional leaders and people at project sites, and technical
experts contracted by the project. It also met with representatives of the Danish
government which is providing financial and technical assistance to the project. The
assistance and cooperation of all these is gratefully acknowledged. The wrap-up meeting
on October 9, to discuss the mission's draft aide memoire and agree on actions to be
taken, was chaired by Mr. J. Allotey, Project Coordinator, EPA, and attended by
representatives of all project implementing agencies as well as DANIDA, the cofinancier
for two project components.
3.-   The aide memoire (which is subject to approval by Bank management) focuses on the
major issues that need to be addressed between now and the scheduled project closing in
December 1998 to ensure that the essential project objectives and outcomes are achieved and
consolidated and have a realistic chance of being sustained beyond the project's life.
7   The mission was led by G. Schreiber (AFTR3) and comprised Ms. P. Mensah (AFMGH) and Messrs. C. Annor-Frempong,
K. Awanyo, F. Yankey, C. Ofori (AFMGH), L. Camnpbell, K. Creighton (AFTR3) and H. Hassan (ENV). Mr. S. Bekure
(AFMGH) participated in some of the mission's activities. Messrs. E. Nii Ashie Kotey and Charles Quansah collaborated
with the mission on behalf of DANIDA.



- 25 -                  APPENDIX 1
II. Staitus of Project Implementation
A. Environmental Management Development
4.    Institutional Strengthening of EPA. The institutional strengthening of EPA shows
continuing good results. As lead agency for the GERMP, EPA has been effectively coordinating
LIPOC agencies under the EIS component and provides important disbursement and
procurement support to project implementing agencies. EPA has developed an effective
intersectoral network of five sectors -- natural resources, built environment, mining and industry,
environmental education, and compliance and enforcement -- at its headquarters and has
established offices in all 10 Regions. These arrangements aim at effective coordination and
management of environmental issues at national and local levels.
5.    Regional Programs. EPA now has offices in all ten Regions, with plans to open a
district office in the Western Region by the end of 1998 to monitor mining activities. About a
third of EPA staff, numbering 63, is now located in the Regions. The regional offices are
equipped with computers, audio-visual and monitoring equipment, and books. Office facilities
and staff housing are at various stages of construction and are expected to be completed by
December. At present, the main activities at the regions are environmental education and, to a
lesser extent, field inspection to support EIA reviews, liaising with other sectoral agencies, and
assisting District Assemblies (DAs) and other local institutions. Regional staff are also active in
collecting data and undertaking basic analyses for water quality monitoring. In addition, the
regional offices have prepared draft environmental profiles for their respective regions. EPA's
presence in the Regions represents both an opportunity and a challenge to develop effective
partnerships with institutions at the district level. Capacity building of, and partnership with, the
DAs should be pursued as a priority activity to ensure wide dissemination of environmental
messages.
6.    Environmental Information and Public Affairs. Over the past year, about 200 records
have been added to EPA's database (Ghana Environmental Database) which now contains some
3,200 records (electronically accessible reports, books, etc.). The agency's library continues to
serve t[e public. Work to establish a home page on the internet and a local area network (LAN)
within the agency is being accelerated in an effort to complete these undertakings before the end
of December.
7.    Environmental Education. Good progress continues to be made in implementing EPA's
National Environmental Education Strategy (NEES), notably in terms of collaboration and
partnerships with various segments of society (NGOs, media, DAs, women's groups). Important
activities undertaken during the past year include follow-up on the school curriculum audit,
support to non-formal education, preparation of teaching aids, and organization of workshops for
DAs. In supporting non-formal education, the Environmental Education Department (EED) of
EPA has provided input into the development of primers for teaching, organized workshops for
NGOs., religious and women's groups and the media, and has developed network committees
with the Agricultural Extension and Fire Services. EED has collaborated with the Ministry of
Education to prepare a draft Teachers Guide for environmental education in schools. It has also
initiated efforts to collaborate with the University of Cape Coast, the College of Education at



- 26 -                  APPENDIX I
Winneba, and the University of Delaware to strengthen national capacity in environmental
science, environmental policy and environmental management. For the remainder of 1998, EED
will focus on: (i) completing the Teachers Guide; (ii) collaborating with tertiary institutions to
develop a syllabus on environment; (iii) organizing training workshops for sensitization and
developing District Environmental Action Plans for the five DAs not yet covered; and (iv)
developing a program to monitor EE activities.
8.    Environmental Assessment and Audit (EAA). Until recently, the EAA department
concentrated on screening and granting environmental permits and on building capacity in the
public and private sectors. With rapidly rising demand to review environmental impact
assessment (EIA) applications, EAA is now focusing on reviews of EIAs and environmental
management plans -- in addition to investigating complaints. EPA has prepared guidelines on
environmental assessment and EIA procedures, and is preparing to revise these to bring them up
to date. Environmental guidelines have been prepared for air quality, water quality and mining;
those for road construction are under review with the Ghana Highways Authority, and draft
guidelines have been prepared for forestry and industry.
9.    Studies and Investigations. The program of studies envisaged under the project has not
been implemented as originally planned, largely due to resource constraints. TORs were
prepared for 15 studies, but only nine have been carried out -- including four major ones
(Development Options for five Ramsar coastal wetlands, a Feasibility Study of Chemu Lagoon,
Industrial Waste, and Algae Bloom on the Coast of the Western Region). The financial
requirements for the others exceeded the available resources and were therefore not carried out.
10.   Environmental Law. Legislation is under preparation to back up the EPA Act and the
Pesticide Law. EPA may need to link up more closely with the Ministry of Environment,
Science and Technology (MEST) to facilitate the efficient movement of this legislation through
the system.
i1.   EPA 's Strategic Vision. On September 23, EPA held a workshop and a round-table with
key stakeholders to discuss its Strategic Vision and its proposed new Human Resources
Development Plan. Issues discussed included: (i) the challenges in managing the land
environment -- forestry and agriculture; (ii) conserving freshwater and marine resources; (iii)
best practices in environmental management in the mining sector; (iv) managing the built
environment; (v) promoting clean manufacturing and minimizing hazardous waste; and (vi)
sustainable funding for environmental protection. The workshop was very successful, and the
final output from these discussions and the timetable for implementation of the Plan will form an
input into the NRMP.
12.   Human Resource Development (HID). EPA has carried out extensive training of its
staff throughout project period, cofinanced by DFID (UK). The establishment of EPA out of the
former EPC (Environmental Protection Council) necessitated a revision of its HRD plan. The
new HRD plan will be driven by EPA's Five-Year Strategic Plan currently being developed
under a twinning arrangement with Victoria (Australia) EPA. It will assess current skills and
identify skills needed for EPA to function as an enforcement rather than an advisory agency.
The strategic plan, which is about 80% completed, will generate sufficient information to begin



- 27 -                  APPENDIX 1
developing the HRD plan in November on a timetable designed to complete the draft plan by
December 1998.
B. Env,ironmental Information System Development (EISD)
13.  ],nvironmental Information System Development (EISD) forms an important aspect of
the GERMP. It involves the development of core databases for environmental resources
management in Ghana. The databases include topographic information (Survey Department -
SD), land use/land cover (Remote Sensing Applications Unit - RSAU), land ownership (Lands
Commission - LC), soil information and soil suitability (Soil Research Institute - SRI) and
meteorological information (Meteorological Services Department - MSD). Most of the data
layers are at an advanced stage of development, and many of them will be completed before the
end of the GERMP.
14.   Land Information Project Operation Committee (LIPOC). LIPOC is the forum where
all the IEISD agencies discuss and agree on technical issues and solve their administrative and
operational problems. It was established to coordinate the EISD efforts and supervise the
production of the data sets funded by the project, and EPA is the secretariat for LIPOC. LIPOC
has been highly effective in running the network, solving technical and administrative problems,
in addition to acting as a technical and scientific forum to address data compatibility issues.
LIPOC organized many technical sessions, and a number of these were national, regional and
international in nature.
15.   Seeking to establish links with initiatives in other agencies and to emphasize the need for
data harmonization, LIPOC organized four national workshops during the past four years at
which it became evident that as many as 22 organizations in Ghana were at various stages of
developing or using GIS and related technologies. A major outcome of these workshops was a
proposal to establish a coordination mechanism to ensure the harmonization of efforts to improve
the availability of geo-spatial information in Ghana and to provide a platform for resolving
technical problems that impede data exchange. Participants also recommended the establishment
of GIS within District Assemblies and Regional Coordinating Offices to facilitate the
decentralization process and to enhance development planning and decision making at the local
levels. Most of these recommendations have been accomplished under the GERMP; the others
will be carried over to the NRMP.
16.   National Framework for Geo-spatial Information Management (NAFGIM).  In
November 1997 EPA sponsored a workshop to discuss the organization and structure of a Geo-
spatial Information Framework for Ghana, clarify roles and responsibilities of the various
stakehcilders within the geo-spatial data production and user community, and formulate
operational mechanisms. Workshop participants agreed to establish a National Framework for
Geo-spatial Information Management (NAFGIM) to coordinate the production and exchange of
compatible geographically referenced data sets within Ghana's information community.8
NAFG:[M will deal with issues such as data production, standardization, access and exchange.
8  Information community refers to a number of agents (data providers, users, and intermediaries) who, at least part of the
time, share a common digital information language and common data feature definitions.



- 28 -                  APPENDIX 1
The overarching concerns are to: (i) lower information management costs by expanding technical
cooperation within the geo-spatial information community and by clarifying data custodianship
and operational responsibilities, and (ii) increase the use of geo-spatial infornation in
environmental management and development planning. EPA will take a lead role in getting the
National Geo-spatial Information Advisory Committee (NGIAC) formally constituted. NGIAC
would be the supervisory organ for NAFGIM, and has to be in place before the appointment of a
Coordinator. Once appointed, the Coordinator will prepare a detailed work program based on
the defined activities, areas and priorities which may be identified by the Stakeholder Forum. It
is expected that the development of the first version of the metadata catalog and of a Web site
will be accomplished by the end of the first year.
17.   Remote Sensing Applications Unit (RSA U). All the infrastructure and capital equipment
are in place. Work on the land/use land cover maps will be completed before the project closes:
ten map sheets have been plotted, and the remaining 25 will be completed by December. One
national and ten regional bulletins will be prepared by December; LIPOC will consider and
decide arrangements for printing and payment. On October 8, RSAU held its first Management
Board meeting, marking the beginning of the operational phase of RSAU. This is very timely,
since RSAU is expected to provide important support to NRMP on a contractual basis. In this
respect, RSAU has been asked to draft TORs for implementing the EISD components identified
under the NRMP, namely the development of a regional-level EIS and the update of the national-
level land use/land cover maps.
18.   Survey Department. The Survey Departmnent (SD) has completed production of the
digital topographic maps at scale 1/50,000, required as a basis for all natural resource and
environmental information development, and production of the 1/250,000 scale maps is nearing
completion. SD is now developing the procedures for color printing the thematic maps produced
by all LIPOC agencies. These include soil maps, land suitability maps, land use/land cover
maps, and land ownership maps. Work to strengthen the SD training center is at an advanced
stage regarding curriculum design, hiring and training of teachers, and acquiring the basic
equipment. There is concern, however, about the status of civil works (see para. 36).
19.  Soil Research Institute (SRI). Progress in soil mapping and developing land capability
maps is steady. SRI has almost completed (i) the digital soil association maps at scale
1/250,000; (ii) land suitability maps for 30 land utilization types (LUT) at scale 1/250,000; and
(iii) development of a DEM and slope maps. Land suitability maps for 10 major LUT at scale
1/1,000,000 will be produced once the maps for 30 LUT are finished.9 Additional research on
digital elevation modules is being developed to study soil erosion and land degradation, and data
to support such research have been obtained from MSD and SD. The digital soil unit in Accra is
now almost operational, but SRI management still considers it as exogenous to the Institute and
is yet to integrate it into the Institute's main work program. The mission discussed this issue
with SRI and suggested to tackle it in the broader context of developing a long-term operational
plan for SRI as a whole. Moving the unit to Kumasi, as is under consideration for 1999, would
facilitate its operational integration.
9 The capability to produce maps for 159 LUT has been created at SRI.



- 29 -                  APPENDIX 1
20.   Aleteorological Service Department (MSD). Following the completion, in December, of
the on-going data entering and digitization exercise, MSD will have finished the digitization of
all meteorological data dating back to 1900. It will then have developed a good system and a
strong and well-managed and trained section to undertake the work ahead.
21.   Lands Commission (LC). Work to compile the information on stool and family lands
has been complete for five Regions (Greater-Accra, Ashanti, Western, Eastern, and Northern),
and is expected to be completed for four more by December. The exception is Volta Region,
where land ownership arrangements are different and for which a different recording format is
required.
22.   Environmental Quality Monitoring. Environmental quality monitoring is now fully
operational. All equipment for air and water quality monitoring has been procured and staff
training completed. Data collection and basic analysis are done in the regions, while more
detailed analyses are conducted at EPA HQ and by the Water Research Institute and Standards
Board. MSD is required to provide meteorological data for monitoring, but is unable to do so for
lack of requisite capacity. The October 1997 mission recommended to strengthen MSD through
training and equipment support, but the bottlenecks have not yet been overcome.
C Land and Water Management Pilot (LWMP)
23.   The Land and Water Management Pilot (LWMP) component of the project is cofinanced
by DANIDA.10 Starting later than the main project and now in its fourth year of operation, it
has made good progress.  Capacity building continues to receive major attention.  The
participatory approach has now been fully accepted by interested communities, from problem
identification to planning strategies and to mapping out and implementing programs to address
local problems. With guidance from MOFA staff, soil fertility decline has been identified by
farrners as the most serious problem affecting their productivity. It is well recognized by farmers
that soil fertility decline is the result of land degradation caused by soil erosion, decreasing
length of the traditional fallow period, population pressures (human and animal) and inability to
afford external inputs such as mineral fertilizers.
24.   The extent of community acceptance and project impact appears to be highest in the
savanna agro-ecologies where the need for judicious management of the natural resource base is
today most felt. Project activities are on-going in 42 communities, located in all ten Regions and
in 23 different districts. Activities are at different stages of implementation, some having started
only during 1998. While 34 communities have introduced field practices, eight are at the stage
of physical planning and information mobilization and are only beginning to prepare their
Village Land Development Plans (VLDPs). Original plans called for 68 communities to be
covered over the 5-year period, but this is unlikely to be achieved by December 1999. It will be
advisable to consolidate activities in the communities already participating in the program.
10 DANIDA provided its own consultants, Messrs. N. Kotey and C. Quansah, to participate in this part of the mission, and
they have submitted a separate report to DANIDA.



- 30 -                  APPENDIX I
25.   The communities visited are full of enthusiasm and have cooperated with project staff in
all aspects of implementation. The current strategy of targeting individual communities (i.e.,
villages) does not, however, appear to be cost-effective and seems to have very limited impact,
since the non-adoption of basic land conservation measures by one community can have
devastating effects on the neighboring ones (e.g., bush fires, sheet erosion, etc.). The mission
therefore recommends the adoption of the watershed (instead of the village) as the unit of
operation, working with the several villages that occupy a particular catchment and ensure that
all communities within the catchment area develop and implement their Village Land
Development Plans (VLDPs) concurrently. This will require modifying current institutional
arrangements where a team of two based at the regional office visits one village at a time. Two
options for consideration are: (i) broadening the skill range of the teams to include a sociologist
based at the regional level who will assist communities identified within the watershed to
develop Village Land Development Plans (VLDPs), with support for implementation of the
plans then being the responsibility of agricultural extension agents and subject matter specialists;
or (ii) decentralizing the teams to the districts, backstopped by regional subject matter specialist,
with each district responsible for ensuring that all communities identified within the catchment
area develop and implement their VLDPs.
26.   Technology Identification. Soil fertility management should receive high priority, in
addition to soil conservation, particularly in the savanna areas. Crop yield increases will serve as
an important instrument to motivate farm households to make more sustainable investments in
land improvement. Minimizing soil erosion in ways that are compatible with small-scale
farmers' food production goals is a primary sustainability imperative. It is important, therefore,
to give high priority to the identification of indigenous technologies for land improvement. The
mission wishes to underscore the importance of regular consultations with relevant researchers
and recommends prioritization of technologies for demonstrations in the participating
communities.
27.   Technology Adoption. Soil conservation technologies such as stone lining or tied ridging
and improved agronomic practices such as mixed cropping and optimizing planting density are
among the practices adopted by farmers. Soil fertility maintenance with pen manures is a well
known practice. The increasing use of draft animals has facilitated a more systematic application
of pen manures to the fields, a trend that should be actively encouraged. Other practices
introduced, such as cover crops (e.g., Mucuna), are gaining ground in the pilot areas, especially
in the North. Greater emphasis should be given, however, to adaptive trials and demonstrations
on soil management, particularly fertility improvements and soil conservation, and to techniques
aimed at water conservation.
28.   Capacity Building. The project is innovative in its approach and implementation, and
capacity building within MOFA for effective implementation at various levels is therefore one of
the main objectives of this pilot phase. A well equipped and functioning Land and Water
Management Unit has been established within MOFA. To date, 151 MOFA field staff have
received training, and eight study tours have been organized for 67 senior staff in East and West
African countries to become acquainted with land and water management programs in these
countries. The land and water management course content and syllabus need revision and
different emphasis at various levels. In particular, a well structured and detailed program on soil



- 31 -                 APPENDIX 1
fertility management should be included in the syllabus. The mission recommends that the six
week course be split into two separate courses of four and two weeks' duration respectively; the
four-week course should be for field staff (extension agents) and the two-week course for
supervisory staff.
29.  In the past two years, 480 tractor drivers/operators, bullock owners/operators and
agricultural extension agents have received training in appropriate tillage and land preparation
methods and in handling machinery and draft animals. Plans for further regional training courses
have been completed.
30.   Farmer training also receives attention at the community level. Inter-community visits by
farmers is an important approach to technology adoption. The mission recommends greater use
of this approach in promoting technology dissemination to farmers.
31.   Collaboration  with  Agricultural Engineering  Services Department (AESD).
Appropriate methods of land development and tillage operations are vital to minimize land
degradation, and there is a growing need for more intensive training of tractor owners and
operators. The recent formation of a Tractor Operators' Association is a move in the right
direction to maintain the much needed discipline in land preparation and tillage practices.
Promotion of animal draught power is progressing nationwide through training courses
suppoirted by LWMP. The donkey is now increasingly used for ploughing in LWMP areas in the
northern savannas. The good collaboration between LWMP and AESD continues to be
strengthened through increased training activities of tractor and bullock plough operators
nationwide. NGOs are actively involved in the education of farmers on the use of animal
draught power. Close collaboration between LWMP and AESD and the NGOs should be
maintained to develop effective farners' outreach programs.  The mission recommends
continued active support of AESD training courses, as this provides effective educational and
extenrsion programs on appropriate land development, thereby minimizing land degradation in
the fanning areas.
32.   Linkages with Research Institutions.  Although some informal links exist with
individual resource persons at universities and research institutions, one of the weaknesses of the
project is the absence of a strong working relationship with the research system. Improved
technology adoption to minimize land degradation, increase soil fertility and raise crop yields
will be difficult to achieve without practical demonstrations. The mission strongly recommends
that demonstrations and adaptive trials on promising technologies be given utmost attention.
33.   Land Management Fund. The project earmarked US$4,000 for each community to be
utilized for initiating project activities by the communities. There appear to be difficulties in the
operation of the fund due to poor communication between MOFA staff and the beneficiaries and
lack of effective monitoring. The mission recommends that the funds for the communities be
deposited and operated from the districts, with the District Director of Agriculture (DDA) and
two executive members of the community associations as signatories. The DDA should submit
quarterly returns to the Regional Director of Agriculture who should also audit the accounts at
six-mnLonthly intervals.



- 32 -                  APPENDIX 1
34.   Lessons Learned. The LWM pilots were not designed on an integrated area catchment
management basis (as is planned for the savanna resources management component of the
forthcoming NRMP), but on a community basis. There are, however, important lessons from the
pilot activities that can provide guidance for the development of the savanna resource
management component of NRMP:
(i) Criteria have to be established for the selection of participating communities. In
particular, the principle of farmer commitment to sustain the practices should be
reinforced.
(ii) Appropriate balance should be established between community-supported group
activities as distinct from individual activities for the direct benefit of the participants.
(iii)Regular inter-community visits are useful in promoting farmer adoption of proven,
improved practices. Such communications are also important in developing programs
that may involve the participation of several communities -- e.g., bush fire control.
(iv)Community participation in the preparation and execution of village land
development plans is crucial. Priority setting within the community could then be
easily achieved in the implementation of the plans.
(v) Financial or other incentive support to village land development and management
plans consistent with government policies and programs should make adequate
provisions for accounting of their management.
(vi)The monitoring process should include full participation of the communities.
35.   Future Support DANIDA support for this project activity is scheduled to continue
throughout 1999, while support from IDA through the GERMP will end when Credit 2426 closes
on December 31, 1998. The Savanna Resources Management component of the Natural
Resources Management Project (NRMP) will only cover the three northern Regions. Given the
critical nature of continuing the activities funded by IDA, it was agreed that provisions would be
made to cover these essential activities in the work program of the IDA-supported National
Agricultural Extension Project. District Directors of Agriculture in the concerned districts would
therefore need to plan and budget for the activities under the LWM Pilot in their respective
districts.
D. Civil Works and Equipment
36.   Survey Department Classrooms & Laboratory. After receiving IDA's "no objection" for
the award of contract for the construction of classrooms and laboratory in December 1997, the
Survey Department decided to change the site for these works. The contract was finally signed
in March 1998 for completion within six months, and an invoice from the contractor for the
payment of mobilization advance was forwarded to EPA in June 1998. The mission pointed out
that the project would not be able to pay for works not completed by the date of project closing.



- 33 -                  APPENDIX 1
37.   Year 2000 (Y2K) Computer Problem. The Bank sent a letter to EPA in December 1997
urging all implementing agencies under the project to take proactive measures to address the
Y2K problem. The mission requested EPA to provide a status report on follow-up action taken
to date.. Measures proposed by the Bank include taking an inventory of IT hardware and
software that may be affected by the problem, identification of vendors and consultants
requesting information regarding Y2K compatibility, and ensuring that future procurement meets
requirements for Y2K compatibility. The mission was informed that a proposal has been
received from the local agents of Dell computers offering to replace all of EPA's Dell PCs which
are not Y2K compatible.
E. Financial Management
38.   Disbursements. Disbursements as of September 25, 1998, total SDR 11.4 million
(US$16.4 million), leaving SDR 1.2 million (US$1.7 million) undisbursed three months before
project closing. Unless some activities currently scheduled are canceled or delayed, activities
and procurement planned by the implementing agencies for the remaining three months will
likely result in full utilization of the credit when it closes on December 31, 1998.
39.   Accounting. The accounts unit at EPA, the lead implementing agency, has been re-
organized on functional lines, with some technical assistance from the project's auditors. No
individual staff now handles a complete cycle of transactions, as breaks have been introduced to
strengthen the internal control environment.  All accounts staff now have updated job
descriptions and clear reporting responsibilities. The SOEs are operated in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Documents supporting procurements and disbursements are properly filed.
40.   System Computerizafion. Computerization of the project accounts is nearing completion.
Softwaare has been customized to meet EPA (and project) reporting requirements, and details on
the type of accounts and format of reports required by management to monitor EPA (and project)
activities have been finalized and agreed upon. A simplified user manual has been prepared, and
the system has been successfully tested with a first set of data (covering January and February
1997). EPA now needs to input the remaining data for 1997 to allow testing with an entire
year's data and an evaluation and, if needed, final adjustment of the system before it is activated
for "live" operation.
41.   Audits. The audit report and the management letter of the auditors were submitted before
the end of the of June 1998, ahead of schedule, and IDA's review did not identify any issues to
be addlressed. The absence of a fixed assets register (FAR), the subject of the auditors' comment
on the 1996 audited accounts, has now been rectified. FARs for the various implementing
agencies of the project have also been prepared, and copies will be made available to them. To
ensure timely submission of reports of audited accounts for 1998, the mission recommends to
start thle auditing process immediately.
42. Counterpart Funding and Post-Project Sustainabiity. The counterpart situation for
1998 remains extremely unsatisfactory. By the end of September, the project had not yet
received any counterpart funding from its approved budget provision of Cedi 1.8 billion and has,
thus, b,een unable to effect full payments for goods and supplies which require counterpart funds.



- 34 -                  APPENDIX 1
As the table below shows, this represents a dramatic deterioration even from the unsatisfactory
situation faced in 1996 and 1997. Unless this constraint is quickly and effectively addressed, the
project will be indebted to several suppliers after the closing date. The project's history of
inadequate counterpart funding also suggests a high probability of inadequate future funding for
the agencies and institutions concerned, implying a significant threat to the future sustainability
of the capacities created and of the important activities being carried out by these agencies and
institutions.
GERMP Counterpart Funding, 1993 - 1998
Budget    Budget    Amount   Released    Released
Requested  Approved   Released        as          as
Year      (million    (million    (million    % of        % of
Cedi)      Cedi)       Cedi)    Approved   Requested
1993        55          55        55.0       100.0%      100.0%
1994       633         633       311.5        49.2%       49.2%
1995       750         750       467.4        62.5%       62.5%
1996     3,500       2,400       503.2        30.9%       14.4%
1997     2,500       1,700       401.0        23.6%       16.0%
1998 /a   1,800      1,800         0.0         0.0%        0.0%
/a As of September 30, 1998.
III. Project Closing
43.   Project Closing and Initiation of ICR Process. IDA sent a letter to EPA on September
14, 1998, advising of the scheduled project closing on December 31, 1998, and providing the
necessary infornation concerning project closing and the preparation of the Borrower's
implementation evaluation report and IDA's implementation completion report. The mission
discussed the preparation of the ICR and provided the various implementing agencies with
examples of the tables and text that need to be prepared by the Borrower. LOAAF has begun to
recover the SA.
Accra
October 13, 1998
Dr. Peter C. Acquah                    G6tz Schreiber
Executive Director                     Team Leader
Environmental Protection Agency               World Bank
Government of Ghana



- 35 -                    APPENDIX 2
GHANA
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT (GERMP)
(Cr. 2426-GH)
MID-TERM REVIEW REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.    Project Background Severe droughts in Ghana during the late 1970s and early 1980s, coupled
with the extensive bushfires of 1983/84, heightened public awareness of environmental issues and led the
govemrnment to intensify its efforts to establish environmental policies. Initial work on a National
Conservation Strategy, led to the establishment of the Environmental Protection Council (EPC) now the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), being charged with preparing a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP). The World Bank provided assistance to the EPC during the preparation of the NEAP
through detailed discussions and limited amount of consultant help.
2.    A Bank mission in October 1990 assisted with the completion of the final draft of the NEAP and
discussed ways in which further assistance could be provided for the implementation of the plan. It was
agreed that the Bank funding could be focused on institutional support to the EPC, to enable it to fulfill its
role as defined in the NEAP, on the introduction of improved land management practices, to reduce land
degradation which was identified in the NEAP as the most important environmental problem facing the
country; and on measures to improve the management of areas of importance for the conservation of
biodiversity, particularly in the coastal wetlands. The core of the project is the development of an
effective system for the management of environmental resources in Ghana, that will involve communities
as well as government institutions in the planning, implementation and monitoring of the sustainable use
of environmental resources.
3.    The Ghana Environmental Resources Management Project (GERMP) was appraised in March
1992, and the Credit was signed in December 1992 negotiated in, and became effective in March 1993. A
launching workshop was held in June 1993, but because of lack of effective leadership at the EPC (and its
conversion to an agency (EPA] at about that time), and delays in securing technical assistance for the
Ghana Wildlife Department (GWD), implementation did not effectively start until early 1994. Because of
the delayed decision to combine the Land and Water Management Unit (LWMU) and the Agro-Forestry
Unit (AFU) in the Crop Services Department (CSD) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA),
DANIDA technical assistance did not commence until November 1994. For these reasons, it was decided
to delay the Mid-Term Review until early 1996, later postponed to October 1996 at DANIDA request.
The project is currently due to close on December 31, 1997.
4.    The primary objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of the government and people of
Ghana to manage the country's environmental resources. The project focuses on: (i) improving resource
management and monitoring and capability of the EPA; (ii) improving the availability of topographic and
land use/suitability information, meteorological and environmental quality data; and (iii) assisting the
environmental resource users to invest in the sustainable use of the resources through adoption of
improved practices. The project has three main components: (a) development of an Environmental
Resource Management System; (b) land resources management; and (c) Coastal Wetlands Management.



- 36 -                           APPENDIX 2
Total project cost is US $3 5.9 million of which IDA funding is US $18.1 million with a
complementary GEF funding of US $ 7.2. Two co-financiers, DANIDA and ODA are providing US
$4.3 and US $ 0.9 respectively, while Ghana Government contribution is US $5.4.
5.   The MTR mission reviewed the overall performance of the project and addressed three basic
issues of: (i) whether the original development objectives of the project were still relevant and
appropriate; (ii) what project impact has been achieved to date, and if the project, as it is designed and
implemented produced the desired development impact; and (iii) changes needed, if any, in project
design/implementation arraignments. The mission reviewed progress of implementation on basis of
project input/output and indicators, summarized in Annex 1. Specifically, the mission assessed the
progress made with: (i) environmental resource management including, strengthening of the EPAITS,
project management and administration, human resources development, and environmental education,
status of studies; (ii) environmental information systems (EIS), including development of integrated
digitized data base, adequacy of its institutional arrangements for its development, performance of the
Land Information Project Operations Coordinating Committee (LIPOC); and (iii) land and water
management component: assessing achievements with village land development pilots and comrnunity
participation; performance of the LWMU of MOFA; and integration and coordination of activities
with other line agencies within MOFA. The team also assessed progress with procurement and
disbursement. The GEF funded Coastal Wetlands Management component was reviewed under a
separate terms of reference.
6.  The MTR team' carried out the review in conjunction with DANIDA on the EIS and LWM, and
with ODA on the institutional strengthening of EPA aspects of the project. The team held discussions
with LIPOC, officials of the EPA, MOFA, MEST and all implementing agencies. The team discussed
its findings at a series of wrap-up meetings chaired by Dr. Peter Acquah, Executive Director of the
EPA with all implementing agencies.
H. OVERALL PROJECT PROGRESS
7.  Given Ghana's ever decreasing forest areas outside the designated reserves, associated with the
drive to increase agricultural production, and a rapidly expanding mining sector, the primary objective
of the project to strengthen the capacity of government and the people to manage environmental
resources is perhaps ever more relevant today than it was when work was started on this project
seven years ago.
8.  Although the Credit became effective in December 1993, it was not until late 1994 that project
implementation commenced in earnest. Since then, implementation progress has been mixed. In
terms of development of an Environmental Resource Management system, significant strengthening of
EPA has taken place: intersectoral networks have been established; environmental impact assessment
capacity has been enhanced; environmental quality monitoring has been established; an environmental
information system has been formalised; and EPA's capacity in both environmental law and
environmental economics has been enhanced.
lThe review teams comprised Messrs R. S. Epworth (TTL), Hassan Hassan (Consultant), C. Annor-Frempong and L.
Campbell - World Bank; Messrs Olesen and Kjolsen - DANIDA; and Messrs West and Colley - ODA; and GOG
officials.



- 37 -                            APPENDIX 2
In addition, in conjunction with other stakeholders, a number of specific environmental problems have
been identified, and TORs prepared for studies to address these issues.
9.  Institutionally, EPA is making good progress, but it sill has a long way to go. Although
understaffed, EPA is a well managed organization with motivated staff, and is well regarded both
within the country and within the Region. It does however realise that as an institution, it is at the
crossroads, and if it is to grow in function and ability, it requires a well defined strategic vision,
backed by the necessary management and trained staff. Developing this strategy and associated
human resource development must now be EPA's prime institutional goal - along with operational
plants to strengthen its regional presence and liaison with district assemblies, in line with the
governments decentralization program.
10. Significant progress has also been made in development of the Environmental Information
System (EIS), involving the functional expansion of a number of existing agencies (Survey
Departmrient; Meteorological Services Department; Soils Research Institute; and the Lands
Commission) and the establishment of a new institute, the Remote Sensing Applications Unit within
the University of Legon. In all cases this has involved substantial upgrading of technical equipment
and accompanying staff skills. Despite the fact that five separate agencies are involved who have to
work irn an interrelated manner, very good progress has been made. This is due partly to the
coordination of EPA, through the Land Information Project Operations Coordinating Committee, and
partly through the dedication and professionalism of the staff in each of the agencies. Based on
present performance, project targets for developing a digitalised EIS will be met (albeit with some
practical modifications agreed during the implementation phase). The challenge to come is how to
manage the process in the post project period - keeping staff motivated and committed and equipment
functional, when project funding ceases. And ever more important, is how to manage the information
being generated so as to ensure an increasingly wider range of potential users who are able to gain
access and use it in the broader development planning process.
11.  The progress being made with the land and water management component is more difficult to
see, and the likely development impact more difficult to judge at this stage. However, it must be
realisecd that this is a pilot program testing out new approaches to sustainable land management, and
at the time of this mid-term review, less than two years of at least a five year program have passed.
12.  On thEe positive side, the LWM Unit has been established firmly within DCS, and is operating
extensively in the field, with a strong sense of community participation; and extension staff training
has been undertaken, within Ghana and outside. But even at this early stage, it is apparent that
improvements are needed in three crucial areas. First, staffing of the LWM Unit needs to be
strengthened, access to appropriate subject matter specialists improved, and mainstreaming of the
pilot activities into day to day extension service operations hastened. Second, more innovation may
be needed in the approach to developing community involvement - reflecting differing socio-cultural
circumstances across the country. Third, the range of field technologies being tried needs to be
broadened to focus more on low maintenance practices, that are inherently more sustainable. The
project needs to address all these issues over the coming months, if it is going to be a successful pilot
operat:ion, and stimulate the development impact expected of it.
13.  It is apparent from the progress to date that continuing support for most project activities (even
those performing well) will be needed for a period of time extending past the current Credit Closing
Date of December 1997. Given the current disbursement figures, and future work programs, it is also
clear that funds will not be exhausted by that date.



- 38 -                          APPENDIX 2
It is therefore anticipated that at an appropriate time, a request will be made by GoG to IDA to
extend the project by one year. Based on present performance of the project - the way it is being well
managed, and the anticipated positive development impact - this request should be favourably
received.
IH. DEVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
(A)   Environmental Management Development
Support to EPA/TS.
14.  As the lead agency, EPA's initial support to project implementation was rather weak due to the
delay in filling the position of the (then EPC) Executive Director. Following the appointment of the
Executive Director and the recruitment of additional staff, EPA's management and monitoring
support to the project has progressed satisfactorily, particularly in the past year when the agency
appointed a senior officer to coordinate activities of project agencies, on full-time basis.
15.  Compared to its former status as a Council, EPA is now an effective environmental
management Agency, headed by an Executive Director, and staffed by well motivated personnel.
Although significant staff vacancies still exist, EPA's transformation into an agency has broadened its
functions and given it a legal authority (by EPA Law, Act 490) to deal more authoritatively with
environmental issues.
16.  EPA has began to strengthen its regional offices with improved staffing and logistics support.
When this is achieved EPA will be better placed to support environmental issues at the local level. To
be able to provide a credible assistance at the local level, there is a need to further strengthen regional
offices, and clearly define their role in the emerging situation of decentralized local level
administration.
17.  Intersectoral Network. For the purposes of effective coordination at the project level, EPA has
set up and staffed a range of inter-sectoral networks on: Built Environment; Natural Resources,
Mining and Industry, and Environmental Education.
Of its own initiative, EPA has formed an additional network on compliance Regional Offices
Enforcement, to reflect its new role as an agency. A wide range of governmental agencies are
represented on these Networks, which meet at least four times a year.
For example, 17 different government agencies participate on the Compliance Enforcement Network
to discuss and agree approaches towards licensing, prosecution, legal sanctions and enforcement of
environmental legislation. * In addition, EPA has established several Project Operating Committees
(including Forestry, Ozone, Climate Change and State of the Environment Report) which involve
representation of NGOs as well as government agencies. EPA has therefore developed an effective
framework for coordination of NEAP objectives with other government agencies and NGOs, although
the limited staff resources allocated to the Inter-sectoral Network Division may constrain the impact.
This initiative EPA reports success in attracting high level participation in these networks and
committees, and considers that these meetings have increased the environmental awareness of other
government agencies, which has led to the development of some inter-sectoral initiatives (most
notably the sanitation Policy and the Pesticides Control and management Bill.



- 39 -                            APPENDIX 2
18.  Environmental Impact Assessment (EL4). The capacity of EPA to provide EIA services is
improving. The agency has developed EIA procedures and developed guidelines for mining and
preparing guidelines for forestry and manufacturing sectors. The mandatory requirement to prepare
EIAs for development projects, coupled with limited local capacity to undertake EIAs, is putting
increasing demand on EPA. In 1996, EPA received over 200 screening applications; and on the
average, three EIA statements in a month. Wisely, EPA has established an EIA system which
involves other government institutions in the decision-making and this system has enabled applications
to be processed within defined time schedules. It has also run workshops for local consultants on EIA
procedures and plans more in the future . This area requires further support by EPA in the future.
19. Environmental Law. EPA has established a unit of three lawyers, responsible for drafting and
implemerntation of environmental laws; and support staff have received training. Since EPA has been
given cornpliance and enforcement responsibilities in addition to being a regulatory body, the
environmental law unit would need to be strengthened to meet these responsibilities effectively. The
unit has prepared a draft Pesticide Control and Management Bill which is to be passed as law soon,
plus the Ozone Layer Protection Bill; Draft EIA Regulations; Draft Regulations for Industrial
Chemica!Ls; and is developing an environmental protection law. ODA has assisted the University of
Ghana tc, establish a component course in Environmental Law, and demand by students for places is
high.
20.  Entvironmental Information. EPA has established an environmental data system, including a
computerized bibliographic data base termed, Historical Data on the Environment (HIDEN). This,
together with scientific publications, have improved EPA's library facilities, leading to a growing
demand for environmental information from external agencies. The library facilities, though
improved, are far from adequate and would need to be improved, if it is to provide efficient service to
the publiic. Collaboration with University of Ghana, who are significant users of this resources may be
a possibility, and should be investigated.
21. Environmental Quality Monitoring. The Environmental Quality Department has established
a nationwide air and water quality monitoring program. The work on water quality is more advanced,
and has reached the stage where collection of water quality data is almost complete. However, the
impact of this monitoring is limited to date as the results are yet to be linked to the control of point of
source pollution, or to the control of new developments in catchment areas. Although EPA has
prepared ambient air and noise guidelines, air quality monitoring has been delayed by late
procurement of equipment. In monitoring water quality, EPA plans to do the field analysis of data
and assign the chemical analysis to the Water Resources Research Institute (WRRI) and the Institute
of Aquatic Biology (IAB). While EPA, assumes that the Meteorological Services Department
(MSD) is the obvious collaborator in air monitoring, it doubts MSD's capacity to undertake this
function. The direct implementation of monitoring activities by EPA, such as analyzing samples, is of
concern since such activities are better delegated to institutions with greater capacity and expertise.
There is a need for EPA to play a facilitating role rather than engaging directly in technical work. As
EPA's prestige rises with the public, so will be public demand for environmental quality control, and
this is likely to outweigh EPA's capacity to respond. The agency would do well to clearly define it
role and follow a guideline of set priorities.



APPENDIX 2
22.  Environmental Economics. EPA has created an Environmental Economics Unit. The
original plan to strengthen EPA's capacity in environmental economics by way of collaborative
research programs in Environmental Economics at the University of Ghana, did not materialize. An
alternative proposal was developed which involved a series of high level workshops, side by side with
short-term overseas training of staff. One workshop was successfully organized but the overseas
training has not taken place yet, although one officer is studying for an MSc degree. As
environmental economic issues, particularly the establishment of pollution and resource degradation
costs, are becoming increasingly important in Ghana, there is a need to strengthen EPA's capacity for
valuing environmental assets; and to understand better the economic issues of the environment at
large.
23.  Studies and Investigations. Only limited progress has been made on studies and investigations
planned under the project. To date only two studies have been undertaken: industrial wastes; and
investigations into algal bloom in the marine areas shared with Cote d'Ivoire. A major problem
identified was how to identify priority areas to be studied and then preparing precise TOR.
Eventually, a consultant from NRI was engaged to discuss problem areas with a range of
stakeholders, prioritize the problems, and prepare specific TORs. This exercise has been completed,
and sixteen study TORs prepared. Tenders for the first study (Reclamation of Chemie 11 Lagoon) are
now being called.
Human Resource Development
25.  The Human Resources Development was the focus of the ODA funding under the project,
involving a mix of training, including management and administration, post-graduate training, short
courses, practical training, seminars and workshops. In executing this program, EPA was expected to
build linkages with selected overseas institutions. Some linkages have been established but these are
still tenuous. Significant training of both senior and junior staff management and support services, has
taken place, as shown in Annex 1. To further support human resource development, the
Administration Division, now headed by a Deputy Director, was restructured to include a HRD
Department, although this is currently staffed by only one junior officer. EPA has established
employment conditions and scheme of service and started to develop an Operational Manual. A HRD
was produced for the EPC by local consultants. This plan set out the areas in which the staff of EPC
could benefit from various types of training. This plan has been overtaken by the change in status and
expanded functions of EPA, and it is recognized that a new BRD plan is now needed based on a
proper training needs assessment. This should take into account: the skills requirement as it currently
stands in EPA, and as it is likely to develop in response to future demands; and the skills available to
EPA as it is currently constituted.
It was agreed that EPA should engage consultants to help develop a five-year strategy for EPA, and
based on this strategy, prepare a HRD plan. This should be done as a matter of urgency.
Environmental Education
26e  Environmental education activities started off with the launching of the Environmental
Education Strategy in 1994. Since then, EPA has developed a specific plan to implement this
strategy, incorporating broad public sensitization programs and strengthening its capacity at the
district level to prepare environmental action plans. A school curricular audit completed in 1995, and
this will be followed by the development of a teaching manual, which when adopted, would ensure the
integration of environmental studies in school curricular.



- 41 -                          APPENDIX 2
EPA has also established partnerships with various agencies including, the media, religious bodies and
security agencies, to ensure a wider audience is reached with it's environmental message. Future
outreach programs would include training of trainers from various NGOs and other organizations to
improve their skills.
(B)   Environmental Information System Development (EISD)
27.  I'he project supports the development of an environmental information system involving the
improved collection and processing of selected data not already collected by sectoral agencies, or that
are not readily available. EPA and Land Information Project Operations Committee (LIPOC) have
been very active and instrumental in leading the work of this activity. The co-operation provided by
all the rmembers of LIPOC has been very strong.
28.  One of the main objective of GERMP is to put in place the institutional and technical
capabilities required for effective environmental management and monitoring. To this end, EPA needs
to acquire the capacity and facilities to fully utilize the data and information being generated and
compiled by the EISD agencies. To do this, the ISS Department should establish facilities that allow
EPA's professional staff and managers access to view and query the data and information in a user-
friendly environment. EISD agencies have now acquired highly sophisticated hardware (workstations)
and software (Arc/Info) to collect, manipulate, analyze and manage the environmental data each in its
own sector. In addition, RSAU and SRI, in particular, have now the capacity to extract information
througlh analyzing, synthesizing various data layers and presenting them in a user friendly formats.
EPA through the ISS Department should be capable to link up with RSAU to utilize the value-added
information and make it available to EPA's professionals through appropriate software.
29.  A draft outline of a handbook on Geo-spatial Information Framework (GIF), including a
proposed organizational set-up for permanent co-operation and data exchange between EISD and
other agencies and a first identification of issues to be addressed with respect to common data
structures and standards was produced in 1995. Finalizing and publishing this handbook is important
and this should be followed by drafting and presenting for government approval a digital data
access/'release/exchange policy including copyrights and royalties.
30.  EPA efforts in EIA, SOE reporting, advice to Government and district assemblies would be
greatly enhanced through the incorporation of the data produced through EISD in the analysis. The
forthcoming pilot area workshop should have one of its objectives providing guidance on how this
data generated under EISD could be internalized in EPA's regular operations. Based on the
recommendations of the workshop, Information Support Service (ISS) of EPA should prepare a
work plan to implement such internalization.
31.  Topographic Information. In general, more than 70% of the work of this component under
the Survey Department (SD) has been completed. In particular, the digital and lithographic mapping
units, have now been completely changed into efficient modern units comparable to any similar
department in any worldwide. Although the renovation and furnishing of the digital mapping unit has
been completed and the unit is now fully operational, and the restoration of the lithographic mapping
unit and the installation of its equipment is completed, the repair of the survey school is yet to
commence. After long delays, the plans and bills of quantities have just been submitted to EPA and
IDA for approval. Purchase, installation and commissioning of the digital mapping equipment and the
photo-lithographic laboratory equipment and vehicles is completed.



- 42 -                           APPENDIX 2
The draft bidding document for the purchase of field and office equipment for the survey school has
finally been completed and sent to IDA for clearance.
32.  The contract with Terra Surveys is in an advanced state of implementation. The digital
mapping unit and the litho-printing unit are now operated by staff from the Department with minimal
supervision from the contractor's lead technical assistant in advanced digital mapping. Training in
photo-lithography is completed. All other technical assistants from Terra Surveys have now departed
after their assignments have now been completed. Regarding the conversion of digital data, 90% of
the work has been completed at scale 1/50000; and 70% of the quality control and checking has been
done. This whole exercise at this scale is expected to be finished before the end of the year. The
generalization to scale 1/250000 is yet to be started. The variation of the original contact and the
TOR for this exercise has been sent to IDA for clearance. Once cleared by IDA and the contract
signed, the work generation and preparation of a digital topographic data base of scale 1:250,000 will
start. This database will be shared with other agencies to be the basis of their thematic database.
33.  Post graduate training has been provided to nine members of the Survey Department in digital
cartography. One more staff member is expected to depart shortly to complete the academic training
for the Department. With regard to practical and on the job training, 14 staff members benefited from
practical training in Canada with Terra Surveys; and 8 more staff members who will later be attached
to the survey school will proceed shortly to undergo short-term practical training. All these staff
members, plus many others in digital mapping and photolithography have benefited from on-the- job
training. Some of these are now providing training to their colleagues under the supervision of the
lead technical assistant from Terra Surveys. Senior members from the Department were able to
attend workshops and seminars to interact with their regional and international colleagues.
34.  The original data exchange and sale policy for the Department was designed for paper and
analogue data, the only product the Department used to produce. Now that a new digital product is
available for sale, the Department has produced a new purchase form together with instructions for
prospective buyers. Although the topographic maps are all becoming digital, yet they are still based
on the old paper maps which were based on imperial system, departing from the situation in most
countries which are converting their maps into metric.
35.  Present Land Use Unlike the other participating EISD agencies, Remote Sensing
Applications Unit, (RSAU) did not exist before the launching of GERMP. In its short life, RSAU has
developed into a fully operational, highly technical and well managed functional remote sensing and
GIS application unit.
36.  In addition to producing the digital and paper copy of the current land use/land cover maps
covering all the country (which is now only awaiting field validation for finalization), RSAU now had
capabilities to provide services in processing and analyzing spatial environmental information on
contractual basis to Ghanaian and foreign institutions interested in remote sensing and GIS
applications.
37. The first phase of RSAU development which came to an end in December 1995 included the
recruitment of the core staff (now stands at 15 including the Director), the construction of offices and
laboratories, the acquisition and installation of equipment, the development of the land use
classification system and the recruitment and training of staff for the field work. The second phase is
now at an advanced state of development. The preparation of the digital land use maps is proceeding
well.



- 43 -                           APPENDIX 2
The progress is now hindered by the lack of counterpart funding necessary to conduct field work.
The land use/land cover database and land use bulletins format have been designed and the work in
the pilot area has been completed.
38.  In addition, RSAU was able to take the first steps in its long-term sustainability path.
While concentrating on the main task (developing the land use maps), RSAU was able to attract and
implement a number of contracts including some supporting other World Bank projects. One area
where RBSAU could be indispensable to many agencies, is by trying to become the qualified provider
of the irnterface between data providers and information users, particularly decision-makers.
39.  Part of RSAU's approach to the development of long-term sustainability plan includes
reviewing its management and operational structure and procedures, costing mechanism, staff
appraisal procedures and business plan. While continuing to develop their long-term sustainability
plans, RSAU should be more proactive in pursuing contractual work, eliminating bureaucratic
expenditure and working in business/private sector environment. Through the GERMP, steps are
now being taken to complete the infrastructure and purchase the additional equipment needed for a
fully operational facility.
40.  A point of major concern for the mission is the institutional future and the future of the staff at
RSAU. Currently, none of the staff is in permanent position, with the exclusion of the director, who
holds an university position. In 1995 the director retired from his university position, but was able to
stay on RSAU on a project contract until the project ends. None of the RSAU staff has any tenure
after the termination of the IDA Credit and GoG project funding, which terminates by end of 1997.
By that time, all of the skilled personnel, and thus the bulk of the capacity and capabilities built up
may have to seek employment elsewhere, unless the present discussion regarding sustainability and
institutional arrangement is urgently pursued and arrangement is found whereby the RSAU staff can
be maintained and supported in a functioning unit with help from DANIDA, RSAU is to develop a
business plan - This is should form the basis of discussions between RSAU and University of Ghana as
to the long term role and function of RSAU within the university institution.
41.  Land Ownership. The computer/GIS equipment was received and all equipment is now
installed at Lands Commission (LC). The DANIDA TA has been rearranged to give additional GIS
training to LC and has started to provide in-service GIS training in order to brush up the training
received at the start of the project, and to strengthen and speed up the digitization of ownership
boundaries. This work is now on course; and the work on the pilot area is now completed including
all ownership categories. The LC has completed data collection on three ownership categories
nation-wide: state, vested and concession lands for all ten regions.
The data is now ready for digitization. Regarding data on StooVSkin and family lands, a large amount
on data collection, (8 regions) with associated field work is still to be done.
42.  This field work has been seriously delayed due partly to the unforeseen volume and complexity
of work involved, and partly to delays in defining and agreeing on the co-operation arrangement
between LC and the Lands Administration Research Center (LARC).
43.  An MoU was finalized in November 1995 between LC and LARC on field data collection,
however, the work has not been progressing with sufficient speed. The field data collection in the
regions for which LARC is responsible seems to have encountered some difficulties.



- 44 -                          APPENDIX 2
The overall progress in this joint effort could probably be improved through a revision of the division
of the responsibilities, in such a way that the comparative advantages and strengths of LARC and LC
respectively are better utilized. A large amount of work remains, in particular with regards to the
collection and subsequent digitization of detailed boundary data on stool/skin and family/clan lands.
The work plan presented by LC indicated the need for a project extension to accommodate this, and
the LC has also proposed to acquire scanning equipment and vectorization software to speed up the
work.
44.  The work plan presented by LC outlines a consecutive approach to data collection in the
regions, and stipulates that digitization of the already completed data for state, vested and
concessioned land awaits finalization of other field data collection in each region. The consequence of
this could be a significant delay in the delivery of a digital map product regarding the ownership
patterns. Attempting to collect nation-wide information on the family level might have been an over-
ambitious endeavor. In the light of the experience to date, the mission found that this amount of work
can not realistically be completed within the life of the project.
45.  Land Suitability. After installation of the new GIS equipment in February 1996, the Soil
Research Institute (SRI) digital unit is now fully operational in their offices in Accra, and the planned
work is progressing well. Entry of soil data attributes for the maps is proceeding, as well as
digitization of soil association maps in 1:250.000. Based on contour data received from SD, the SRI
has developed procedures for generating a DEM especially adapted for the purposes of the land
suitability modeling. The work on land suitability models, based on the FAO-AEZ system is well
advanced. Preparation of data on the pilot area, including a DEM, has been completed. SRI is
generally catching up on the delays incurred, and if the current pace is upheld, most of the planned
work could be finished according to the original schedule.
46.  The classification of the Ghanaian soil system into the FAO classification, which is necessary
for the suitability modeling, is currently done by the unit in Accra without involvement of the SRI-HQ
in Kumasi. Thereby, a general agreement and a peer review within SRI on the classification is
lacking, and this time consuming task is not shared equally among the relevant professional staff in
SRI. The Director of SRI has agreed to take up this exercise at Kumasi, and deliver FAO
classifications to Accra.
47.  Meteorological Services Department (MSD) has not been able to deliver the climate data
needed as input to the suitability modeling due to delays in entering data and technical problems with
the MSD software (CLICOM). Thus, progress in SRI has been hampered with regard to the ability to
build up the climate parameters and fully test the operational procedures needed for establishing the
climate section of the land suitability model.
In this regard, there is a recognized need for consolidation and strengthening of the GIS training of
the staff at SRI. The issue of integration of the capacity being built in the Accra unit into SRI at large
has not yet been addressed. This was discussed with the director of SRI who indicated an intention to
move the unit back to Kumasi after December '97, when he feels that the unit has become fully
operational and does not need additional support from the TA or the other EISD agencies.
48.  Meteorological Data  Entry of data into the Meteorological Services Department (MSD)
computerized database by external consultants have been completed, and existing data for the selected
parameters is now in the CLICOM system format for the period 1930 to 1995. Data entry for later
years and for other parameters is ongoing.



- 45 -                           APPENDIX 2
49. MSD is not yet fully equipped with regards to computers for building up climate databases, and
the in-house data entry processes have therefore been delayed. The remaining computer equipment
has arrived in the country and is due to be installed shortly, and the in-house data entry can then
proceed at full speed.
50.  As stated previously, MSD has not been able to deliver the climate data in the digital form
needed as input to the suitability modeling being undertaken by SRI due to technical problems with
the software (CLICOM). The capacity for general computers systems management in the MSD
computer unit needs to be improved.
51.  The MSD to date have limited capacity for client and demand oriented flexible data-deliveries,
and in particular to meet the needs arising from the EISD co-operation framework. Efficient and up-
to-date cost-recovery mechanisms and procedures allowing MSD to benefit directly from data
delivery services are lacking today, and in addition, a pricing structure for ad-hoc, customized data
deliveries is missing.
IV. LAND & WATER MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
52.  Although GERMP became effective in December 1993, it was not until one year later that
implementation of the Land & Water Management component commenced. The main reason for this
was the delayed deployment of the DANIDA T/A Specialist (Team Leader and Rural Sociologist)
who did not arrive until November 1994, pending the final decision of MOFA to merge the Agro
Forestry Unit and the Land & Water Management Unit of the Department of Crop Services. This
was a raobilization condition of DANIDA.
53.  This component is a pilot program to introduce and test improved land and water management
techniques, based on strong community participation in both the planning and implementation and
monitoring stages. The first year was to concentrate on establishment of the LWM Unit within CSD
in Accra, and thereafter the aim was to establish pilot field programs with 48 communities over a five-
year pe:riod. At the same time, the staff of the Agric Engineering Services Department (AESD)
would trained in improved land management on tractor cultivated land.
Implementation Progress
54.  In terms of community coverage, the project is -basically on track, given the late start. The
project has been launched in nine districts within six regiofts, A total twelve pilot communities have
been introduced to the project concept.
55.  Three communities, Kusele in the Upper West, Peki in Volta and Gbani-Gbeduri in the
Northern regions respectively are at an advanced stage where action plans have been developed and
community committees formed to oversee the implementation of the action plans. Extension field
staff are assisting 36 and six are farmers in Kusele and Peki respectively to adopt soil conservation
and fertility enhancement technologies.



- 46 -                          APPENDIX 2
Institutional Capacity Building
56.  Organization and management aspects of this component have been less successful in relation
to what was planned. The Land and Water Management Project Operation Committee (LWMPOC)
which is the oversight committee for this component is in place, and has held six meetings so far. The
Land and Water Management Unit (LWMU) has been created, and is staffed by two out of the
expected three specialists. The rural sociologist seconded to the project by the National Development
Planning Commission (NDPC) left the Unit in June 1996, and a replacement has not yet been
appointed. The DCS and the Department of Agricultural Extension Services (DAES) have for some
time been discussing the replacement of the rural sociologist. The DAES has expressed its willingness
to provide a rural sociologist but to date the two departments have not agreed on the terms of
reference for the assignment. The services of the socio-econornist could also be obtained through
linkages with local universities, where the project could support graduate students to work on project
issues. Apart from direct recruitment, these other options are available, and the project management
needs to come to closure on this matter, and replace the rural sociologist as a matter of urgency. A
major shortcoming is the fact that then Unit is also yet to fill the positions of ten soil and water
conservation subject matter specialist (SMS).
57.  Village Teams (VTs) made up of an extension field worker from DAES and a DCS personnel
have been formed in the three regions where the project is operational.
58.  Generally, the staff of the VTs lack the required technical skills (one with a relevant
background to land and water management, and the other with background in rural sociology) and do
not appear to be well motivated - . thus limiting their ability to contribute effectively with community
participatory programs on problem definition, analysis and solutions processes. To add to the
problem, in the absence of the SMSs, the VTs have, by default, also assumed additional responsibility
of providing technical backstopping to the Frontline Staff (FLS), a function which they have not been
well trained to undertake.
59.  The other major institutional constraint is that LWMU and Agro-forestry Unit (AFU) within
DCS still operate independently, without any real attempt at coordination, resulting sometimes in
duplication of effort. An exampleof this is in soil fertility regeneration and maintenance, where both
units are disseminating similar technologies through the Extension Service. In early 1994, GoG and
DANIDA agreed to a merger of the two units as a precondition for the arrival of the DANTDA
Technical Assistant Team. Unfortunately, this has taken place only on paper, but not in practice.
There is no justification, either administrative or technical, for the continued existence of the two
separate units. A merger would not only reduce administrative costs, but would also resolve the
qualified personnel problems as AFU is better endowed with qualified SMS than the LWMUS, and
would also improve logistics for implementing a sustainable land management program. It would
immediately solve the problem of the absent soil and water conservation SMS supposed to be posted
to the regions - as these could come from the AFU.
60.  Unless institutional constraints are removed, it is unlikely that the immediate objective of
creating capacity within MOFA to carry out planning and implementation of community based
improved land management will be met. Furthermore, since, in the long run, the process of promoting
good land and water management is substantially agricultural extension in nature, MOFA would need
to formulate an action plan towards a gradual merger of these village pilot LMVW operations into the
regular extension activities of the DAES to ensure the long term sustainability of the program.



- 47 -                           APPENDIX 2
Under that situation, the DCS would continue to provide SMS for Land and Water Conservation in
conformity with a unified agricultural extension system, and a policy of decentralization of these
services to the regions and districts.
61. There is also need for the links between this component and the other GERMP components to
be strengthened. It was agreed that the LWMU Coordinator should participate in the deliberations of
the Land Information Project Operations Committee (LIPOC) which oversees the development of the
Environmental Information System, incorporating, inter alia, land use, land capability and ownership
information. From project administration point of view, there is a need for LWMU to work more
closely with EPA, the overall GERMP lead agency - especially in areas of procurement, counterpart
fund management, and progress reporting.
Community Participation
62.  The project concept is based on community based planning and management of land within
micro-watersheds of community owned lands. Experience so far has shown that response of
communifies to the approach of community-based management is mixed. While communities in
Kusele in the Upper West Region appear enthusiastic and committed to the program, the Peki
community in the Volta Region appears to be less enthusiastic, and have not yet developed the
required interest in this initiative.
63.  Disparity in the attitude of communities may be attributed to the prevailing socio-cultural
differences such as land tenure, usufructuary rights, absence of legal framework for land use,
education, occupation and gender that exists among regions, and even districts, and sometimes
complicated by previous migratory patterns (such as in Peki). Since communities in the country differ
in several respects, it is doubtful if community participation could be obtained and sustained using the
same strategy or common formula. What is now needed is a willingness of communities to assume
ownership of this activity and to fully participate in the implementation of the Action Plan. It is
clearly inmperative that socio-cultural differences of communities should be properly identified at an
early stage, and appropriate strategy developed for each of the pilots if these are to be established
successfiully. The LWMU may also need to be more innovative in designing appropriate
approachs/strategies to elicit conrmunity participation and to expand the number of farm families
reached directly - especially in districts such as Peki and Gbani Gbeduri where so far the project
interacts directly with only six and eight farm families respectively.
Technology Dissemination
64.  M[ost of the effort to develop physical measures to reduce runoff and soil erosion has to date
concentrated on contour rock lining. While the field staff have been introduced to the A-frame for
contour lining, the required skill in its use is not clearly demonstrated on the stone barriers inspected,
and this needs to be reinforced during training sessions. The LWMU needs to broaden the range of
technologies being tried to include more innovative approaches with less maintenance requirements
such as earth bunds reinforced with vetiver grass. This technique has already been proven in other
parts of the country to be effective against sheet erosion, a common form of erosion in the northern
parts of the country. The effectiveness of cover crops in conserving soil and water and improving soil
fertility has been shown in small plot demonstrations with mucuna, cowpeas and pigeon peas by the
FLS in lLhe Upper East Region, even though cover density on the plots were less than optimum due to
poor ratins after planting.



- 48 -                          APPENDIX 2
65.  Another aspect of the project envisaged the establishment of adaptive trials to evaluate new
technologies developed by local agricultural research institutes. Although local research programs in
natural resource management have been initiated by CSIR Institute, there is little connection between
these programs and LWMU activities. The main reason for this is the lack of qualified SMS working
on this topic in the regions. The merging of AFU with LWMU should release the needed manpower
to carry out on-farm adaptive trials in conjunction with the research institutes. It would also be
beneficial if LWMU became more closely involved in the activities of the Research Extension Liaison
Committees (RELC) in the five agro-ecological zones of the country. This is one way of ensuring
that issues related to land and water management are brought to the fore and are properly addressed
by extension and research programs.
Training
66.  The training program is making good progress. Three headquarters staff of the project have
received a six-week training of trainers course in Adult Farmer Extension Education at the University
of Cape Coast. Twenty three staff members of MOFA have also benefited from study tours to Kenya,
Lesotho, Zimbabwe and Burkina Faso to visit soil conversation programs.
67.  In addition, a total of 55 MOFA staff have received four weeks of training in subject areas such
as land conservation practices, extension methodology, surveying techniques and participatory rural
appraisal techniques. However this training program overemphasizes course work, and has
insufficient time devoted to practical skills. The number of courses taught during any training period,
should be reduced to only the most important ones, to free more time for practical skill development.
68. Participation of NGOs in the program is almost negligible, although there are some NGO' s
involved in soil and water conservation and there was some early interaction with them. The project
would benefit greater involvement of the NGO and is encouraged to train staff of NGOs who are
already engaged in or are willing to disseminate information on soil fertility and conservation
enhancing technologies to farmers.
69.  A major potential problem is that front line extension staff have not been exposed to the
rudiments of land use capability and farm planning, which are pre-requisites to sustainable land use.
The LWMU need to take the initiative and liaise with the zonal RELCs and DAES to jointly plan a
training program in land use capability and farm planning for all FLS.
Studies
70.  A study on mechanized farming in Ghana to ascertain the environmental impact of the use of
tractors in soil tillage has been completed. The study identified approximately 3,400 tractors in the
country, two-thirds of which operate in the Northern Region.
71.  A major finding was that where erosion problems associated with tractor use occurred, this was
thought to be due mainly to improper equipment use and poor tillage techniques - and that improving
tractor drivers' operational skills would not solve this problem unless there was some incentive to
apply the new skills in the field. The Agricultural Engineering Services (AESD), acting on the
recommendations of the study, has proposed a pilot program of action to improve the skills of tractor
operators in safety and tillage, and to raise farmer awareness as to the long term benefits of insisting
on the use of proper tillage practices..



- 49-                            APPENDIX 2
72.  A planned study on existing experiences with community participation in the country and
implications for this project has not yet been initiated. The project would benefit from the experiences
of others such as NARMSAP and the Community Water Project.
Technical assistance
73. Over the past two years, DANIDA technical assistance has provided an Agronomist/Team
Leader and a Rural Sociologist to support the LWMU and this was originally due to end in October
1996. Responding to a request from MOFA, DANIDA has recently agreed to the extension of the
consultancy for a period of one year, to the end of October 1997, and it is likely that this maybe
extended further through to late 1998 or early 1999.
Policy Einvironment
74. At the time of project design, there was no evidence of any major policy constraint to the
implemeritation of farm conservation measures, therefore no up-front policy conditionality was
attached to the LWMP component. Notwithstanding, there is the need for LVWMU to liaise more
closely with EPA and district assemblies to explore legislative mechanisms aimed at supporting natural
resource conservation to complement the persuasive approach employed by LWMU. At the same
time, EPA must emphasize to NDPC the urgency for development of a National Land Use Policy.
Land Management Fund
75.  No progress has been made in developing the concept of the proposed Land Management
Fund. This was a conscious decision of the DANIDA Technical Assistance Team and DCS to allow
them concentrate first on establishing the LWM Unit, develop field operating procedures, and test
conservF'tion techniques in the field. There is also concern from both DANIDA and MOFA as to the
sustainability of such a support program, and both sides want to give it fuller consideration before
proceeding further.
V. PROCUREMENT
76.  The EPA has recruited a procurement officer who has been overseeing and coordinating
procureiment activities of the agencies. Procurement is proceeding reasonably well but delays do
occur as a result the shortage of counterpart funds. There were initially also inter-agency
procurement coordination problems, but these have now been solved in the main.
77.  The project has completed renovation and rehabilitation works on office buildings for the EISD
agencies and the LWMU, include the renovation of the survey school while new office buildings were
constructed for the RSAU. Rehabilitation of the EPA offices is on-going and contracts have been
awarded for the construction of regional offices for the EPA, civil works (regional staff housing) for
LWMU has not commenced, but designs are being completed and tendering will commence within
two months. Three sets of monitoring equipment has been bought for air quality monitoring in
addition to two other sets for monitoring water quality.
78.  An extensive range of computer hardware and software has been procured for all agencies
involved in the development of the GIS.



- 50 -
APPENDIX 2
There were initial delays but now almost all equipment is installed and operational. In all, the project
has received 56 vehicles including three trucks and one cinema van. Three buses are on order and an
ICB has been initiated to buy additional vehicles and motorcycles.
VI. PROJECT FINANCING
79.  As of August 1996, disbursements stood at US $8.79 million (Table 1), representing 48% of
the total Credit of US $18.1 million. Special Studies and Investigations have been the slowest
disbursing activity, using only 21% of the planned budget to date. Comparatively, all other activities
have disbursed fairly well, roughly between 65% and 50%. The shortage of GoG counterpart funds
has been a constraint since the beginning of the project. The shortage was most severe in 1995 when
the only GOG funding associated with the project was a direct transfer of cedis 469.4 million by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), to creditor agencies against custom duties owed by the project. Apart
from that, no direct funding was given to the project that year. The amount released to the project in
1996 (¢881.2 million) shows an increase over that released in 1995 and in 1994 (¢344.1 million).
80.  Under the present work program, an additional US $4.2 should be disbursed by the end of
1997, implying that a similar amount would remain undisbursed at the current Credit Closing Date of
December 31, 1997. There will be a need, therefore, to extend the project by an additional year if
project development objectives are to be fully met. GoG has indicated that they plan to request an
extension at the appropriate time. Expected expenditure is a one year extension period as shown in
Table 2. In the meantime, a proposal for the reallocation of IDA Credit among disbursement
categories is presented in Table 3. This is based on the present disbursement performance of the
various categories and future work plan for the remainder of the project.



APPBNDEX 3
BOGRROW9$ C3TH7=7H
tIMPLEMENTATION C01VTFLETON REP()RCR
~ rIOR~PON
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GHANA
CREDIT-2426-- GH



- 52 -                     APPENDIX 3
Year        1993         1994        1995       1996        1997        1998
SAR          395          -            -           -           -            -
Actual        700         980        1,250      1,500       2,200        2,300
$1.00 Equivalent in Cedis
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
I metric ton (m ton)   =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)       =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)          =      3.28 feet (ft)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONMYMS
DA            -      District Assemblies
DANIDA        -      Danish International Development Agency
DEM           -      Digital Elevation Model
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EISD          -      Environmental Information System Development
EPA           -      Environmental Protection Agency
EPC           -      Environmental Protection Council
GERMP         -      Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project
GES           -      Ghana Education Service
GET           -      Global Environmental Trust
GIS           -      Geographic Information Service
GOG           -      Government of Ghana
HIDEN         -      Historical Data on the Environment
HRP           -      Human Resource Development
LC            -      Lands Commission
LIPOC         -      Land Information Project Operation Committee
LUT           -      Land Utilization Type
LWMP          -      Land and Water Management Project
LWMU          -      Land and Water Management Unit
MEST          -      Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology
MOFA          -      Ministry of food and Agriculture
MSD           -      Meteorological Service Department
NEAP          -      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           -      Non-Governmental Organization
ODA           -      Overseas Development Administration
RSAU          -      Remote Sensing and Application Unit
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SD            -      Survey Department
SRI           -      Soil Research Institute



-53-                    APPENDIX 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
GHANA ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCe MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2426-GH)
PREFACE
This is ihe Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Ghana Environmental Resource
Managemnent Project (GERMP) for which International Development Association (IDA) Credit
No 24226-GH in the amount of US$18.1 million equivalent became effective in May 1993 and
disburseiment closed on December 31, 1998. The project had a life span of five years 1993 -
1997, however this time span was extended by one more year to December 1998.
In addition to the main IDA credit, co-financing of the project was provided by the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) and parallel financing by the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA now DFID) and the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET).
This document had been prepared on the basis of guidelines provided by the World Bank using
the Staff Appraisal Report, Technical Supervision Reports and Periodic Reports submitted by the
implementing agencies to the lead Agency - EPA as source documents.



-54-                   APPENDIX 3
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1]   INTRODUCTION
The Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP) was designed to
implement the National Environmentla Action Plan (NEAP) which was completed in
1990 and approved by Government of Ghana in 1991 under the co-ordinating role of the
Environmental Protection Council.
It was agreed that World Bank funding could be used to implement the GERMP. The
World Bank funding could be focused on institutional support to the EPC, to enable it to
fulfil its role as defined in the NEAP; on the introduction of improved management
practices to reduce land degradation which was identified as a major environmental
problem facing the country. The core of the project was the development of an effective
system for the management of environmental resources in Ghana.
2]    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The primary objective of the GERMP was to strengthen the capacity of the government
and people of Ghana to effectively manage environmental resource. This could be
achieved through putting in place institutional and technical capabilities required for
effective environmental monitoring, policy formulation and coordination; supporting a
pilot program to combat soil degradation and erosion; and helping to prevent further
destructure of the fragile resource in the coastal zone in which issues of global
environmental concerns were partly involved.
These objectives were clear, realistic and relevant to government policy on the
sustainable use, growth and development of environmental resources.
3]    PROJECT COMPONENTS
In support of the project objectives, the project had three main components as follows:
i.    Development of a National Resource Management System Development: this
involved Institutional Support to the Environmental Protection Agency; Human
Resource Development and Environmental Education.
ii.   Environmental Information System: This involved the development of a system
for the collection of information to monitor enviromnental quality; the collection,
interpretation and presentation of topographic, present landuse, land ownership,
land suitability and meteorological information that is determined by the needs of
the information users, planners and managers of environmental resources, and



-55-                   APPENDIX 3
iii.   Land and Water Management: This involved the introduction on a pilot basis of
improved land and water management based on community participation in the
planning, implementation and measures to reduce land degradation and thereby
increase form income and reduce rural poverty.
4]   P'ROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
a)    Project achievements in all the components were very satisfactory. Enough
capacity had been built in all the implementing agencies. Job knowledge and
skills had been increased substantially through conscious and systematic training
of Staff at all levels. In addition to academic training, on-the job training in the
form of attachments and workshops were provided in adequate and satisfactory
manner.
b)   Infrastructural facilities had been provided to all implementing agencies. In
particular, office and residential accommodation as well as office equipment and
vehicle were provided. This has enabled implementing agencies to begin to show
satisfactory operating results.
c)   It is reassuring to note that EPA in particular is now in a stronger position to
provide effective leadership in all matters relating to environmental resource
management. Its structures have been strengthened at Headquarters and the
regional and district levels. EPA has developed effective Intersectoral Network
involving all the important stakeholders. This has enhanced and enlarged EPA
technical expertise required for monitoring and enforcement of environmental
issues.
d)    Targets set on Environmental Information System development, in most cases,
have been exceeded and quality attained is very satisfactory. Environmental
quality monitoring especially water and air monitoring, is now fully functional at
Headquarters and the regions.
e)    Preparation of land use / land cover had progressed satisfactorily. At present 30
map sheets have been plotted.
t)    The Survey Department (SD) had completed production of the digital topographic
data covering the whole country at the scale 1:50,000 and 1:250,000. The quality
of map production had improved considerably as a result of the use of modem
equipment provided under the GERMP.
g)    The Soil Research Institute (SRI) had completed the digital soil association and
land suitability maps on scale 1:250,000 as well as the development of digital
elevation model (DEM) and slope maps at scale 1:1,000,000.
h)    Meteorological Service Department has almost completed the computerization of
the historic climatological records for the period since 1960.



- 56 -                  APPENDIX 3
i)    Lands Commission now has date sets for the following land ownership - state,
vested, stool/skin/family lands and concessions.
j)    Land and Water Management Pilot achieved most of the objective set for that
component. The major achievements included the use of improved farming
technologies, greater involvement and participation of communities in the project
activities, and human resource capacity building.
5]    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Several factors affected the smooth implementation of the project. These included
staffing, delays in the delivery of equipment, inadequate release of counterpart funding
and administrative bottlenecks involving the lead Agency and the implementing agencies.
5.1   Factors not Generally Subject to GOG Control
Factors not generally subject to GOG Control included delay in the start-up of the land
and Water Management Component of the project due to late receipt of DANIDA
fumding, and DANIDA technical support. Other delays in delivery of equipment for
project activities.
5.2    Factors Generally Subject to GOG Control
These included the slow, piece meal and inadequate release of counterpart funding, very
cumbersome procedures in clearing equipment from the port and the unplanned transfers
of key project personnel to other departments.
5.3   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies Control
These included the lack of maintenance culture to ensure that all operating equipment
remained functional at all times.
6.0   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
6.1   A solid foundation has been laid for the long-term sustainability of achievements made
under the GERMP. Sufficient capacity had been built in all the complementing agencies
through effective theoretical and practical training, provision of essential equipment
including vehicles and provision of office and residential accommodation. Some
institutions have been reorganized and restructured to make them more effective in the
performance of their responsibilities.
6.2   Some project activities will continue under the National Resource Management Project.
This will ensure the consolidation and sustainability of the achievements made under
GERMP.
There is also a strong government commitment to proper and judicious use of all
environmental resources.



-57-                    APPENDIX 3
7.0   BANK'S PERFORMANCE
7.1   The Bank's performance was satisfactory in terms of project identification, preparation,
appraisal and technical supervision. Release of funds from the Bank as well as co-
financiers was very satisfactory.
8.0   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
8.1   This was not satisfactory in terms of counterpart funding. However implementation of
project activities was highly satisfactory.
9.0   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
9.1   The outcome of the project was highly satisfactory. Almost all the objectives of the
project were achieved and in some cases targets were exceeded. Capacity building in
terms of human resource development and the provision of infrastructural facilities was
achieved satisfactorily.
Environmental Information System Development also exceeded target set in the SAR.
Another component which recorded highly satisfactory achievements was the Land and
Water Management. Many communities now adopt good agronomic practices on small
and large forms.
10.0  FUTURE OPERATIONS
Future Operations must be guided by the lessons from the implementation of the
GERMP. Future Operations must be made simple and manageable in terms of
institutional arrangements. Adequate Training must be given to staff to ensure smooth
and unimpeded implementation. This must be backed by high quality technical
assistance.
Financial arrangement must be such that funds needed for operations must be delivered
on timely basis and must be adequate. Special attention must be given to the ability to
secure government counterpart funding. Monitoring and Evaluation criteria must be
adequate, realistic and relevant.



MAP SECTION



BURKINA FASO                                        Ku.uuGHANA
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL
ZONES
AGRO - ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
SUDAN SAVANNA
GUINEA SAVANNA
TRANSITIONAL
DECIDUOUS FOREST
RAIN FOREST
COASTAL SAVANNA
PREDOMINANT
LIVESTOCK REGIONS
Volmer>b.Xp/  EiuV   ft \                       x                                       ISONYETS IN
NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
SANCTUARIES
-PRIMARY ROADS
MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
POETS
E6k  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0                                 REGION HEADQUARTERS
N-d                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ri 
S  10  20  30  40  50 A0FE0
GULF 00 GL!TSPA ~ ~    ~       ~       0 20~o 60 a ILOtTi
~~,  ~   ~oo1~w~ ~o~~Wo ~    ~         BURKNA FASO
ts3nk G,ohj   The donornooahons od *o bhE po -bndrThWs 3 ho-   sn this    _ f
C,                                                                      2rr            fh. pso  TIMa Wodd  C5. k p, eny -od3seo  J-
_  r  I ,o   in                                   r       -esulf of Goisso



____________________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD   23746~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB D    2 74
/Amoahd i j; (h      1   ULOME5  As                 KLOb EIE55 2   S _    S                                                                                        v       C                                  -      RAMSSARSITE BOUNDARY
NTO~~~~Ad                        S OME~~~~~TE-                                            - TESTS -N                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
AsiAissn  4                                                                                    4, _                                        MARSTEMA  ;HE,S0;MA
"''N  SAANOTTT  N"    05551  TOso                                                                NATSNANJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.                 U~~~RT,                       -- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARYIONA BOUDAR
Awomborm             /    S5O2Th                                                                0MosLkwbe  2) s                                o               0Kais_             03                               S2 &Q't-Ea                                 >0                                    °0
--   -u.  OEuoLsoj         CONT0LLGO                          -bLr                     m2                                 0Lko AIRCD                                                                    IC\/                              P<T G
\   8   Y    choposs conn2oo      .       -->    .t  a   Mf o m            on                  KILOMEIE55                                                                                                                                                  :          DzoSbIoks\  DY:5 M
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'
POR~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 5TPEERV                                                                                                          ZSXRS    N,- -K?4N  IA                                                                                             ________Nun     60  V\*?-  /                   ~ 
0      5--N>> NA                                                                                        I                              Bi-AdR  I.,~#MY
AA oATT~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "C                                               wg0~~
R-sSR4                                                                                                                                                    oIpA -O   MEH -  - 55                                                                       4EA        >         oSOo                        SM
A      U                                                              TAk,,,                                                                     OS              T. K--TZi           D .35'*    5                                                               SA3C'                                 IHUu
SBUSSUNK  -UNN-AREA               UT.T6  .UE 6515                                       ATROBT
/                      AND LEE M~~~~~.A.UBEN- ARIA                               VT ,N                        R-ATBR -S.T OBE RON WBUNARY
ORE\  TET,,.,TETSAEE                                                                                         -     MAIN TODS
UT~~~~~~TTT~~~~~  ETAINEOAOS                                      '' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0           5   5   A
SENKU BLC ~A'                                       CST   E  TNT                AE~             OTN                                       AI,6-T
G.-~~~~- 
AC~~~~~~~~~bE
A SUN AC  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                        <'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NGE
PROPOSED RAMSAR SITES                             ~~~BURKINA FASO  '- K
CQTE D 4.VO[RE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MI  OD
*  NATIONAL CAPITALD ~ ~     ~       ~
?0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
SEOD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                              ROUNDARIRD           5 SD'    A     1               8  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAY19



