Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20668 GH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28619)
ON A
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR5.0 MILLION (US$7.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 30, 2000
Rural Development m
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Cedi (C)
C 1,000 = US$ 0.38
US$ 1.00 = C 3,450
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Agriculture Development Bank
CEDEP            Center for the Development of People
CISF             Community Investment Support Fund
CWMP             Coastal Wetlands Management Project
CWPOC            Coastal Wetlands Project Operations Committee
CZIMP            Coastal Zones Indicative Management Plan
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DRIF             District Rural Infrastructure Fund
EPA              Environmental Protection Agency
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GET              Global Environment Trust Fund
GOG              Government of Ghana
GWD/WD           Ghana Wildlife Department/Wildlife Department
GWS              Ghana Wildlife Society
ISODEC           Integrated Social Development Center
KVIP             Kumasi Ventilated Improved Pit (latrine)
LI               Legislative Instrument
NEAP             National Environmental Action Plan
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
PC               Program Coordinator
PMU              Project Management Unit
RSPB             Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (UK)
SMC              Site Management Committee
VIP              Village Infrastructure Project
WMU              Wetlands Management Unit
WRI              Water Research Institute
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Peter Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Patience Mensah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               15
6. Sustainability                                                                   16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  21
9. Partner Comments                                                                 21
10. Additional Information                                                          24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               40
Annex 1O. Mission Aid Memoire                                                       46
Annex 1. Borrower's Contribution                                                   55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000833                                        Project Name: COASTAL WETLANDS
MANAGEMENT
Team Leader: Patience Mensah                               TL Unit: AFC1O
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
IVame: COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT                   L/C/TF Number: TF-28619
CountryiDepartment: GHANA                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/15/91                                 Effective: 03/12/93           03/12/93
Appraisal:  02/29/92                                  MTR:  10/01/96              10/01/96
Approval:  08/28/92                                 Closing:  12/31/97           12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/Ghana Wildlife Department/Wildlife Division and
Environmental Protection Agency
Other Partners: Ghana Wildlife Society
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                           Magdi Iskander
Sector Manager:      Jean-Paul Chausse                          John Joyce
Team Leader at ICR:   Patience Mensah                           Ian Hill
ICR Primary Author:   Lucie Tran
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
- Outcome is rated as satisfactory since the funds were usedfor the purposes intended; project activities were
carried out and work well and the global objectives of the GEF were met.
- Sustainability is likely given further donor support to be obtainedfronm the Netherlands, and the arrangemlents
nmade for a cost center within the Government's medium-term framework for Wetlands Conservation. Salaries and
basic recurrent costs for WD are being provided for annually (see Partner Comments - Section 9) and all CWMP
staff are retainedcfor continuationj of project activities.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
To maintain the ecological integrity of five key coastal wetland areas by involving the people who
derive their livelihood from these ecosystems in the planning and implementation of management programs;
to identify and monitor the common resources that benefit the human and bird populations in the wetlands,
and manage them to maintain critical bird habitat without unduly restricting the options of people to derive
benefit from the resources. The project would develop capabilities at government and community level for
implementing the program, fund baseline and monitoring studies, and a study on development options that
would be compatible with sustainable use of the environment.
The project's objectives were clear, and consistent with the Bank's environmental conservation and
development strategies in Ghana. The project's main objectives to preserve natural habitats, improve
biodiversity conservation, and promote community participation were consistent with the primary
objectives of the Bank's safeguard policies of "doing no harm" and sought to go beyond them in achieving
beneficial outcomes. When this component of the Environmental Resources Management Project was
being prepared it was selected as one of the innovative operations of the Bank.
The objectives were more complex for the executing agency to implement than anticipated at
appraisal because it required a range of policy changes and institutional improvements from the
government and from various institutions and because activities covered under the project were dispersed
over a wide geographic area making it difficult to use efficiently the limited resources available. The
project's implementation unit, the Ghana Game and Wildlife Department (GWD) (later to become the
Wildlife Department (WD)) had to transform its traditional command, control philosophy approach at the
beginning of the project's life to a more collaborative, consultative approach during implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No change.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components as listed in the Staff Appraisal Report focussed on the following activities:
(a)    Project Management. This component supported the Wildlife Department (WD) of the Ministry of
Lands and Forestry (MLF) for management of the coastal wetlands project, including staffing the WD,
providing training, equipment and transport.  The component funded baseline surveys and regular
monitoring of ecological and socio-economic conditions in the coastal wetlands, and the status of lagoon
fisheries. Monitoring was to be carried out by local consultancies (universities and other specialists), and
would be closely linked to regular monitoring of environmental quality, supported under the Ghana
Environmental Management Project (GERMP) of which this project forms a component. Some studies of
the environmental implications of various development options were to be financed under GERMP and
linked with studies to develop a national wetland conservation strategy. The project supported public
awareness programs through training in environmental education to WD staff and the Wildlife Clubs of
Ghana, a junior wing of the NGO, the Ghana Wildlife Society - GWS). The project would also finance
production and dissemination of education materials, sponsor workshops and underwrite awareness and
education activities to be organized by the GWS.
(b)    Site Management and Demarcation. Financing was made available for boundary surveys and
demarcation. The project would also fmance the construction of observation posts, an education and a r
esearch center at Songor, simple on-site education centers at other sites, habitat enhancement and
-2 -



community development activities. The wetlands program was linked to community-based land and water
management, supported under the GERMP, through the promotion of measures to reduce soil erosion and
improve vegetative cover in the immediate catchments of the wetland sites.
(c)   Investment Support Fund. The project made available an investment support fund to finance
income-generating options in the wetlands that are compatible with maintaining wetland ecology.
(d)    Sakumo Effluent Disposal. The Sakumo Lagoon, which lies on the westem margin of Tema, and a
new sewage treatment plant at the time intended to discharge treated effluent into the lagoon. The natural
outlet of the lagoon is severely restricted by a road and railway embankment. The project provided funds
for the construction of a pipe and marine outfall that would discharge the treatment effluent into the sea
instead of the lagoon. This was to have minimized the risk of nutrient build-up and consequent
entrophication in the lagoon, with no adverse effects in the surf zone due to rapid dilution. The project also
financed a study of the hydrology of the lagoon and possible effects of dredging and of modifying the
existing sluice and culvert through the railway and road embankment to restore natural tidal flow and
improve habitat and water quality.
There were no Bank-financed projects in Ghana specifically for environmental operations at the
time of project design. However, much of the previous IDA lending for sectoral projects had a direct
impact on the environment, particularly through operations in agriculture, forestry mining and industry, and
urban development. Experience with these types of operations demonstrated a need to work within an
agreed national policy with clearly identified priorities, and within a stable macro-economic environment.
Also important were the need to involve communities in the planning and implementation of sustainable
resource use, providing institutional focus for the management of environmentally-related matters with
agreed procedures for effective coordination, improving environmental management skills at district as well
as central levels, and providing training and support to implementating agencies for procurement and
disbursement. The project was also consistent with conclusions drawn from a broader Bank experience
contained in the 1991 progress report entitled "The World Bank and the Environment".
The grouping of project components was confusing and could have been arranged differently to
better reflect the description of project objectives, e.g., as in the classification contained in the Grant
Agreement: (a) Program Establishment and Operation, (b) Site Demarcation and Management, (c) Sakumo
Lagoon Effluent Disposal, (d) Establishment and Operation of Investment Support Fund, (e) Development
and Implementation of the Education and Public Awareness Program.
3.4 Revised Components:
No change.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project was submitted for two QAG reviews, one in
February 1998 and another in July 1999. Although quality at entry was not rated by QAG, the first review
did note that the project benefitted from strong ownership, vision and energy by the precursor to the Ghana
Wildlife Society (GWS), from prior work done over six years with the support of international NGOs, and
from an energetic environmental movement in Ghana which produced one of Africa's first, and best,
NEAPs. The second review credited the GWS with the original project concept stating that it had made a
strong case for community-based conservation efforts along Ghana's coastal lagoons. However, since the
project was designed early in the GEF pilot phase (August 1992), the second review noted that neither the
Bank nor the GEF had any mechanisms at that time to provide direct grant suppport to the NGO.
Therefore, a larger plan was constructed to give a key role to the government's Wildlife Department and
- 3-



the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The government agencies could then contract out services to
the GWS. The project design also tried to build in social objectives through studies on the socio-economic
and cultural uses of the lagoons in order to target the communities concerned to effect positive change.
Community-based development, which was also considered original at the time, was implemented
with difficulty by the GWD which lacked the necessary specialized skills and experience needed for this
type of management. In the case of the Community Investment Support Fund (CISF), no implementation
instructions or manual was available in the SAR or GEF Project Document. This slowed down
implementation to the component since the manual had to be drafted before disbursements could begin.
Although Government enthusiasm was high, in terms of counterpart contribution, the project was only
allocated sporadic amounts for most of the implementation period.  Overall, the project design
underestimated the task ahead and overestimated the implementation capacities of the government and the
WD to coordinate and implement the activities under the CWMP.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project experienced late start-up, recruitment delays, staffing problems and chronic shortages of
counterpart funding. The implementation record was slow for most of the components except for the
education and public awareness sub-component and the community investment support program, both of
which performned above expectations given the difficult circumstances under which they were executed.
Despite these impediments, the project did accomplish important goals. The CWMP represented
Ghana's first and most extensive experiment with true community-based, collaborative management of
natural areas. Most notable has been the effective on-site collaboration between staff of the Wildlife
Departnent (WD), the responsible NGO (GWS), and the local stakeholders such as the communities living
in the wetlands. Under the project, the five project sites have been registered with the Ramsar Convention
Secretariat and national gazettment of the sites under Ghanaan law has been achieved providing protection
of wetlands where none was previously available, and identification of areas representing coastal wetlands
ecosystems where none previously existed. Local by-laws to empower local communities in ensuring that
they will have the legal statute for using traditional norms to regulate resource use within the Ramsar sites
have also been developed. Passage of this needed piece of legislation as well as development and enactment
of the local by-laws by the District Assemblies (DAs) were needed for regulating the use of the wetland
sites in line with conservation objectives.
A national wetlands conservation strategy has been prepared and approved by the Ministry of Land and
Forestry. The Bank reviewed a draft of the Strategy (early-1999) and found that the quality of the report
and the scope of planned consultations compared favorably with similar national strategies in other
countries.
Environmental awareness building efforts (long- and short-term) by the NGO implementation partner,
the GWS, is one of the project's most successful outputs, as reflected in the numbers and diversity of
constituents it involved, and the increasing institutional sophistication and scope of the GWS itself since the
project began.  Increased awareness of  environmental protection by communities have reduced
indiscriminate harvesting of mangroves for fuelwood, trapping of birds and turtles, reduced encroachment
on the sites, cleared rivers and creeks, promoted biodiversity conservation activities, and monitored the
over-harvesting of its lagoon resources.
-4 -



The community infrastructure aspects of the project of providing sanitation units to local communities
served a dual purpose of improving the health of the local communities as well as improving water quality
and the general environment in the surrounding wetland areas. However, execution of other aspects of the
civil works (education and visitor centers, Songor research center in particular) planned under the project
was not completed. Staff accommodations fared better with most of the housing construction completed for
all sites except Keta.
The Community Investment Support Fund (CISF) for the support of micro-enterprises as part of the
community development program performed well since disbursements began in early 1998. Demand for
the funds by communities within the sites has been high and the fund is fully disbursed. The CISF started
late because the operation manual was not ready (no specifications were available in the project's
document) and the development options study which was to provide input into designing the fund was
completed too late to be used. A subsitute assessment was used in the interim to identify the target groups
and the mechanisms for the fund.
Gender. (see Ratings for Achievement of Objectives Section).
A Beneficiary and Social Impact Assessment Studywas carried out in January 2000 and its findings
have been incorporated into the text of the report. The methodology and findings of the assessment is
summarized in Annex 8 "Beneficiary Survey Results" and the full report is available in the project files.
A Stakeholder Workshop was also held in December 1999 which provided input to the Beneficiary
and Social Impact Assessment. The minutes from the workshop is available in Annex 9 and in the project
files.
The project's closing date was extended twice for a cumulative period of two years, during which time
much of the project's progress and impact were achieved. Disbursement accelerated under the MLF, the
Parliament endorsed the gazettement of the Ramsar sites and the local by-laws were effected, the National
Wetlands Strategy was formulated and put into effect, the Community Investment Support Fund was fully
disbursed, and the GWS was able to establish an additional 200 wildlife clubs. At the time when the
project's closing dates were granted, Bank management acted on the recommendations of Bank staff who
were familiar with Ghana's conditions, government, and institutions, and judged that the preparations in
place were a good indication that the project's goals would be met.
4.2 Outputs by components.
1. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
This component is rated marginally satisfactory. Overall, the project was successful in lending support
to the WD in managing the CWMP. The WD evolved from a department under MLF with little experience
in wetland management, to a department with an improved capacity for community-based management of
wetlands. WD's capacity in the planning, coordination, participatory management, and monitoring aspects
of its work on coastal wetlands issues has been strengthened and it can provide advice and feedback to
MLF.
Baseline studies have been carried out and regular monitoring contracts set up with three Ghanaan
research institutions based on the studies' recommendations. The project's management departments and
district and village level institutions have been exposed to systems for selection of development options, and
the environmental awareness campaigns have shown results of reaching the different levels of government
- 5 -



and academic institutions on conservation strategy and monitoring as well as sensitized the public to
environmental issues.
The Ministry of Lands and Forestry prepared a five-year management plan for the different sites as of
December 1999 to integrate CWMP activities into its regular programs.
Management and Coordination. Because of the government hiring freeze, the position of Executive
Director for EPA was vacant at the time of project start-up. The CWMP, which was under the
coordination and management auspices of the EPA, received no management guidance or support during
that time and it was not until October 1994 that the vacancy was filled and the WD able to complete
recruitment of qualified personnel to fill the department's posts (headquarters and site management.
Management of the project ran into difficulties initially because of the lack of joint planning and
understanding between the.different departments/institutions, and also because of staffing and structural
problems, but the project did benefit from  continuity in senior project leaders  throughout the
implementation period.
Project coordination, planning, and implementation between the different implementation partners and
elsewhere were weak initially for the following reasons: (a) different implementation teams did not have a
common vision of the project's objectives, e.g., WD and GWS, (b) there was a lack of common
understanding of the respective roles and responsibilities of different staff within the same department, e.g.,
between the Project Coordinator (PC) and the Senior Technical Advisor (STA) at headquarters, and
between the site wardens from the WD and GWS liaison officers at the field level. This situation was later
remedied when: (i) the WD, following Bank mission recommendations, clarified staff and management
roles in project implementation and adopted a more team-oriented approach to project management; (ii) the
Bank's supervision missions recommended a joint review of workplans and frequent reviews and
exchanges of implementation experiences to remedy the problem, the project conducted planning workshops
to help define the project's objectives and clarify responsibilities (GWS and WD); and (iii) a project
management review revised the terms of reference for the PC and the STA, the Research and Eduction
Liaison Officers and Site-monitoring coordinator. Also, the PC and STA at the time were only "half-time"
employess contracted six months per year for the project. Following these changes, exchanges in
workplans, and collaboration in the field, redefined teamwork between the WD and GWS improved project
administration considerably.
Structurally, the project was a separate component of the broader Ghana Environmental Resources
Management Project (GERMP) which closed one year earlier on December 31, 1998, following which the
lead responsibility for project management was transferred from the EPA to the Ministry of Lands and
Forestry (MLF).  Under this arrangement, a full-time PC was appointed and worked under the direct
supervision of the Technical Director of the MLF, and the rate of implementation and site management, as
well as the pace of construction improved markedly.
Site Management Committees (SMCs) were formed under the project to facilitate inter-sectoral
participation in decision-making and to ensure harmony in the management of the wetland sites, and
memberships included a fair representation of all principal stakeholders from each site (local government,
central government agencies, traditional council, trade associations) and later included a greater number of
community members to encourage decentralization of management functions to grassroot level.
The formulation of a wetlands strategy has been accomplished. The National Wetlands Strategy
entitled "Managing Ghana's Wetlands: A National Wetlands Conservation Strategy" and dated 1999 was
published by the MLF and was developed as a follow-up to the National Land Policy.
- 6 -



Research and Monitoring. Overall, the project has been successful in meeting the project objectives
and has been reasonably successful in setting up monitoring programs for the sites. Almost all of the
studies were completed as planned, except for socio-economic studies of the two larger sites at Songor and
Keta. For the Development Options Study, it was completed too late for the final results to be used during
project implementation.
Ecological and socio-economic baseline studies were completed for the three wetland sites of
Muni-Pomadze, Densu Delta and Sakumo Lagoon in December 1994. Studies are listed in Section 10
"Additional Information" of the report. Similar ecological studies for the two larger sites, Songor and Keta
were completed around December 1998. These culminated in a several seminars held on wetland ecology
and management in Accra in March 1995, and with local communities at the Muni, Sakumo and Songor
sites, to present findings and get feedback from local residents on the nature and type of interventions
proposed and to sensitize these communities to the threats of waste disposals, sanitation, and land use
practices to the lagoon ecosystem. The findings of the studies and recommendations were used in
monitoring plans for the sites and ecological monitoring was contracted out to a three Ghanaian research
institutions, the Zoology Department (University of Ghana), the Water Research Institute (CSIR), and the
Ghana Wildlife Society.
A computerized database has been set up to meet the need for effective administrative and technical
coordination of the monitoring program, and to ensure that the WD can understand and keep abreast of the
results of the monitoring program. Researchers felt that this was necessary to develop the technical
capacity of the WD staff. To integrate monitoring information into a system, specifications for developing
the geographic information database containing internal zoning, mapping, research and monitoring data has
been developed.
The project also showed good results in protecting water quality and resident bird populations in the
project sites which were on the decline. A report issued by the WD on monitoring and waterbird statistics
in July 1999 indicated that populations of waders and terns remained stable at most of the sites, and in the
later years (1997, 1998) peak counts have been high in the Keta, Songor, and Sakumo sites. For example,
at the Keta site, the number of waders increased from about 31,400 in 1986 to 96,661 in 1998, and tems at
the Densu delta site increased from 4,900 in 1986 to 23,184 in 1998. Trapping of tems were reduced and
encroachment from urban housing developers in the Sakumo site was arrested.
An innovative aspect of the environmental monitoring aspect involved winning the collaboration of a
private sector company in-the conservation of wetlands and roosting sites for the migratory birds. Panbros
Salt, a salt processing company which was already established at the Densu site at the time the project
began, has collaborated in managing its salt winning in such a way that certain locations which are crucial
for migratory bird roosting and nesting are left untouched, and fishing lagoons are reserved for the local
population. Panbros company expected to gain from this collaboration through legal protection of its
property from encroachment under the Ramsar law. Panbros' security guards collaborate with the WD in
monitoring the sites for encroachment, disturbances and resource over-exploitation.
Under the project, critical nesting sites and predators of the existing species of the country's sea turtles
were identified in the Songor, Keta and along the Muni-Pomadze sites. Four out of five species of sea
turtles reported from the West African coast occur in Ghana waters and three of these (the leatherback,
green, and olive ridley) nest along the Ghanaian coast. Encroachment of the turtle nesting sites by humans
and domestic animals (pigs and dogs), and incidental catches of sea turtles by coastal fishermen, were
threatening their survival. This information was shared with the local communities and led to a number of
- 7-



activities: (a) the formation of small village groups or task forces for the protection of nesting sites for the
sea turtles, (b) workshops for representatives of coastal communities in the most critical nesting sites, (c)
meetings with villages along the coast with the other sites to discuss survey findings and involve
communities in the development of a strategy for monitoring and protecting the turtles, and (d) to date, five
community task forces have been formed with the assistance of the GWS liaison officers posted at the sites.
At project design, the Development Options Study was to be carried out first, followed by the
socio-economic studies. However, once completed the Development Options Study's results could not be
used for identifying proposals for the CISF and had to be revised. Consequently, the socio-economic study
for the two larger sites, which was postponed pending the findings of the Development Options Study were
delayed, became obsolete, and had to be cancelled. In its place, a consultant identified essential indicators
to be used in assessing changes in socio-economic factors at the sites as a basis for selection and
implementation of the CISF.
Public Awareness and EducationThis sub-component was particularly well executed, consistent with
the QAG assessment. Under the project's implementation arrangements, the WD collaborated with the
GWS as the implementation partner in designing and carrying out a range of environmental awareness, site
management and community development activities. GWS was engaged because the WD at project
start-up did not have the staff nor the skills required to execute the component. The component was
designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of the two partners, community-based institutions and the
local governments to cooperate and carry out the program.
The project experienced some difficulties in the initial start-up because the roles and definitions of what
was expected from the WD site wardens versus the GWS education/liaison officers was not clearly defined,
as mentioned earlier, and this led to confusion and some duplication of efforts in the field.  These
weaknesses were later corrected and the partnership between the two institutions became productive and
collaborative.
The component maintained good progress throughout the project period. GWS met all its goals for
school visits and new wildlife club initiation and development, public events, and training programs. By
1994, community education officers were on-site and participating in defining the community development
aspects of the project, community-based seminars were planned, public events were initiated, and issues of
the children's wildlife magazine, "Nko", were being introduced. Despite the considerable delays in project
startup and implementation which has included long periods when project counterpart funds were not
released (e.g., 1995), the GWS managed to carry on a range of monitoring and educational activities using
funds from other sources. These efforts were critical in enabling the project to maintain the momentum at
the field level.
The GWS carried out its mandate by forming wildlife clubs in schools and carrying out a variety of
community consultations, education, and promotional events such as: (a) publishing and distributing
education materials, carrying out educational activities (field trips, conservation camps, training seminars
and workshops) and indoor activities (quizzes and debates among wildlife clubs, "Wildfest", drama, arts
and crafts, etc.), (b) developing important functional linkages with the communities and local government
institutions, and (c) establihsing school projects (woodlot establishment, tree nurseries development, and
wildlife farming, e.g., beekeeping, snail and grasscutter breeding). Through these programs, the youth in
the project areas learnt of the importance of wetlands related to economic development, and some acted as
ambassadors carrying the message to other communities. The GWS offered training to the club leaders in
fnancial mobilization and club management and some club members also gained access and exposure to
- 8 -



new techniques such as nursery and tree planting. Workplans were developed to guide the GWS education
officers in community outreach programs, to create awareness of environment including workshops,
personal interaction with local leaders, film showings, drama, public meetings and consultations. Public
meetings and consultations were held in more than 90 percent of the communities in and around the fringes
of the wetland sites and 10 seminars were held at the Ramsar sites, targetting the adult population and
community leaders. As a result of these efforts, some members of the communities have mobilized groups
to undertake clean-up activities on a regular basis and those who refuse to attend such communal efforts
are sanctioned. Others have formed groups to patrol, arrest and prosecute environmental offenders within
the wetland sites. Various communities have also mobilized to plant trees and establish woodlots in an
effort to restore degraded coastal mangroves and provide a source of fuel. The Department of Community
Development would assist in mobilizing the local people, the WD provided cleaning implements to the
communities, and the Forestry Division provided free extension services with seedlings. By January 2000,
about 30 percent of wetland communities have passed by-laws to control sanitation in the wetland areas.
Mobilized groups have even assisted in rehabilitation of school buildings.
Wildlife Club initiation often exceeded the target set at 30 per year. As of November 1999, the
Wildlife Clubs formed in schools grew to about 600 accross the country from an initial level of 155 in 1992
(Source: Ghana Wildlife Society records) when the project began. The wildlife magazine, "Nko", was
published three limes a year and circulation was estimated at about 5,000 copies per year. GWS produced
and distributed flyers and calendars, and published a book entitled "Waterbird Ecology and Management of
Coastal Wetlands in Ghana." Periodic events designed to promote public awareness and environmental
conservation were conducted yearly together by the GWS and WD and as the Wildlife Club numbers
increased, frequent visits by animators became necessary to stimulate the Clubs and ensure that they did
not lie dormant. Training of trainers needed to be maintained to ensure continuity in the absence of the
anirnators. Sustainable impact of the programs also required that environmental messages be reinforced
continuously, particularly in areas where certain activities can mean livelihood for wetland inhabitants. All
the activities necessary for a successful program depended on availability of funding, resources and
personnel. As funding fell short towards the end of the project and after the contract between GWS and the
WD came to an end, the GWS slowed down the activities.  The beneficiary assessment in January 2000
found that many of the school clubs in the wetland areas were dormant and membership of the active clubs
averaged about 20. The clubs could not organize quite a number of activities such as fieldtrips because of
financial difficulties. However, GWS has recruited Regional Coordinators whose duties, among others, are
to revive the dormant clubs. The GWS has developed linkages with other organizations in executing the
education component, but in general, the participation of the stakeholders in planning, execution, funding
and monitoring of the awareness campaign was weak. Consequently, following the withdrawal of GWS,
the site wardens of the WD had little basis for continuity and have had to design their own programs to
continue the education campaign.
Despite this funding drawback, overall, the public awareness and education program has made
important contributions to the project's objectives. Specifically it succeeded in: (a) increasing public
awareness and understanding of wetlands management (e.g., organized maintenance of sites by local
groups, club memberships, tree plantings by communities, etc.); (b) changing negative attitudes and
practices of communities regarding the use of wetland resources (decreased negative practices, decreased
encroachment of sites); (c) creating ownership as demonstrated by participation of communities in the
conservation of wetland resources (local community cleaning up campaigns); and (d) encouraging
cornmunity-based organization of wetland resource management (e.g., community-organized clearance of
waterways, turtle monitoring groups). The GWS, in using the clubs as a channel for public awareness
creation, was able to penetrate several schools with the conservation message and form a solid basis for an
environmentally aware society of the future. Some impacts of the activities could have been strengthened
-9-



and sustainability increased if local stakeholders were more involved in all stages of planning, particularly
in: identification of problems, planning and design of community-based education interventions, execution
of workplans (usually developed in Accra), funding of activities, and monitoring aspects, the influence of
the activities on the local population in the long run could be remarkable.
The QAG report of July 16, 1999 commended the project's role in raising public awareness of
environmental issues and underlined that GWS gained significant experience through this effort. QAG
estimated that this represented the key achievement of the project.
2. SITE DEMARCATION
This component is rated as marginally satisfactory.  All the objectives under this component were
achieved, but with significant delay. The five Ramsar sites have now been surveyed and their maps
updated and certified by the Survey Department. The sites have been registered with the Ramsar
Convention. Physical demarcation of the boundaries of the sites with signposts and billboards have been
accomplished, complemented with information posts located inside the sites in English and local languages.
The total area covered by the five sites is about 1,685 km2.
The draft legislative instrument (LI) for the legal establishment of the Ramsar wetland sites, submitted
to Parliament for endorsement in mid-October 1999, was approved on December 2, 1999. Local by-laws,
which complement the LI on conservation and use of the wetlands are being reviewed by legal committees
of the district assemblies concerned. The by-laws will ensure local communities legal backing for using
traditional norms to regulate use of the wetland resources and included inputs from consultations with DAs
and the participation of local authorities to identify and compile an inventory of traditional regulations
governing the use of the wetlands.
Major habitat enhancement has been accomplished to improve breeding and roosting conditions for
shorebirds including rehabilitation of degraded bunds of salt pans, providing mounts and boxes for nesting.
Additional sign posts and billboards have also been erected around the sites to guide users of sites. Choked
river channels and creeks are cleared to improve water transport, fisheries and crop production in some
areas (4 km at Songor site, and 1.5 km at Muni-Pomadze). Community task forces are formed to protect
the marine turtle breeding grounds and to prevent inappropriate exploitation of the wetland resources.
Trees are being planted in different locations: Songor - 10 acres; Akatsi - 8 acres; Sakumo - 2 acres, and
Muni-Pomadze - 2 acres. The Tema sewerage outfall is now diverted to the sea averting pollution to the
Sakumo Lagoon.
Staff housing accommodation with fences (not included at appraisal) has been constructed for 11 staff,
as well as a boardwalk at Songor, and 10 refuse collection sites at various locations within the sites. Weak
contract management led to a number of problems with the civil works consultant and the contractors,
ranging from delays in delivering plans and documents for construction to the contractors abandoning the
sites for the Songor research center and the units at Keta, and the contracts had to be terminated. WD had
planned to call the performance bond and a Bank mission at the time, urged WD to report on the
contarctor's performance to the Ministry of Works and Housing who is responsible for the classification of
building contractors. The contract was subsequently reawarded and completed for the Keta site.
Visitor centers for the education and public awareness promotion under construction at Keta,
Ada-Foah, Sakumo and Winneba, were later suspended by the Bank because of poor design and lack of
consultation with stakeholders, restarted after the MLF intervened with the Bank, then cancelled because
the work could not be completed before the project closing date.
- 10 -



Community Development Activities. This sub-component was well executed. Implementation of the
community development activities was late in starting up because few of the project site staff had the
educational background or work experience needed to promote community economic development
activities. No such activities were identified until about 1995, when GWS education officers posted at the
sites, together with the SMCs held community meetings and consultations and identified urgently needed
improvement of sanitation facilities at three sites (Muni-Pomadze, Densu Delta and Songor).
Community development activities and infrastructure under the project has mostly involved the
construction of latrines, KVIP units, septic units, and the central waste disposal systems. Although the
communities were enthusiastic about the facilities, their involvement in planning, design and
implementation of the construction was low. The decision to construct such units was not based on a
community needs assessment as such, but rather was identified at the project management level as a
pressing sanitation, health, and environmental problem for all of the Ramsar sites. This forned the
premise for identifying the communities' needs for facilities. Because of the low level of consultation
cornbined with poor communication of the project's environmental purpose, communities' perceived the
project's main objective initially as constructing sanitation facilities on the Ramsar sites. This perception
was later changed as the project's aims became clearer to the communities.
In all locations, the community chiefs and elders provided the land for construction of the facilities.
Initially, communities contributed unskilled labor estimated to cost about US$30,000, increasing to
US$919,000. However, mobilization of community labor and resources proved to be too slow leading to
delays in implementation so that local contractors had to be hired for the construction to be completed on
time. Currently, most facilities are fully used. Some communities have plans for their maintenance while
others have not made any plans or have misconceptions about how the facilities are to be maintained.
Others are experiencing water shortages or cannot obtain water regularly for the septic tanks. Therefore,
while local contracting helped to complete construction of the facilities in a timely manner, it was evident
that community ownership of the projects was weak, and input to and feedback from the SMCs was weak.
SMCs were comprised mostly of central government agency representatives (65 percent), with only about
14 percent of the representatives being from local associations (fishermen, salt miners, farmers) and
another 14 percent from local government. Currently, community representation is being gradually
increased.
In terms of achievements, the construction of these facilities contributed greatly to the communities'
participation and involvement in development projects. The projects have established weekly clean up
campaigns in some communities and contributed generally to increased awareness of sanitation and
maintenance of the wetlands sites.
3. INVESTMENT SUPPORT - The Community Investment Support Fund (CISF)
This component is rated satisfactory. Despite a long delay in CISF's start-up, demand from the
recipient communities was high, disbursement moved faster than anticipated, and in two years the fund was
fully disbursed. It exceeded most targets set except for that of timely loan repayment. Within the project
period, the component also built capacity, prompted a general appreciation of support received, and
reinforced the perception that the project was promoting a better livelihood for the people of the
communities it targetted. However, it is too early to assess its full impact on the communities over a longer
term and to assess the loan repayment records given that most of the funds have only been available for a
year.
- 11 -



Building on the broader objectives of the community development objectives, this component was to
provide the investment fund to link communities' economic activities with biodiversity conservation
activities. As mentioned above, the activities to be supported under this fund was identified before the
Development Options Study could be completed. However, once completed, many of the activities
supported by the fund were in agreement with the recommendations from the study.
No procedures for the implementation of the CISF was included in the original project documents.
This caused long delays in disbursement under the component. Consequently, the Bank collaborated with
the PMU and the EPA to prepare a draft manual of procedures to define the eligibility criteria and the
procedures for operating the investment fund. The manual drew on the experience gained from other rural
development projects such as the Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP), and GEF Small Grants
Scheme, as well as from the small credit schemes under IFAD, the Agricultural Development Bank and the
Rural Banks and includes profiles of micro-enterprises common in the communities to guide in reviewing
the financial aspects of proposals. A key requirement for eligibility was for the proposals to be linked to
biodiversity conservation activities at the sites, and micro-enterprises proposed would not have adverse
effects on the ecology of the sites. Biodiversity conservation components of the proposals were considered
as incremental costs to be supported with grants, revenue-generating components would be treated with
terms similar to other rural development operations such as the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP), and
ASIP, and beneficiaries were required to provide equity contributions in cash or in kind. Identification,
first-level screening, selection and implementation would involve whole communities, or groups within
communities, at the sites, the SMCs, and site personnel of the GWD and the GWS and fnal selection
would involve a joint approval by project unit and EPA. The investment would target assistance to the
poorest in the communities, hence most beneficiaries were expected to be women.
Processing and preparation of community groups for the CISF began in 1997 and the first
disbursement was made in September 1998 and the bulk of disbursements were made in 1999. As of
October 1999, 72 groups of micro-enterprises numbering 1,706 individuals (1,001 women and 705 men),
have received credit disbursements totalling about Cedis 992 million for developing such activities as
farming, fishing agro-processing, cottage industries, and mixed activities of commercial farming/fishing
including marketing of their produce. A large proportion of the fund was allocated to farming and
agro-processing, important livelihood activities in the wetland sites. For farming activities, the extension
agents of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) assisted in conducting physical inspections of the
farm lands, to assess the proximity to water bodies, susceptibility to erosion, etc. as measures against these
negative effects, and to advise farmers on appropriate cultural practices including use of pesticides and
fertilizers. The fund is 99 percent disbursed at US$397,000 out of the total US$400,000 made available
under the CISF.
In terrns of linking the economic activities with biodiversity activities, the beneficiary groups were
effective in establishing community projects for planting woodlots, forming groups for clearing and
cleaning up sites or waterways, and becoming agents of change in their own communities. As a result,
about 40 acres of tree plantations and woodlots at different sites have been established, five community
task forces are formed to protect breeding marine turtles, their nests and habitats, and over 10 kilometers of
choked river channels and creeks have been cleared to improve water transport, fisheries and crop
production within the Songor site.
Loans were to be repaid over one year within the project period at an interest rate of 20 percent. The
repayment rate is lower than expected since disbursement began in September 1998, averaging 41 percent
as of March 2000, and ranging from zero percent to 96 percent for some groups.  This was due to a
number of factors: (i) initial delays in disbursing the funds, (ii) timing and harvest of the fishing season not
- 12 -



coinciding with the repayment period, (iii) droughts which result in lower crop yield, (iv) unavailability of
natural raw materials (e.g., reeds for mat weaving), which can lead groups to delay the initial purchase of
materials or can stockpiling their product for later sale, and (v) some groups accumulating monthly
installments meant for repayment of the loans in group accounts rather than transferring them to the project
account.
In terms of capacity building, the project helped improve the technical and organizational capabilities
of the community trade associations. Community groups have learnt to integrate environmental issues with
economic activities on the sites and many of these groups have gained great credibility within their districts,
enhancing their ability to make an impact on wetland conservation. Women's groups have been
empowered to take part in decision-making within their communities and their involvement in implementing
community projects. Training provided under the project for basic bookkeeping, management of inventory,
crafts, tree planting, etc., have developed community members' skills, provided opportunities to develop
local entrepreneurship, and enabled some groups to diversify their products for sale, and funded
construction of storage areas.
The CISF's success can be attributed to a number of factors: (i) the close involvement of local
community leaders, administrators and stakeholders at all levels of operation from the beginning to ensure a
smooth operation; (ii) meeting the training needs in terms of basic record keeping for both the field staff of
GWS and GWD as well as the leaders of various community groups concemed; (iii) communication and
promotion to raise awareness on biodiversity conservation and environmental protection issues raised
enthusiasm for such activities. The continuing success of the program and improvement of repayment
records will depend on the combined monitoring of the groups' activities by the WID, DAs, and
Department of Cooperatives combined. To ensure the CISF's continuity once the project closed, it was
proposed that the CISF be transferred under the management of the DAs who are already responsible for
managing the District Rural Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) under the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP).
4. SAKUMO EFFLUENT DISPOSAL
This component is rated satisfactory. It was completed on time and implemented satisfactorily. The
study of the Sakumo lagoon was completed and the outfall funded by this GET grant was constructed in
parallel with overall plant construction under the World Bank's Urban II Project. The GET grant
originally would pay 100 percent of the incremental costs of the outfall up to a pre-fixed amount. The
project has disbursed approximately 92 percent of the allotted funds by June 1995 and construction of the
Tema sewerage treatment plant's ocean outfall was completed around April 1996.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Besides making important contributions to Ghana's environmental sector policies and management at
the governrnent level, the project also made significant contributions to the establishment and strengthening
of institutions and groups involved in the network of environmental conservation, and to the social, equity
aspect and financial benefits of communities. Valuable information on the country's environmental
problems has been generated and disseminated widely through a well-targeted education and public
awareness program extending to the grassroots level. For example:
- 13 -



* Community Impact. The community infrastructure and CISF components of the project built
significant capacity at the community level by providing training to village groups in basic record
keeping, management of a small business, reporting, analysis of local resources, problems and
solutions. Viable economic groups were formed within communities for income generation, and
biodiversity conservation, increased environmental awareness, responsibility in communities for
resource use was introduced. The number of such groups is increasing to the point where DAs, in the
transitional arrangements, are exploring additional sources of funding for the CISF to meet the increase
in demand.  Emerging groups and community-based organizations have leamt to integrate
environmental issues into their economic activities, and opportunities for developing local-level
entrepreneurship has been developed. Womens' groups have been allocated sizeable support.
*  District Assemblies developed linkages with the WD and partner agencies in wetlands management.
*  Site Management Committees (SMCs), which did not exist prior to the project, were formed to
represent the interests of principal stakeholders composed of local government, central government
agencies at the district level, traditional councils, women's groups and community members. SMCs
are mandated to develop site management plans, decide on development of community
infrastrastructure projects, disseminate management decisions regarding the Ramsar sites, assist the
wildlife officers in managing the sites, the education officers in public awareness raising, and
disbursement of the investment support fund. In the new decentralized structure, they will play an
important part of decision-making and representation is expected to expand.
*  The GWS began as a small, loosely structured, national NGO numbering about three to five technical
staff under the "Save the Seashore Birds Project." When the CWMP began, staff who were seconded
to the GWS from the WD transferred to GWS, the core team recruited more staff, and the organization
became more structured and formalized. The project provided support for training for short courses,
funded two MSc. programs, and provided vehicles and equipment for offices. As of May 2000, GWS
has 49 staff, is a well-recognized national NGO capable of outsourcing funds, subcontracts services,
and has an operating budget of about US$200,000/year with an average project size of about $1.5
million/project. Wildlife clubs numbered 700 across the country, most of which occur along the coast,
and membership number about 30,000 children.
_  The project's implementation unit, the WD, has built capacity in a number areas as a result of the
experience gained under the project. Staff of the WD have been exposed to wetlands resources and site
management techniques, administration and computer skills. In their collaboration with the GWS, the
WD site staff were trained by the GWS in identifying and counting the bird species for monitoring.
The WD is now equipped with vehicles and equipment to do monitoring and evaluation in the field.
Under the Bank's Natural Resources Management Project, the WD's financial and administrative
capacity will be funther strengthened.
*  EPA, through its newly developed capacity and the network developed under the Environmental
Resources Management Project of which the CWMP was a component, is now able to develop
environmental policies and programs, monitor environmental problems and provide advice to the
government at national and local levels. The role of EPA has evolved from one of advisory to one of
coordination, regulating, enforcement of compliance and policy implementation as of 1995.
- 14 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Unreliable contractors and management for the construction of staff housing prevented the timely
completion of the lodgings.  The poor performance of contractors delayed civil works. For the staff
housing units at Keta site, the contractor abandoned the site and the contract was terminated and
subsequently reawarded. The contractor for the research center at the Songor site also abandoned the site
and the contract was terminated, but at a time that was too late to reaward to be completed before the
project closing date.    The visitors' centers, funded under the education and public awareness
sub-component, were under construction at Keta, Ada-Foah, Sakumo and Winneba but were later
suspended by the Bank because of poor design and lack of consultation with stakeholders. This was not
completed.
At the start of the project, Government was required to freeze hiring as part of a civil service reform
program for Ghana. This impacted on the project start-up as the WD could not hire personnel for the first
18 months of the project's life.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The slow release of counterpart funds greatly reduced the pace of project implementation and
contributed to slow disbursement.  When funds were released, they were in substantially lower amounts
than requested and budgetted at appraisal. In 1995 - WD had received authorization for less than 25
percent of the required counterpart funding for the project although project management indicated that this
would have a crippling effect on project implementation because of the relatively large (30 percent)
requirement for counterpart funding in the infrastructure and recurrent cost-salaries category. (This
percentage was later changed to 90 percent by the Bank). No counterpart funds were received for 1995,
nor for 1999, the last year of the project. Other years received fluctuating amounts. Counterpart fund
contributions, as a percentage of amounts requested by the project management unit, varied from 12
percent in 1996 to, at most, 49 percent of the amount requested in 1998. Disbursements accelerated in the
final year of the project due to the fact that responsibility for the project transferred from one Ministry to
another (the MLF) where the MLF took an active interest in the CWMP by attending wrap-up meetings
and following up more closely on the project's development. However, by this time it was too late to
budget additional counterpart funds.
One of the fundamental objectives of the project, the gazetting of several protected areas under the
Ramnsar Convention, was delayed significantly, leading to serious concems about achievement of the
project's overall global development objective. Major reasons for the delay were: (i) slow pace of
consultations, especially with traditional leaders and community members, about the proposed Ramsar law
to avoid giving the impression that Government is taking away the land from the owners; and (ii) prolonged
disgareements between WD and the Attorney General's Department on certain aspects of the law.
However, the law was finally approved by Parliament on December 2, 1999.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The initial delays in recruitment of the project Technical Advisor and establishment of the Project
Operations committee which is to include membership from the Game and Wildlife Department and the
EPC have resulted in delays in project start-up activities. Recruitment of the TA and establishment of the
Coastal Wetlands Project Operations Committee (CWMPOC) were crucial activities which had to be
accomplished during the first quarter before the project can go forward. Recruitment of site staff was
delayed by two and a half years into project implementation which then delayed the establishment of a
strong management presence on the wetland sites.  As mentioned earlier, weak coordination and
- 15 -



communication of planning and implementation of the education programs between the WD and the GWS,
insufficient and unprecise job descriptions for site staff led to confusion between the respectives roles of the
WD and GWS education officers, and lack of involvement of WD site officers by the GWS led to
confusion, lack of ownership, and duplication of roles. There was also misunderstanding of the respective
roles and specific responsibilities of the Project Coordinator and the Senior Technical Advisor at the WD
resulting in a lack of coordination of project activities which delayed implementation on a number of major
activities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project closed at an estimated total cost of about US$6.90 million. GET financed SDR4.35
million (US$6.07 million) as of May 31, 2000, and the project disbursed about 85 percent of the originally
approved amount of SDR5.00 million (US$7.20 million). Govermment contribution amounted to about
US$200,000, and joint contributions from communities and their district assemblies (for construction of
KVIP units) amounted to US$919,000.  About SDR 651,000 (US$847,170 equivalent) remains
undisbursed and will be cancelled.  The Community Investment Support Fund disbursed around
US$397,000 out of US$400,000 (99 percent) to 72 groups since funds became available in September
1998.
The GET TF closing date was extended by two years. The rate of project implementation, indicated by
the rate of disbursements, lagged appraisal estimates and was bunched into the later years of the project.
The project's funds were not fully disbursed due to the slow project start up. By December 1998, only 60
percent of the project's funds were disbursed. This was due to several reasons: the delays in recruitment
of key staff in the WD, weak communication between the Project Coordinator (PC) and the Financial
Controller which meant that the PC was not well-informed about disbursement decisions regarding the
project, slow processing of procurement and disbursement documents by EPA due to heavy work load on
its staff, the lack of familiarity with Bank disbursement and procurement procedures by WD officials who
send the SOE documents to EPA, and the SOE filing system not well organized. During the final year of
project implementation, disbursement accelerated with 25 percent more disbursed by project closing. This
was due to the transfer of responsibility for the CWMP from Ministry of Environment, Science and
Technology (EPA) to the Ministry of Lands and Forestry, where the latter showed an active interest in
project activities.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely, with further donor support. There are indications that some of the project's
original activities could continue based on the transitional arrangements, e.g., some of the monitoring
activities, others such as the education an public awareness activities, and the site management activities of
the WD. Furthermore, based on the latest information made available from the WD (see Section 9 -
Partner Comments) a cost center is being made available in the Government's Medium-term Expenditure
Framework for wetlands conservation. There are also indications that other conservation partners such as
Conservation International and the Netherlands Government are interested in collaborating or supporting
activities sponsored by the National Wetlands Conservation Strategy. There are some indications of
interest also from the private sector in participating in wetland site conservation. Apart from the Panbros
Salt company which has reserved some of the salt ponds for the use of birds and is a member of the SMCs,
the Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. has provided funds for activities for protecting sea turtles, and the
Coca-Cola company has made resources available for supporting a monitoring program at the Sakumo site.
Some of the CWMP's activities are being supported under the ongoing Natural Resources Management
Project.
- 16 -



On a national level, the National Lands Policy addresses wetlands issues, and the national conservation
strategy provides an indication of the serious consideration given by the Government of Ghana to its
conservation issues. The Government's non-allocation of counterpart funds was a setback to the project,
and the delay in the gazettment of the sites cast doubts on Government ownership of the project as well as
its long-term conmmitment to the objectives of the CWMP. However, the Government has provided other
indications of commitment to conservation in the past through such actions as: (i) including over 5 percent
of the national territory within the system of protected areas including the five wetland sites, (ii) fomulating
the action plan to improve management of current protected areas under the Bank's Forest Resources
Management Project, (iii) including a Coastal Zone Management Plan in the EAP for land use and
development planning to maintain the ecological integrity of the coastal region; and (iv) gazettement of the
coastal wetland sites to ensure continued wetland conservation under legal statute, and in general providing
Ghana with a legal basis for handling conservation issues which, prior to the project, did not exist.
Presently, Government has made provisions for the annual salaries and basic recurrent costs of the WD
stafl and all the CWMP staff are retained on site for carrying on project activities. Although the sufficient
counterpart funds may not be the only indicator of commitment, the WD, with the support of the Bank,
could have lobbied more forcefully with its Ministry for its funds, particularly when the government is
faced with competing development priorities in other sectors such as urban and transport.
The WD will need further support to build its capacities to handle its new mandate under the MLF as a
division which promotes community activities and a collaborative approach rather than its traditional
policing role. Much has been achieved through the education and public awareness component which has
laid the foundation for changing the perspectives of future generations on the use of natural resources such
as the wetlands. It also contributed to the concepts of natural resource management and adaptation of new
approaches for resource use, and created a sense of ownership in managing and monitoring the use of those
resources by changing negative practices and attitudes of communities living in these areas, and promoted
the formation of community groups for the purpose of solving some of the wetland problems.
Under the investment support component, the project built strong community adhesion to the project
goals and approach, addressed the priority needs of the community, promoted community unity, fostered
strong leadership within the groups, and developed their capacity to undertake viable income-generating
activities, and developed important skills in the communities. The CISF also established a new generation
of community-based organizations that are financially viable and growing in importance. It has increased
participation in community activities and generated interest in sustainable environmental management.
Environmental management is a long-term objective requiring a long-term commitment spanning at
least 10-15 years. In the short-tern, modest results are to be expected, particularly in countries where such
management or priorities did not previously exist.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Ecological nonitoring has been contracted to three Ghanaian partner research institutions - the Water
Resources institute, Ghana Wildlife Society and the Zoology Department of the University of Ghana. Once
the contracts ended in December 1998, a new arrangement was established. The underlying principle was
to function as a partnership rather than the previous contractual arrangements. The institutions agreed with
the WD to implement a revised monitoring program during 1999 which would be mainstream into their
institutional programs and the activities would be carried out on a cost sharing basis with the WD. The
institutions will fund staff costs while the WD will fund recurrent costs. The number of monitoring
parameters, frequency of data collecion, will be reduced, to encourage site wardens to assist in data
collection. To meet the need for effective administrative and technical coordination of the monitoring
- 17 -



program, a computerized database would be set up to ensure that the WD can understand and keep abreast
of the results of the monitoring program. Researchers felt that this was necessary to to develop the
technical capacity of the WD staff.
Education and Public Awareness. The community outreach and education program which was under
contract with the GWS expired in December 1998. Since then, the WD has been implementing part of this
program along with the active participation of the DAs. Continued operation of the education program on
a cost sharing basis has been negotiated between these two institutions. Membership in the wildlife clubs
has grown and, consequently, GWS is experiencing funding shortages to the point where it is unable to
fulfill all of its commitments to the clubs. In the meantime, GWS has continued the education program on
a scaled down basis. The Water Resources Commission (WRC) will absorb two components of the
CWMP, (i) public awareness and environmental education, and (ii) restoration and rehabilitation of the
waterways, which could be covered under the umbrella of future WRC activities to be funded under
DANIDA (Denmark) assisted programs.
Community Investment Support Fund (CISF). Transitional arrangements have been made which will
link management of the CISF to the DRIF, a fund that is being managed by the District Assemblies under
the Bank's VIP. The DRIF provides funding to rural communities for small-scale infrastructure projects
and private goods (income-generating activities). However, to avoid confusion in the management and
accountability of the DRIF and the CISF, separate bank accounts would be kept for the two funds at the
DA level. Furthermore, there will be arrangements for the beneficiary groups to deposit payment directly
into project accounts at the DA level. The arrangements is designed to follow the decentralized structure of
governance being implemented by the GoG and will incorporate the elements of participatory evaluation.
Under these arrangements, the district-level fund will be established by each DA to finance small-scale
infrastructure and micro-enterprises by the community groups and associations. A district-level committee
made up of representatives of local NGOs and local communities will form the decision-making body of the
DRIF. The day-to-day management of the DRIF would be entrusted to a District Finance Officer. To
ensure that the fund is used with environmental conservation in mind, the WD staff at each district should
be made a member of the DRIF Committee, and that the WMU maintains a monitoring role over the funds
to ensure it is used for the intended purposes. The VIP will be implemented over six years, which will give
communities sufficient time to consolidate the projects already begun and fund any new projects planned.
If the fund can be implemented under these premises of ownership and participation, the merger stands a
good chance of being sustainable.
A cost center has been created within the Government's Medium-term Expenditure Framework for
Wetlands Conservation. The salaries and basic recurrent costs are provided for annually and the CWMP
staff are retained to continue project activities on the sites.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. ] Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank provided
adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount during the lending phase to enable it to carry
out the necessary preparation work for the project.The missions were adequately staffed with the
appropriate technical skills to carry out the address the issues and GEF concerns.  The project was
innovative and its objectives were clear, and consistent with the Bank's environmental conservation and
development strategies in Ghana at the time. The project also benefited from strong ownership, vision and
energy by the precursor to the Ghana Wildlife Society (GWS), and from prior work done over six years
- 18-



with the support of international NGOs.
Risks. The project correctly identified the risk that recognition of the five coastal wetland sites under
the Ramsar Convention may not be achieved, although it wrongly assumed that this risk could be
minimized by the availability of project funds for other activities such as site management, public
awareness campaigns and the community participation in maintaining the ecology of the sites. Availability
of project funds did not shorten the significant delay with which the gazettment of the sites was approved
by the Government. In this respect, the project overestimated the level of Government ownership of the
project as well as the availability of counterpart funds.
7.2 Supervision:
Although site visits were carried out on a regular basis and the budget and skills mix during missions
was appropriate for regular monitoring, it failed to address the more persistent problems with stronger
measures at the Bank's disposal. As such, it is rated as unsatisfactory.
During the project's implementation period, supervision was moved to the field and the quality of
project supervision and problem-solving improved, particularly in the procurement and fiduciary aspects.
This did acccelerate project implementation and conservation efforts which had been delayed for two years.
QAG rated the financial management aspect of Bank supervision as "1", noting that the practice of having
the project's financial statements and audits co-signed by both the controller and the director of the
implementing agency as one to be encouraged. Supervision efforts achieved good results in 1998 and 1999
with respect to financial management and the EPA's role in this respect has been strengthened. Client
relations, particularly with the environmental community was rated as "excellent" by the QAG.
However, supervision could have been stronger in other respects, for example, the project could have
benefitted from more management attention to the generic issues which needed to be solved at the
country-wide or sector level. Supervision missions were unable to address adequately the constant funding
shortages from the government despite regular letters reminding the government of its commitments in this
respect. Furthermore, supervision ratings for overall implementation performance did not realistically
reflect the problems experienced until much later into the project's life, which contributed to the lack of
remedial actions on the part of the Bank. At the time of the MTR, the Bank had the opportunity to
restructure the project to tum it around, and to add specialists to the supervision teams to address
particularly issues (e.g., legal, judicial, social). During the later stages of the project, the Bank's
management decided to extend the closing dates based on good indications that the preparations that were
in place will lead to the achievement of project objectives within the extension period.  Stronger
consideration should have been given to the explicit conditionality for extending the closing date in order to
remedy existing problems. The QAG reports speculated that because this was a GEF Grant, it may not
have attracted the same monitoring or scrutiny from management as regular IDA operations. The Bank's
proposal to convert the undisbursed balance of the grant into a trust fund to fund project activities over the
long term was considered inappropriate because implemrentation was not progressing at a satisfactory pace
at the time.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is unsatisfactory. Although the Bank's perfornance at project design
and appraisal was innovative since it was conducted in a particularly participative manner involving all
stakeholders, it underestimated the task ahead and overestimated Government anad the implementing
agency's capacity to implement the project activities. As to supervision, while missions were carried out
regularly and with an adequate skills mix for routine monitoring, they were not sufficient to deal with the
more difficult legal, policy and government performance issues in the country which were slowing down
- 19 -



implementation. Supervision missions may not have confronted the counterpart funds issue, in part
because there were other indications of Governnent commitment to environmental management, and in part
because of the overall budget constraints owing to the macroeconomic environment. QAG found that the
Bank's management should have taken stronger remedial measures to ensure compliance and attainment of
the project's long term development objective by recommending restructuring of the project or suspension
of disbursements.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At preparation, the GoG's and other stakeholders' performance was highly satisfactory. The project
benefitted from a dynamic and energetic environmental movement in Ghana which produced one of Africa'
s first, and best, NEAPs. In addition, GWS, a well-regarded national NGO in the country, was credited
with the original project concept, having made a strong case for community-based conservation efforts
along Ghana's coastal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
GoG's performance was unsatisfactory. Although the Govermment showed a strong national sense of
ownership in the project, a strong political will to tackle the problems identified, and commitment to
decentralization and public sector reform, counterpart funding throughout the duration of the project was
highly unsatisfactory. The project suffered from chronic counterpart fund shortages. During the last year
of the project (1999), no counterpart funds were received by the project from a Government approved
budget of about Cedi 71.0 million. The project has been unable to make full payments for goods and
supplies which relied on counterpart funds. This exacerbated an already deteriorating situation where from
1996 to 1997, the project received an average of 14 percent of the amount budgeted, and nothing in 1995.
This meant that the project will be indebted to several suppliers following the project's closing. Overall,
the project has received about US$0.2 million (18 percent) of the US$1.1 million equivalent requested by
the implementing agency as Government contribution to the project. The project's history of inadequate
counterpart funding could threaten the sustainability of activities and capacities built up in the institutions
over the life of the project if it is not resolved.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the WD was marginally unsatisfactory. Although it experienced some difficulties
initially, the WD amended the shortfalls quickly once the Bank's supervision missions identified the causes
and made recommendations for improvements. In terms of financial management, the agency received
weak support from EPA whose technical capacity needed to be improved. For example, bill preparation
and payments by the accounting unit of EPA was insufficient to enable it to effectively plan and monitor
payment requests, e.g., the GWD had several unpaid bills over C300 million were due to the GWD at a
time when the SA had a balance of over US$80,000 (C180 million equivalent). The performance of the
partner implementing agency, GWS was highly satisfactory. GWS consistently remained dedicated to its
tasks and usually met or exceeded program targets that were set. It demonstrated commitment and was
well experienced in executing the project activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the staff at the WD, GWS, district assemblies and EPA levels were satisfactory.
Inexperience in handling certain aspects of the management and coordination work caused initial delays and
some confusion, but actions were taken to amend them. The GoG's performance was unsatisfactory in
terms of release of funds and slow pace in the gazettment of the Ramsar sites.
- 20 -



Audits. Project accounts were audited regularly every year and the audits showed an adequate
compliance with the administrative, accounting and financial requirements from the beginning of the project
period. The audit report and management letter of auditors for the 1997 fiscal year audit was submitted
ahead of schedule, and IDA's review did not identify any issues to be addressed in particular. The final
audit for the project following its closing is in progress.
Compliance with Legal Covenants was generally satisfactory. The main shortfalls were in the long
delays in establishing the gazettment of the Ramsar sites and the partial compliance with the adoption of a
detailed design and management plan for the education center at Songor.
8. Lessons Learned
* Close involvement of stakeholders, community members, and administrators, at all levels of
implementation is important in building support for and ensuring the sustainability of an operation
(e.g., the CISF); measures to access social development outcomes need to be put in place during project
implementation so that feedback can be used while the project is still active.
* The composition of supervision missions should have been more flexible, adjusting the specializations
and skills mix as needed to deal with persistent issues, e.g. legal expertise to deal with the delay in
gazetting the sites, or social science expertise to develop a suitable methodology for monitoring
community-level trends and their relationships to sustainable use of wetland resources.
i Poor performance by central government agencies was tolerated in order to channel funds to a dynamic
and committed NGO. To avoid this in the future, the Bank should focus its efforts in working directly
with such NGOs for field-based activities while limiting central government agency initiatives to a
clearly-defined policy agenda, handled through a different mechanism. With the experience gained
under the CWMP and the basic framework in place for promoting environmental awareness,
management and conservation, future consideration should be given to providing GWS with a
medium-sized project under the GEF. Such a project allows an NGO to submit project concepts which
are no more than US$1.0 million in GEF financing, are smaller in scope and can be implemented
quickly and efficiently, targeting a narrower range of activities than that covered under the CWMP.
The NGO would also be independently implementing the project in the field.
*   Environmental management is a long-term objective requiring long-term commitment spanning 10-15
years. In the short-term, modest results are to be expected, particularly in countries where such
management or priorities did not previously exist. Therefore, consideration should be given to
continuing to provide support for the core activities of the coastal wetlands sites under the ongoing
Natural Resources Management Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Editorial comments from the implementing agency, the Wildlife Division (Forestry Commission) have been
incorporated into the ICR. Other comments follow and a copy is available in project files.
Letter dated June 26, 2000, from Mr. N.K Ankudey, Executive Director (Ag.), addressed to Ms. Patience
Mensah, World Bank Office, Accra. Ref Ghana: Coastal Wetlands Management Project
(GET-TF-28519-GH) - Implementation Completion Report.
"Thank you for your letter of June 20, 2000 which forwarded a copy of the above-mentioned report for our
- 21 -



comments. We take this opportunity to congratulate the authors for an excellent report.
In line with your request as contained in the above letter, we provide the following comments on the report.
It is agreed that the Project had a slow take off and faced many implementation problems. As you know,
the Wildlife Division (WD) has been a para-military organisation with a command and control attitude
towards protected area and natural resource management. This is the environment in which the Coastal
Wetlands Management Project whose main feature is collaborative management was launched. Naturally,
it took some time to effect attitudinal change within WD and also build mutual trust between WD and the
Communities to ensure smooth project implementation. Coupled with this was the government ban on
employment, which did not allow us to recruit for the first eighteen months of project life.
We do not, therefore, hold the same view with the assessment that its sustainability is unlikely nor do we
agree that the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. The reasons for the contention are given below:
(a)    At the start of the Coastal Wetlands Management (CWMP) very few staff members of WD knew
anything about wetlands. Within the Project life almost all members of WD staff have become
conversant with wetlands, their functions, attributes and benefits and the objectives of the Project.
Nationally, wetlands and their issues have become a household word in Ghana.
(b)    Within the Project life wetland issues have become enshrined in the National Lands Policy.
(c)    "Managing Ghana's Wetlands: A National Wetlands Conservation Strategy" document has been
developed and adopted by Government. At a recent workshop organised in Ghana by Wetlands
International in May 2000, to train wetlands practitioners in the West African sub region on
Wetlands Policy Formulation, it was clearly revealed that only three (3) African states have either
a Wetlands Policy or Strategy and Ghana is one such state.
(d)    Unlike most countries whose Ramsar sites are located in areas already designated as protected
areas of one sort or the other, Ghana's coaster Ramsar Sites are found on privately owned land.
Our "Wetlands Management (Ramsar Sites) Regulations L.I. 1659, 1999, were therefore crafted to
make it possible for government and communities manage the sites collaboratively. The law
further provides a platform for the enactment of local level by-laws to address wetlands
conservation issues peculiar to each locality and also give legal backing to traditional conservation
measures. These innovative approaches were pioneered in Ghana and were facilitated by the
CWMP.
(e)    Very substantial capacity in wetlands conservation has been built within the country, W)D and at
local community levels. Daily pronouncements in the media by the wider Ghanaian public on
wetland issues clearly attest to this.
The above named hallmarks chalked within a matter of seven years of a project life is no mean
achievement. It will therefore not be fair to assess the performance of the key actors who made them
happen as unsatisfactory.
On the question of sustainability, perhaps a review of the following will help elucidate our initiatives to
achieve sustainability:
(i)    On project closure WID succeeded in creating a Cost Centre within the GoG Medium Term
-22 -



Expenditure Framework for Wetlands Conservation. Salaries and basic recurrent costs are being
provided for annually.
(ii)   The entire CWMP staff are retained on site to continue the activities of the Project.
(iii)   Efforts have also been made to get other conservation bodies and development partners to help us
continue and expand on what CWMP started. Conservation International (Ghana's) expressed
interest to collaborate with WD on wetlands conservation and encouraging indications of the
Netherlands Government to support in implementing the newly developed National Wetlands
Conservation Strategy when overtures were made to them at the last Ramsar Convention
Conference of Parties in Costa Rica in May 1999, attests to this.
These concrete measures have been taken already and are yielding some positive results since project
closure barely six (6) months ago. A Management Team to lead the implementation of the National
Wetlands Strategy and Action Plan has been formed and this Team will be officially inaugurated during the
public launching of the Strategy sometime in August, 2000.
Sustainability of a closed Project with the above measures already in place cannot be described as
"unlikely" in the least.
... At the time of preparing this report all Computerised and Geographic information databases have been
completed."
(b) Cofinanciers:
No cofinanciers were involved.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Editorial comments from the NGO, the Ghana Wildlife Society have been incorporated into the report. An
extract of the comments which are not editorial follow. The complete list of comments are available in
project files.
Letter dated June 29, 2000, from Mr. Samuel Kofi Nyame, for the Executive Director, Ghana Wildlife
Society, addressed to The World Bank, Ghana Office, Accra. Attention: Ms. Patience Mensah, Re.
Ghana: Coastal Wetlands Management Project (GET-TF-28519-GH) - Implementation Completion
Report.
"I write to acknowledge receipt of the report and to commend you and your team for an excellent work. I
have perused the whole report and found it to be fine except for a few comments as outlined below.
... Your report referred to the Wildlife Clubs as an NGO (later to be known as Ghana Wildlife Society), I
would like to point out that the Wildlife Clubs is the junior wing of the Ghana Wildlife Society and does
not constitute an NGO by itself. So could you effect the change to reflect the true status of the Wildlife
Clubs.
...The statement there implies that wader numbers increased gradually from 1986 to 1998. The statement
would have been accepted if using the total cumulative sightings of waterbirds. The figures quoted
represented the peak counts of the waders during those years (the peak count for 1998 for the Keta site is
96,661 and not 96,670). The total cumulative sightings of the waders were certainly more than the quoted
figures. So I would like the second sentence to read "A report issued by the WD on monitoring and
waterbird statistics in July 1999 indicated that populations of waders and tems remained stable at most of
-23-



the sites, and the the later years (1997, 1998) peak counts have been high in the Keta, Songor and Sakumo
sites. For example, at the Keta site, the peak count of waders increased from about 31,400 in 1986 to
96,661 and tems at the Densu delta site from 4,900 23,184 in 1998.
... However, GWS has recruited Regional Coordinators whose duties among others are to review the
dormant clubs.
... Education and Public Awareness:... implies that th eincrease in the membership of the wildlife clubs is as
a result of the activities of the WD and DAs. This is incorrect. Refer to page 47 point 20 and relfect the
views held by GWS. That part makes it clear that it is the sussessful implementation of the education
programme by GWS that has culminated in the increase in the club membership. So I would like the
sentence ... to read... Membership of the wildlife clubs has grown as a result of GWS activities, and
consequently, is experiencing funding shortages to the point where it is unable to fulfill all of its
commitments to the clubs. In the meantime, GWS has continued the education programme on a scaled
down basis."
10. Additional Information
Studies Included in Proiect
Type of Study                Sites                  Purpose                     Status
Baseline studies:
(a)  . Limnology              Three smaller       Baseline studies to identify  Studies for all five sites
sites: (Muni-      major factors acting on       completed.
. Aquatic Ecology       Pomadze, Sakumo,   coastal ecosystems; develop
Densu)             data on present productivity  Reports published.
Ilydrology                                 of the systems; identify
options to mitigate negative
. Plant Ecology                             impacts from present or
potential future activities;
. Lagoon Fisheries                          develop models affecting
system stability; provide basis
. Soil erosion/Land                         for interventions for
degradation                   Two larger sites:    improvement of wetland
(Keta, Songor)      productivity. Basic survey
(b)  . Aquatic ecology                            and collection of inventory
|   Terrestrial ecology                     data to formulate
development and management
* Lagoon fisheries                          plans.
| Ornithological Studies -      Keta, Songor        Understand better seasonal   Completed. Report
Waterbird ecology and                             and spatial patterns of      published.
management of coastal                             wetland use by bird species;
wetlands in Ghana.                                provide more accurate data
for sanctuaries.
Status and Development of     Entire coast of     Identify nesting beaches     Completed. Report
marine turtles                Ghana including     within Ransar sites and      published.
the five wetland    coast. Identify requirements
sites              for protection of nesting
beaches and regulation of
turtle harvesting.
- 24 -



Beneficiary and Social Impact    All five sites    Study to assess the impact of    Completed. Findings
Assessment                                         the environmental education  discussed with
and community development    beneficiaries. Report
activities on beneficiaries.  published.
Socio-economics and Land Use   Muni-Pomadze,       Studies forming base for     Completed. Report
for National Wetlands Strategy    Densu, Sakumo    determining socio-economic   submitted.
status of local communities
within sites and formulation
of national wetlands strategy.
Socio-economic Studies        Songor, Keta         Studies focusing on the small    Canceled. Too late to
farming and fishing          use.
communities along sand bar
between lagoons and ocean or
lower catchment area of the
lagoons to provide basic data
on demographic
characteristics, residence and
employment patterns. Input
into annual project monitoring
activities.
Ecological Monitoring         All 5 sites          Results from baseline studies    Monitoring programs
Programs (lagoon fisheries,                        would define requirements for   form part of contractual
water birds, aquatic biology).                     annual monitoring and         arrangements for
formats for annual reporting  monitoring activities
of results.                  between WD and 3
Monitoring includes lagoon   Ghanaian research
fisheries, water birds, water    institutions (zoology
quality, faunal diversity, etc.    dept./Univ. of Ghana,
Water Research Institute,
GWS). Annual reports
have been submitted.
Development Options Study     All 5 sites          Identify environmentally      TOR revised to cover 3
compatible economic          sites. Final output not
development options for the  acceptable for guiding
CWMP to support in the five    proposal identification.
wetland sites.
National Wetlands Strategy    All Ghana's          Review existing wetland       Broad participatory
wetlands including   resources data and identify  process adopted in
the 5 sites         gaps and critical factors     preparing the strategy.
affecting wetlands/constraints   National Wetlands
to improving management      Conservation Strategy
practices. Input into        published and adopted
formulating national strategy  end 1999.
for conservation of the
wetlands.
-25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Water quality and biological indicators of    Ongoing.                       Ongoing.
ecosystem integrity are stable/ improving.
Better understanding and appreciation of the Communities are actively involved with the   Various initiatives and activites linked to,
benefits of improved environmental    project and its goals. Communities    initiated by, or sponsored under the project
management by local residents at the project organized independent cleaning campaigns, have been met with activity participation from
sites                                 task forces to protect wildlife and breeding   the communities and public (e.g., public
grounds, actively participate in conservation  awareness campaigns, festivities, wildlife
activities sponsored by the GWS and WD,  magazine subscriptions, community
are enthusiastic in demanding community   sanitation facility construction, clearance of
infrastructure, demand for the community    waterways, planting of eroded areas and
investment fund is high.              woodlots, regeneration of mangroves, etc.).
Wildlife club activities are carried out and    Membership expected to reach 600 across  Wildlife club memberships reach 700. Due
reaches communities in rural areas and  targeted areas with activities designed to    to GWS ending contract with GWS at project
Ramsar sites in particular.           promote environmental awareness.      closing, some activities had slowed down
due to lack of funds. New arrange- ments
being negotiated with GWS.
Baseline reports are completed and form  Monitoring activities contracted to three  Arrangements established for cost sharing
basis for monitoring activities.      Ghanaian research institutions.       between institutions participating in
monitoring activities.
Legislative and administrative actions taken  Draft Li for the legal establishment of the    Gazettment of Ramsar sites approved by
to establish legal entity of Ramsar sites and  sitesto be submitted to Parliament for  Parliament December 2, 1999.
promote protection of site habitat and  approval. By-laws complementing the LI on
inhabitants.                          conservation and use of the wetlands are
being reviewed by legal committee of the
DAs concemed and will be enacted. A draft
wetlands strategy is being prepared.
National Wetlands Conservation Strategy    Draft strategy to be finalized and approved by National Wetlands Conservation Strategy
reviews existing data on wetiand resources  the MLF.                        established and published by MLF.
and identifies gaps in knowledge of critical
factors affecting improved management
practices.
Output Indicators:
Project operations committee and site  POC and SMCs established at 5 sites,  No change.
management committees established.    functioning regularly and regular meetings of
SMCs held. Role for POC in project
management is clear for decisions to be
taken. Membership in SMCs expanding to
include representation from sites.
Completion of baseline studies. Establish   Studies completed and recommendations for No change.
monitoring activities based on        monitoring have been established into work
recommendations                       programs. National and community seminars
held. Program design for monitoring
activities approved. Studies and training
completed. Annual reports of results are
produced.
-26 -



Establish extension/community liaison  All personnel recruited and on-site. GWS    No change.
for: Education programs, GWS          liaison officers also posted at sites for
contract/wildlife clubs               education programs and activities. Wildlife
club activities carried out regularly as
membership grows often exceeding targets.
Ongoing community activities (cleanup
campaigns, children's theater, turtle task
forces.)
Complete boundary surveys, site        Some planting at Sakumo site and plantings Markers and signboard erected at all sie
demarcation, border planting          in selected locations only.            locations, including some logos and signs in
local languages. Total area covered - 1,685
km2.
Construction of habitat infrastructure  8 observation posts constructed, habitat    50 partitions for establishing roosting islands
(observation posts, roosting islands, access enhancements, roosting islands, etc.  at Sakumo and Densu, community task
trails, habitat enhancements, staff lodging,  established, staff lodging completed at most forces formed to protect breeding grounds
education centers, etc.)              sites.                                 for wildlife, tree plantations established,
clearance of waterways initiated.
Infrastructure investment as part of  Projects for infrastructure completed   84 latrines completed by 10/99.
community development efforts         following consultation with communities  Communities organized regular cleanups at
regarding their needs.                some of the sites.
Conduct Development Options study     Study completed and was to be linked with   No change.
community investment program.
Establish Pilot community investment fund.  Criteria for eligibility established, review  72 community group investments completed
process initiated, community projects  with 99 percent of fund disbursed.
ongoing.                               Biodiversity activities by communities include
clearance of waterways, mangrove
regeneration, establishing woodlots, with
plantings in: Sakumo - 15 acres, Songor -
34 acres, Muni-Pomadze - 10 ares, Keta - 75
acres.
Contruction of ocean outlet for Tema   Ocean outlet pipe constructed and discharge No change.
Sewerage treatment plant at Sakumo     is directed to sea rather than lagoon.
Lagoon.
End of project
-27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Com onent (in US$ million  uivalent)
Program Management                                       2.20             1.86            85
Site Demarcation and Management                          3.60             2.97            83
Investment Support                                       0.50             0.40            80
Sakumo Effluent Disposal                                 0.40             0.37            93
Total Baseline Cost                                      6.70             5.60
Physical Contingencies                                  0.50             0.40            80
Price Contingencies                                     1.10             0.90            82
Total Project Costs                 8.30             6.90
Total Financing Required                 8.30             6.90
Pro-ect Costs by Procurement Arranements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
v>}v~~~~~~~~~t h er                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                      0.50         2.50          0.00         0.00          3.00
(0.40)       (2.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.60)
2. Goods                      1.00          0.20         0.50         0.00          1.70
.______________________      (1.00)        (0.20)       (0.30)       (0.00)        (1.50)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         1.50         0.00           1.50
Consultants and Training     (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.50)        (0.00)        (1.50)
4. Investment Support         0.00          0.00         0.60          0.00         0.60
Fund
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.50)       (0.00)        (0.50)
Incremental Recurrent         0.00          0.00         1.50          0.00         1.50
Costs                        (0.00)        (0.00)       (1 .10)       (0.00)        (1 .10)
Total                      1.50          2.70         4.10          0.00          8.30
_ _ __   (1.40)   (2.40)       (3.40)        (0.00)        (7.20)
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                      0.50          1.68         0.00         0.00          2.18
(0.38)       (1.46)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.84)
2. Goods                      0.17          0.76         0.80          0.00          1.73
(0.17)        (0.76)       (0.54)       (0.00)        (1.47)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         2.01          0.00         2.01
Consultants and Training     (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.01)       (0.00)         (2.01)
4. Investment Support         0.00          0.00         0.50          0.00         0.50
Fund
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.41)       (0.00)        (0.41)
- 28 -



Incremental Recurrent            0.00           0.00           0.48           0.00           0.48
Costs                           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.34)         (0.00)         (0.34)
Total                         0.67           2.44           3.79           0.00           6.90
(0.55)         (2.22)        (3.30)         (0.00)          (6.07)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods (vehicles, equipment and materials) to be procured through national shopping,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
government units.
Project Financing by Component in US$ million equ       .vil Xnt
Percentage of Appraifa1
.- ~     ~_                                                           _ _ .D -ov :            QJF.t C  .1;    
IDA                                      i CF- DA  vt  C.)A   Gov__
Program Management       2.40       0.35      0.00       2.28      0.05               95.0   14.3   0.0
Site Demarcation and      3.75      0.57                 3.00      0.05               80.0   8.8    0.0
Management
Investment Support        0.55      0.10      0.00       0.41      0.05      0.00     74.5   50.0   0.0
Sakumo Effluent Disposal    0.45    0.08                 0.36      0.05               80.0   62.5   0.0
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a)Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performanc Raing
(eg. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)          Implementation         Development
Month/Year       Count         Spectalty                             Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/90                              6    IML, ISOC, IECN,                           S                    S
2ENV, 1DM
05/91                              6    IML, IECN, IENV (pollution                 S                    S
specialist), I ENV, 2DM
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/92                              4    1ML, ISOC, IECN, IECL                      S                    S
08/92                                                                              S                    S
Supervision
05/93                              3   1ENB, AE, ICOF(ODA)                         S                    S
01/94                              8   IAE, IPO, IEN, IENL, IFO,                   S                    S
IAG, IAN
11194                              3   IENB, 1AE, IPO
06/95                              2   I EN3, I PO                                 S                    S
04/96                              3   1PO, 1AE, IENB                              S                    S
10/96 (MTR)                        3   1ENB, ICD, IPO                              S                    S
05/97                               S   IPO, IPROC, IFA, IENB, IRF                 S                    S
11/97                              5   1PO, IPROC, IFA, 1ENB, IRD                  S                    S
05/98                               6   IPO, IPROC, IFA, IER, 1ENB,                U                    S
IEN
10/98                              6   IPO, IPROC, IFA, 1RF, 1ENB,                 U                    S
lEC
01/99                              5   IAE, IPO, IFA, IPROC, IRF                   U                    S
03/99                              5   INRM, ISOP, IPROC, lFA,                     U                    S
1RF
10/99                              6   1AE, ISOP, lFA, IPROC, IRF,                 U                    S
IOA
ICR
10/99                              6    IAE, ISOP, IFA, IPROC,                     U                    S
IRF, IOA
AE      Agricultural Economist                               FA       Financial Analyst/Financial Management Specialist
AG      Agriculturalist                                      FO       Forestry Specialist
AN      Agronomist                                           ML       Mission Leader
COF     Cofmancier Representative (organization)             OA      Operations Analyst
CD      Community Development Specialist                     PO       Projects Officer
DM      Data Management Specialist                           PROC    Procurement Specialist
ECL     Ecologist                                            RD       Rural Development Specialist
ECN     Economist                                            RF       Community/Rural Finance Specialist
ENB     Environmental Biodiversity Specialist                SOC      Sociologist
ENL     Environmental Specialist (land and water management)  SOP     Senior Operations Officer
ENV     Environmentalist
(b) Staff:
- 31 -



Stage o<f Pjc ycle0 i;; n'                ActalLaes l0 Esti::, a
Identification/Preparation             23.9                       59.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                  23.6                       65.6
Supervision                           114.7                      205.0
ICR                                     14.2                      35.4
Total                                  177.7                     365.9
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
RI Physical                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
I Financial                                 OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
M Environmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
ER Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Gender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)
E Private sector development               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
n Other (Please specify)
Gender: The CISF targetted assistance to the poorest in the village communities, hence most beneficiaries
targetted were women. In all, 72 groups of micro-enterprises numbering 1,706 individuals (1,001 women
and 705 men), have received credit disbursements totalling about Cedis 992 million for developing such
activities as farming, fishing agro-processing, cottage industries, and mixed activities of commercial
farming/fishing including marketing of their produce. The activities funded include: Fishing, mainly men (
7 groups); food processing (kenkey, gari, fish-smoking/drying) involving mostly women (25 groups);
cottage industry (mats, bags, batik, tie-dye), women (5 groups); food marketing, men and women (3
groups; farming, men and women (28 groups); and mixed activity (fishing, farming, marketing), men and
women (4 groups). Women's groups are also represented in the local Site Management Committees.
Private Sector Development: GWS is considered private sector and its capacity increased and was
strengthened during the course of the project.
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS   *U   OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS * u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS   Ou  O HU
I Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   * u   O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS  * u  O HU
Implementing agency performance for the WD is marginally unsatisfactory, and for the GWS, satisfactory.
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Mid-Term Review Report, December 18, 1996.
Quality Assurance Group Review: Final Report, February 23, 1998.
Quality Assurance Group: Rapid Supervision Assessment, July 16, 1999.
BorroweRs Contribution, full report, March 2000.
Beneficiary and Social Impact Assessment Studies, January 2000.
"Managing Ghana's Wetlands: A National Wetlands Conservation Strategy," Ministry of Lands and Forests,
1999.
Official Notification from the Office of Parliament dated December 10, 1999, that the Wetland
Management (Ramsar Sites) Regulations, 1999, L.I. 1659, has been passed.
Comments on the ICR from the Wildlife Division (Forestry Commission), by letter dated June 26, 2000.
Comments on the ICR received from the Ghana Wildlife Society, by letter dated June 29, 2000.
Maps: Coastal Wetland Sites - IBRD 23746
Agro-ecological Zones - IBRD 23827R
- 35 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The study was commissioned to assess the impact of two of the four main components of the coastal
Wetlands Management Project (CWMP), namely, the Public Awareness and Education Component and the
Community Development Component. The study was conducted over a period of six weeks in November
and December 1999.
For the Public Awareness and Education Component the study sought to answer the following
questions:
*   how relevant were the objectives of the component to the overall project success?
*   what programmes did the Ghana Wildlife Society (GWS) formulate to promote ccommunity
empowerment and how were they implemented?
*  to what extent has the programme enhanced awareness and empowered local residents and the
public at large about ecological and economic values of the wetland resources?
*   What has been the impact of the component on the society?
For the Community Development Component, the study considered the following issues:
*  to what extent were community members involved in the design and implementation of various
types of infrastructures under the programme?
*   what impacts have the infrastructural development programme had on the socio-cultural
conditions of the beneficiaTy communities?
*   what activities did the community investment support fund (CISF) support and what impact
has such support had on the socio-economic conditions of the beneficiaries?
*  were the arrangements for loan disbursement and repayment appropriate and effective?
*   how effective was the training programme for the beneficiaries of the CISF?
Answers to these study questions were sought through:
*  review of secondary information, project documents, progress reports, files, etc.
*   interviews (focus group discussions) in 14 beneficiary communities (involving more than 200
persons)
*   discussions with traditional/opinion leaders in the communities
*   interviews with district assembly officials
*   discussions with project staff (including past project staff from the GWS and Site Management
Committee Members)
- 36 -



* discussions with the concerned officials of other relevant institutions (MLF, WD, FSD, EPA,
and the World Bank).
It is noted that the assessing the impact of a project just at the end of the implementation period does
not provide the real picture of the possible influence of the project. At the same time it is acknowledged
that the impact of the project extends beyond the target groups to a larger target population and unintended
targets as well. However, for time constraints, the scope of this assessment is limited to the target groups
only.
FINDINGS
Public Awareness and Education Program
In terms of performance, the GWS achieved and in many instances exceeded the targets set for the
public awareness and education program. In particular, the formation of wildlife clubs exceeded the
anticipated targets by over 60 percent. Thus, using the wildlife clubs as a tool for public awareness
creation, the GWS was able to penetrate several schools with the conservation message and this forms a
good basis for a future environmentally aware society.
The GWS developed functional linkages with other organizations in the execution of the educational
component of the project, however, the extent of involvement varied. In general, the participation of the
various stakeholders in the planning, execution, funding and monitoring of the awareness campaign was
weak. This has therefore weakened the continuity and sustainability of the public awareness and education
aspect of the program. Consequently, following the withdrawal of the GWS, the site wardens have had
little basis for continuity but have had to redesign their own programs to continue the education.
In general terms the educational campaign has contributed to:
o   increased public awareness and understanding of the benefits of new approaches to management
of wetlands;
*  changing the negative communal attitudes towards wetland resources;
*  creating local ownership of wetland resources brought about by genuine participation and influence
of all key stakeholders in decision-making;
*  empowering local communities in the management and utilization of wetland resources; and
*  the emergence of community-based organizations to be involved in the management of wetland
resources.
However, the extent of contribution at the different sites varied with the Songor and Muni-Pomadze
sites receiving the most impact.
With regard to the training program offered by the GWS the Society and to a lesser extent the WD
benefited more than the other partners in the CWMP did. For these two institutions, the training program
contributed in:
*  strengthening institutional capacity and inter-institutional networking;
*  transferring technology and/or developing new technologies/skills in wetland management;
*   increasing knowledge and awareness of environmental issues;
*   improving project design and management capabilities.
-37 -



However, at the community level the training program did not provide any local capacity for ensuring
sustainability. The focus of any continuing program should therefore be on building local capacity for
wetlands management.
Community Development Program
Two aspects of the community development program were the infrastructural development and the
Community Investment Support Fund (CISF).
Infrastructural Development
1. Infrastructure development under the project concentrated on the construction of places of convenience
and promotion of periodic environmental clean-up campaigns.  In all 84 toilet facilities were
constructed and over 85 percent were in use during the study.
2. Community involvement in the infrastructural development was limited to the provision of land, some
limited monetary contribution and unskilled labor at the initial stages but later all construction was
contracted out.
3. The Site Management Committee which are instruments for community involvement in the decision
making and management of the sites is dominated by government officials and there are no clear
feedback mechanisms for information flow from the SMC to the communities.
4. In terms of effectiveness, equity, appropriateness and responsiveness of the infrastructure to the
community needs the community development component was very positive. However, these were not
always adequate to meet community needs. Similarly, the approach of contracting out the construction
did not always engender community ownership.
Community Investment Support Fund
1. Processing and preparation of community groups for the Community Investment Support Fund for the
support of micro-enterprises started in 1997. The bulk of disbursement was only made in 1999. As at
October 1999, 72 groups numbering 1,706 individuals (60% of which are women) within the five
wetlands sites have benefited from the fund.
2. As at the end of October 1999, a total of Cedis 991,688,401 had been disbursed to the 72 groups (an
equivalent of $397,000 (at 1998 rates). This represents a disbursement of 99% of the total $400,000
allocated for the community support fund.
3. Farming and food processing (particularly fish processing) from 78% of the activities for which the
funds have been applied, with cottage industries, fishing and food marketing being the rest of the
activities.
4. Group management of the credit has been excellent and it is apparent that an initial training in record
keeping and financial management provided for the beneficiaries has had a moderate degree of impact.
However, loan repayment is far behind schedule due to a number of factors including drought and
timing of repayment which is at variance with the seasons when beneficiaries can make payment.
5. Since most of the credit was received only a few months before the conduct of the study, it was
considered too early to determine the impact. Nevertheless, the CISF is generally seen by beneficiaries
as appropriate and meeting their felt needs. In particular, the provision of the credit enhanced the
capacity of the groups for environmental management and has empowered women to take part in
decision-making and strengthened their involvement in the implementation of community projects. The
fund has also raised environmental awareness among the target groups and increased the level of
sustainability of activities in the Ramsar sites.
- 38 -



6. In terms of the management of funds, most beneficiaries expressed misgivings about the management
of the funds through the District Assemblies. Many people interviewed would rather have the funds
managed the same way it is done now. Respondents suggested that if the DAs must necessarily
manage it, then the WD must be made members of the DRIF committee and a separate account kept
for the CISF.
In general, the community development aspect of the CWMP has been the most tangible aspect of the
project that the communities identify with. It has been the driving force for the tremendous support the
project enjoys at community level presently.
General Impact of the Public Awareness and Education and the Community Development Components
of the CWMP
Based on three criteria of ecology, socio-culture and general environmental conditions, the impact of
the two components were assessed for each of the sites.
* For the ecological factors the issues of maintenance of the ecosystem and improvement of species
richness were considered.
* For the socio-cultural factors issues considered included effective local management of wetland
resources, people's linkage of the management of the wetland resources to their welfare and the
local people's acknowledgement of their rights and responsibilities to the management of the
resources.
* Relating to the environmental conditions the activities being undertaken to improve the general
environment of the wetlands were considered as factors for assessment.
Based on these criteria, it was found that there has been a general improvement at all the sites and their
catchment areas.  However, the greatest improvements have occurred within the Songor and
Muni-Pomadze sites. The least impacted site is the Sakumo wetland, followed by the Densu site.
In general, there seems to be a correlation between the extent of urbanization at the sites and the level
of commitment of the people to the project and by extension the level of impact on the population. Thus,
the sites with more rural settings such as Songor and Muni-Pomadze were more committed and more
impacted on than the more urbanized sites. At site levels the impact of the program follows this trend as
well. Thus, with the Keta Complex, the Densu and the Akatsi areas have better impact from the project
that the relatively more developed southem areas. Similarly, within Muni, the Gomoa area shows more
commitment and better impact than the Effutu sections.
-39 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ONE-DAY STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP HELD ON DECEMBER 22. 1999 AT THE
CONFERENCE HALL OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
(STEPRI-CSIR), ACCRA
PRESENT:
Sixty-three (63) participants (refer to attached Participants List) including individuals and representatives of
major stakeholder organisations and community groups took part in the workshop.
GOAL:
The goal of the workshop was to evaluate the Coastal Wetlands Management Project (CWMP) and assess
means of sustaining the Project.
OPENING:
The workshop, which was chaired by Prof. A. A. Oteng-Yeboah, took the form of presentations and
discussions. The Chairman entreated participants to give their objective and frank assessment of the Project
for a more practical and meaningful decisions to be taken by all stakeholders to sustain the Project after
December 31, 1999.
Mr. Siisi Wilson, Planning Director, Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF), deputised for the sector
Minister. In his opening remarkS he stressed the importance of the workshop as it gives an opportunity for
stakeholders to evaluate the Project's performance and also provide a forum for participants to give
suggestions to guide and direct management in finding ways to sustain the Project. He challenged the
beneficiaries to attest whether the Project benefited the communities and the waterfowls, which were being
protected, and if the technical and social structures put in place could help sustain the Project.
PRESENTATIONS:
OVERVIEW OF TIE CWMP BY MR. DAVID KPELLE. CO-ORDINATOR OF CWMP
The Co-ordinator gave a brief background activities since the Project inception and outlined the achievements
as follows:
REGULATIONS:
*   Ramsar Sites Regulations passed by Parliament
*   Management plans for all Sites prepared.
CIVIL WORKS:
-      Staff accommodation for all Sites completed.
-      Board Walkway Constructed.
-      Sign post erected.
-40 -



Roasting places for birds provided at Densu Delta.
Observation posts constructed at all sites to facilitate visitor use of the sites for bird
watching.
Refuse receptacles constructed at Keta, Songor and Muni-Pomadze.
COMMUNITY COLLABORATION ACTIVITIES
-      The investment of $400,000.00 spent on income generation activities under the Community
Investment Support Fund (CSIF).
-     Community based wetlands management committees established.
-      Community task force formed.
-     Exploring possibilities of merging the Village Infrastructure Progranmne with CISF.
-     Collaboration with Water Resources Commission to be forrnalised.
INCOMPLETE PROJECTS
Research Centre uncompleted (was suspended).
Education Centres at all the Sites uncompleted (were suspended).
COMMENTS
The general observation was that the beneficiary communities had an erroneous impression that the project
objective was to protect only birds hence their initial uncooperative attitude to the implementation of the
Project.
A representative from Muni-Pomadze Ramsar Site said that the uncompromising and uncooperative posture
taken by the communities was due to the misunderstanding of Project objective and non-involvement of
primary stakeholders in the initial planning process. He said, however, that the numerous meetings and
workshops, coupled with the conservation education activities during the implementation stage, created
enough awareness among the citizenry thus erasing all erroneous impressions perceived at first. He further
appealed to the Donor Community, the World Bank and the Ministry of Lands and Forestry to provide
additional funds for the Wildlife Division to continue the project and the conservation education embarked
on.
Another participant from Songor Ramsar Site underscored the immense contribution made by the project in
the areas of mangrove regeneration, which earned them an award. The river channel clearing has helped to
improve the standard of living of people living along the Volta River near Ada Foah. He commended the
CWMP management and urged the World Bank and the Division to continue the project. He again suggested
food for work programme for the communities within the Site.
A representative of Densu-Delta Ramsar Site, in his contribution, said that the Community Investment
Support Fund (CISF) has helped them a lot and awaken in them conservation activities. He, however,
pressed for increased Education Programme.
A representative from Sakumo Ramsar Site was more concemed about the discharged of effluent from the
Tema sewerage treatment plant into the sea and suggested that the outfall should be extended deep into the
sea.
- 41 -



DISCUSSIONS OF DRAFT REPORT OF BENEFICIARY AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
STUDY CONDUCTED BY MR. ELIJAH YAW DANSO.
The study assessed two components of the project:
a)     Public Education and Awareness; and
b)     Community Development
The Study objective of the Education Programmes was to answer the question of:
I)     How relevant was the programme.
2)     What Activities were carried out and
3)     To what extent.
The aspects listed below were looked at under the Community Development Component:
I )    The level of involvement of the beneficiary communities in the Project.
2)     What activities were carried out.
3)     What impact has the component made.
4)     The arrangement of loan disbursement.
5)     The effectiveness of the CISF training programmes.
6)     Consultation with about 200 people, District Assemblies, opinion leaders and other relevant
Institution.
7)     Review of the baseline studies documents.
OBJECTIVE 1 THE IMPACT OF PUBLIC AWARENESS CREATION.
The Ghana Wildlife Society (GWS) was contracted to undertake the Public Awareness and Education
component.
ACHIEVEMENIS
-      600 Wildlife clubs formed
-      10 workshops / Seminars held in all the five (5) sites
-      GWS Sites staff/club members trained.
-      Public education awareness and increased.
-      Changing negative attitudes towards wetland resources.
-      Improved Sense of community ownership of resources.
-      Emergence of community based organisations.
OBJECTIVE 2 - THE IMPACT OF COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT.
This aspect of the project was handled by the implementing agency, the Wildlife Division of the Forestry
Commission.
OBSERVATIONS
-42-



Sanitation equipment and materials supplied to the District Assemblies in the five Ramsar
sites.
-     Site Management Committees (SMC's) in place but had less local people involvement
(top-heavy approach) at start to take on board institutions whose activities influenced policy
formulation and or determined how the wetlands were used. This was necessary to halt
inappropriate use rampant at Project start up.
-     Beneficiaries of the CISF came from all the sites - 40% investment in farming, 37% into
food processing and 7% into fishing.
It was, however, noted that no clear reporting procedure or mechanism was in place for local SMC members
to report back to their communities.
AREAS OF ASSESSMENT:
-     Capacity of actors
-      State of the project
-     Access to project funds
-     Problems confronted by the projects
OBSERVATIONS
-     That the Wildlife Division (WD) was the major beneficiary in capacity building.
-     Ghana Wildlife Society (GWS) also benefited from training.
The consultant said though the actors did their best in the execution of the project, a number of problems
were encountered. Some of these problems highlighted in the report were:
-     Lack of capacity of the implementing agency, Wildlife Division, at the project starts up. WI
had only two (2) Project Officers at post. Recruitment drive for additional staff took two (2)
years.
The vast area and administrative complexities hampered the smooth take of the Project as
the area lies in nine (9) Administrative District falling within different geographical
locations.
Difficulty in accessing Project funds coupled with delay in and outright non release of
Ghana Government (GOG) Counterpart Funding.
MAJOR DECISIONS TAKEN AT THE WORKSHOP
The participants agreed that, individual talents must be brought together to manage the site
hence greater involvement of the local people. This is necessary for Project sustainability.
Traditional conservation practices need to be enforced hence the urgency in the
promulgation of bye-laws. Traditional Authorities and District Assemblies were
urged to rally behind the Division to manage the wetlands.
-43 -



Provision of incentives to comnmunities, which excel in wetlands conservation
programmes should be instituted.
Encourage more private sector involvement in future programmes - examples are
Pambros Salt Industries, Coca-Cola Company Limited, NGOs etc.
Ghana of Government (GOG) fund must flow regularly and should be calculated in
kind not in cash in future if possible.
Contractual arrangements with the CWMP and other groups on research and
monitoring should be maintained and strengthened.
The ineffective institutional arrangement on disbursement of Project fund between
the Wildlife Division and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) should be
discontinued. EPA could not handle CWMP funds effectively as it lumped several
Project funds together resulting in the delay of executing many programmes. The
servicing bank created more problems resulting in ineffective replenishment of funds
from Washington.
Trawler operators plying too close to the Ghanaian beach should be educated on the
dangers of their activities to wildlife conservation.
The Community Investment Support Fund should not be merged with the District
Rural Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) of the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) but
kept separately to ensure that the CISF is used exclusively for its intended purpose.
However, the CSIF should be managed by the same committee managing the DRIF.
-44 -



LIST OF PARTICIPANTS
Sixty-three (63) participants including the underlisted individuals and representatives of major
stakeholder organisations and community groups took part in the workshop:
Prof. A. A. Oteng-Yeboah   Deputy Director-General, Enviromnent Sector,
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
Mr. Siisi Wilson        Planning Director, Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF)
Prof. E. Dorm Adzorbu   Chairman, Water Resources Commission, Accra
Mr. Elijah Y. Danso     Consultant, PAB-Consult, Tema
Dr. G. T. Agyepong      Remote Sensing Applications Unit, Univ. of Ghana
Dr. D. A. Attuquayfio   Zoology Department, Univ. of Ghana
Mr. S. K. Nyame         Ghana Wildlife Society
Mr. Ekow Ayanful        District Chief Executive, Gomoa District Assembly
Nana Ghartey IV         Paramount Chief, Effutu Traditional Council, Winneba
Togbe Amuzu II          Traditional Chief, South Tongu District
Togbe Tay Agbozu        Traditional Chief, Keta District
Sakumo Wulomo           Traditional Priest, Tema New Town
Nii Adote Mofatt        Rep. of Sempe Traditional Area
Representatives from:
The World Bank
Ministry of Finance
Environmental Protection Agency
Department of Co-operatives
Department of Agricultural Extension Services
Panbros Salt Industries
Ramsar Site District Assemblies: Keta (South Tongu, Keta, Akatsi and Ketu) Songor,
Sakumo, Densu and Muni-Pomadze
Beneficiary communities: Community Investment Support Fund and Sanitation facilities
(KVIPs)
Planning Officers of the Ramsar District Assemblies
Staff of WD
-45 -



Annex 10. Mission Aid Memoire
GHANA
GEF COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT (TF 28619)
Implementation Assistance and Completion Mission
October 4 - October 18, 1999
AIDE-MEMMOIRE
A.    Introduction
I.    In accordance with the statement of mission objectives dated September 22, 1999, a World Bank
team jointly with the Government of Ghana (GoG) canied out an implementation assistance and completion
mission of the GEF Coastal Wetlands Management Project (CWMP) from October 4 to October 18, 1999.
The World Bank team included: Messrs.lMmes. P.Mensah (Agricultural Economist, Team Leader), S. Bekure (Sr.
Operations Officer), E.O. Boakye (Community/Rural Financial Specialist), F. Yankey (Financial Management
Specialist), K. Awanyo (Procurement Specialist), Lucie Tran (Operations Analyst). The GoG representatives
included: Messrs. D. Kpelle (Project Coordinator, MLF), B.Y. Ofori-Frimpong (Principal Wildlife Officer, WD),
C. Amankwa (Wildlife Officer, WD), V. Nuhu (Education Officer, WD), A. Ananzore (Economist, MOF), Prof. D.
Adzorbu (Consultant, Chairman WRC), T. Agyarko (Planning Officer, MLF). The Bank team met with the
Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF), the Wildlife Department (WD),
the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the private sector, Panbros
Company at the Densu site, the Water Resources Commission (WRC), the Ghana Wildlife Society (GWS),
Village Insfrastructure Project (VIP) staff, Department of Cooperatives staff, as well as researchers
responsible for data collection and monitoring, and community members of the Ramsar (lagoons) sites (see
List of Persons Met, Annex 1). The teams visited selected project sites and met with officials of the District
Assemblies (DAs), leaders and members of several communities.
2.     The project will be closing on December 31, 1999. In accordance with Bank procedures, the Bank
team informed the project management on the requirements for preparing the Recipient's contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the project and provided a copy of the revised ICR guidelines.
3.    A wrap-up meeting to discuss the visit's main findings and agreements contained in the
aide-memoire was held on October 18, 1999, and was chaired by Honorable Minister, Dr. Christina
Amoako-Nuaxna, Minister for Lands and Forestry. The Bank would like to thank the representatives of the
Government of Ghana, local communities and all other stakeholders for the cooperation and assistance they
provided to the visiting team.
-46 -



B.    Project Objectives and Background
4.    The CWMP is a GEF component of the Environmental Resources Management Project (GERMP)
and focuses on the environmental problems along the eastern coast of Ghana, where five wetland areas
have been designated as Ramsar Sites including Keta Lagoon, Songor, Muni-Pomadze, Densu Delta, and
Sakumo. For their global importance as habitat for migratory water birds, a GEF grant in the amount of
SDR 5.0 million (US$7.2 million) was approved in October 1992 and declared effective in March 1993. A
govermment counterpart contribution of about US$1.1 million was estimated at the time of appraisal.
5.    The development objective of the CWMP is to maintain the ecological integrity of five coastal
wetlands sites under a system of effective management to: (i) ensure wetlands are ecologically viable over
the long-term, (ii) encourage economic development activities that are compatible with the maintenance of
the wetland ecosystems to provide continuous benefits for the livelihood of communities living within the
wetland sites; and (iii) promote public awareness of environmental and conservation issues. The project
uses a community-based management approach within the principles specified under the Ramsar
Convention. The project funded civil works for site establishment and management, equipment, training
and consultant services for research and monitoring activities, environmental education and public
awareness, and community development.
C. Major Findings
Legal Aspects
6.    The draft legislative instument (LI) for the legal establishment of the five wetland sites, which
was endorsed by the Cabinet and was to be submitted to Parliament in December 1998 has not been carried
out as scheduled because the issue of the constitutionality of powers of arrest of the WD wardens had to be
resolved. Project management informs the Bank team that the draft has been submitted for consideration
when Parliament resumes from recess on October 19, 1999.
7.    By-laws, intended to complement the LI on conservation and use of the Ramsar wetlands, are being
reviewed by the legal subcommittees of the DAs and will be enacted when the LI is passed by Parliament.
Policy Aspects
8.    The draft wetlands strategy paper entitled "Managing Ghana's Wetlands: A National Wetlands
Conservation Strategy, prepared by the WD and dated November 1999, will be submitted to the MLF for
approval. This strategy was developed as a follow-up to the National Land Policy.
Site Survey, Boundary Demarcation, and Internal Zoning
9.    The boundaries of the five sites have been surveyed, demarcated and pillared. They cover a total
area of 1,685.05 km2. External boundaries of the sites are adequately marked with sign posts and boards.
Directive signs from the main roads guiding visitors to the sites are in place. As agreed with the previous
Bank visit, internal information sign posts in English and in local languages have been erected in various
locations.
10.   The existing inventory maps showing the location of infrastructure have been updated. However,
the development of the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) database to include information on
-47 -



boundaries, internal zoning, mapping, and research and monitoring data, has not yet been established, but
the WD has prepared the specifications and intends to obtain a "no objection" from the Bank to contract out
the service.
Agreed Actions:
*  A major signboard at the Sakumo site has been removed and needs to be replaced and some   other
directive signs will need to be repositioned for better visibility.
*   WD will begin the consultant selection process for the GIS database so that the Bank can give its "no
objection."
Site Management
11.       Management of the sites has proceeded satisfactorily under the oversight of MLF, and the
CWMP Operations Committee which now includes the recently established WRC. The Bank noted the
present management structure of the sites and the roles of the Project Coordinator, the field staff, and the
composition of the Site Management Committees (SMCs) in future site management. Although the SMCs
usually meet once every quarter, only one meeting has been held at each site during the first quarter of
1999. This was because staff and the SMCs were obliged to focus efforts and resources on providing input
and addressing issues related to formulation of the by-laws. The SMCs assisted in the fornulation and
implementation of management measures. In preparation for the sustainability of the project activities
following the project's closing, it was agreed that management plans will need to be prepared, with the
collaboration of all partners.
Agreed Actions:
Project management will ensure that the draft New Management Plans covering a five-year
period for each of the five Ramsar sites are prepared before December 31, 1999.
Research and Monitoring
12.       Ecological baseline studies have been completed for all the sites. The reports on the two larger
sites have been published. The editing and preparation of reports on three smaller sites for publication as
scientific documents are expected to be completed before the project's closing date.
13.   Ecological monitoring activities are being carried out on a cost-sharing basis between the
researchers (Water Research institute, Ghana Wildlife Society - NGO, and Zoology Department -
University of Ghana) and the MLF. This arrangement is expected to continue in the future.
Community Development
14.   The Community Investment Support Fund (CISF), for the support of micro-enterprises as part of
the community development program is proceeding well. Since it was first made available to the
communities in mid-1997 as part of the community development program, demand for the funds has been
high, and 67 groups numbering 1,647 individuals within the Sites have borrowed from the $400,000 fund
to fnance income-generating ventures requiring a biodiversity activity.
-48 -



15.   The Bank team noted that, in terms of linkages with biodiversity activities, the beneficiary groups
have been effective in establishing such community projects as planting woodlots, forming groups for
clearing or cleaning up sites, becoming agents of change in their own communities, and forming patrol units
in the Songor and Keta sites to monitor and protect turtles. In addition, some beneficiary groups have
become actively involved in community education and public awareness programs.
16.   So far, about US$390,000 of the US$400,000 have been disbursed to community groups for such
activities as fishing, farming, fish-smoking, agro-processing, mat-weaving, and others. However, the
repayment rate is lower than expected since the first disbursements were made in September 1998. This
can be attributed to a number of factors which can lead to delay of initial purchase of materials or
stockpiling for later sale: (i) timing of the fishing season, (ii) drought resulting in low crop yield, (iii)
unavailability of natural raw materials (e.g., reeds for mat-weaving). Furthermore, accounts and records of
a number of groups showed monthly installments meant for loan repayment accumulating in group
accounts rather than being transferred to the project account.
17.   The repayment schedules for the fund were linked to the two years remaining in the project's life
(1998-1999). However, most of the groups are now requesting an extension of the repayment period in
order to be able to reinvest the amounts they received for another year. In order to ensure the continuity of
the CISF, the Bank team discussed with the implementing unit of the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP),
the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU), the possibility of transferring the management of the
CISF under their responsibility. Since the RICU is already managing a similar fund, the District Rural
Infrastructure Fund (DRIF), which provides funding to rural communities for small infrastructure projects,
it was recommended that the CISF be transferred to the RICU and that a suitable agreement be formalized
between the parties concerned. However, to avoid confusion in the management and accountability of the
DRIF and the CISF, separate bank accounts would be kept for the two funds at the DA level. Furthermore,
there will be arrangements for the beneficiary groups to deposit payment directly into project accounts at
the DA level.
18.   Once the details of the transfer are worked out, the repayment schedules can then be revised in
consideration of the points raised by the community groups above (para. 17). However, constant, effective
supervision of the groups' activities by the WD, DAs, and Department of Cooperatives, together, will be an
important factor in ensuring success of the program and in improving the community groups' repayment
record.
Agreed Actions:
* A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is to be drawn up between the RICU, the WD and the
District Assemblies outlining the respective roles and responsibilities of each party concerning the
CISF.
Public Awareness and Environmental Education
19..      This program has been implemented successfully. At present, the Wildlife Clubs formed in
schools number about 600 accross the country, increasing from 500 as of December 1998. The wildlife
magazine, "Nko", is published quarterly and periodic events designed to promote public awareness and
environmental conservation are conducted yearly by the GWS and WD. However, although Wildlife Club
numbers have increased, indicating a positive trend, frequent visits by animators are necessary to stimulate
the Clubs and ensure that they do not lie dormant. Training of trainers needs to be maintained to ensure
-49 -



continuity in the absence of the animators. Sustainable impact of the programs also requires that
environmental messages be reinforced continuously, particularly in areas where certain activities can mean
livelihood for wetland inhabitants.
20.    The community outreach and education program which was under contract with the Ghana
Wildlife Society (GWS) expired in December 1998. Since then, the WD has been implementing part of
this program along with the active participation of the DAs. Continued operation of the education
program on a cost sharing basis is being discussed and negotiated between these two institutions. GWS
noted that since the education program has been implemented successfully, membership has grown along
with the related activities, and consequently, is experiencing staffng and funding shortages. In the
meantime, GWS has continued the education program on a scaled down basis (wildlife clubs, wildlife
society activities).
21.   The Bank team met with the managers of the Water Resources Commission (WRC), to discuss
possibilities of funding the future operation of the public awareness and environmental education program.
WRC noted that two components of the CWMP, (i) public awareness and environmental education, and (ii)
restoration and rehabilitation of the waterways, could be covered under the umbrella of future WRC
activities to be funded under DANIDA (Denmark) assisted programs.
Agreed Actions:
*   WRC will draft the terms of reference for action plans covering the five sites by end-October 1999 and
submit the plans for DANIDA's approval in order to provide a smooth transition once CWMP's
funding closes end-December 1999.
*   WD to assess effectiveness and impact of the program in terms of increased awareness. The
Beneficiary and Social Impact Assessment will be carried out and the results made available project
closing. Following this assessment, a stakeholder workshop will be held to disseminate the fndings.
Procurement
22.   Education centers and research center. Consultations were carried out with stakeholders on the
re-design of education centers. At the time the design was completed it became evident that the
construction of the four education centers at Keta, Ada-Foah, Sakumo, and Winneba, could not be finished
by the time the project closed. Project stakeholders could not agree on the original designs and although
work was in progress, the contractors were requested to stop the work. The contract for the construction of
the Songor Research Center was terminated because of non-performance by the contractor. The structure is
at foundation level; and it is too late in the project life to launch a bid to complete the facility.
23.   Observation posts and walkways. The original plan for 11 observation posts to be constructed has
been reduced. To date, eight observation posts have been constructed at the five sites.
24.   Staff housing. The staff housing units at Muni-Pomadze, Sakumo and Songor are completed and
have been occupied by WD/WS staff. WD terminated the contract for the construction of the staff
accommodation units at the Keta Site. The work for the completion of those units located at Keta, Akatsi
and Afiadenyigba have been re-awarded as separate contracts. The work is in progress and the buildings
are 80% completed. Work is expected to be completed by end of December 1999.
25.   Sanitation facilities (KVIPs). To date, 85 sanitation facilities have been completed and are being
- 50 -



used at the sites. No additional construction of KVIPs are planned before project closing.
26.    Consultant Services. A consultant has been selected to assist WD in preparing the final project
evaluation report for the project. Another consultant is due to begin the assignment for the beneficiary and
social impact assessment of the project. The final reports for each of the above are due by end-November.
Project financing and Disbursement
27.    About SDR3.7 million (US$5.2 million) has been disbursed on the project as of October 11,
1999, with about SDRI.3 million (US$ 1.8 million) remaining undisbursed. Disbursements under this
project has been slow despite two extensions of the closing date. The project is not expected to be fully
disbursed by the closing date of December 31, 1999. The mission noted that the responsibility of the
Special Account and the accounting records and documents have been transferred from EPA to MLF as
part of the new implementation arrangements following the closure of the GERMP project.
28.    The table below shows the pattern of counterpart fund releases under the project as of 1993. Even
though project activities have increased because the project is due to close this year, no counterpart funds
have been released to support these activities in the third quarter of the year. Consequently, many of the
project creditors may not be able to claim the amounts owed them, payable through counterpart fund
contributions. MLF would need to ensure that the project is provided with the required counterpart funding
to avoid such a situation.
Amount Released   Amount Released as
Amount Requested  Amount Approved   Amount Released  as % of Amt.    % of Amt Approved
Years       (Million Cedis)   (Million Cedis)  (Million Cedis)   Requested
1993            *                  *               4.1              -
1994           165.0             165.0             82.5           50 %             50%
1995           425.8             121.0              0              0%              0%
1996           476.0             134.0             58.2            12%             43 %
1997           413.6             263.0             66.0            16%             25 %
1998           203.4             203.4            100.0           49 %             49%
1999           71.0               71.0              0              0%              0%
* GoG finds ( 55 million) allocated to GERMP at the opening of the project account.
Accounts and Audits
29.    The project audit report for the year ending December 31, 1998, which was carried out as part of
the audit of GERMPI was submitted to the Bank on June 20, 1999 (due date 06/30/99). The Bank's review
showed that there was an outstanding amount due to the Social Security Bank Limited (SSB), the bank
which initially managed the Special Account until it was transferred due to a poor performance in handling
and issuing correct bank statements to the project. The Bank requested that project management reconcile
- 51 -



their balances with those of SSB to ensure that the project will not be liable to the commercial bank at
project closing. It was noted that this has not been completed and the mission urges project management to
complete this reconciliation without any further delay.
30.   The mission also discussed the arrangement for the final audit of the project accounts for the period
January I to December 31, 1999. It was agreed that an interim audit should be carried out by the auditors
in November 1999 to cover activities for the period January to October 1999, and a final audit to cover the
movement in project balances for the last two months of 1999, to be completed and submitted prior to the
due date of June 30, 2000. This arrangement will make it possible to pay the auditors about 80% of the
total audit cost from the project funds, and ensure a timely submission of the audit report due by June 30,
2000.
Agreed Actions:
* EPA to complete reconciliation of bank balances between project accounts and SSB statements
without further delay.
* Project management to make arrangements for consultant selection to prepare final project audit by
mid-December 1999.
31.   GoG informed the Bank Team that it intends to make a proposal for a follow-up operation based
on the project's achievements.
Date: October 18, 19999
- 52 -



LIST OF PERSONS MET
Ministry of Lands And Forestry
(a)    Administration:
Dr. Christina Amoako-Nuama, Minister
Mr. K.B. Boakye-Boateng, Program Director
Mrs. E. Tekpetey, Director (Administration)
Mr. J. Amissah, Program Administrator
Mr. G. Symes, Policy and Institutional Advisor
Mr. E. Kitcher, Project Accountant
Mr. T. Agyarko, Planning Officer
(b)    Wildlife Department.
Mr. N. Ankudey, Acting Executive Director
Mr. BY. Ofori- Frimpong, Principal Wildlife Officer
Mr. E. Lamnptey, Principal Wildlife Officer
Mr. David Kpelle, Project Coordinator
Mr. C. Amankwa, Site Warden Densu/Sakumo site)
Mr. S. Adamu, Site Warden (Muni-Pomadze Ramsar)
Mr. D. Abraham, Site Warden (Keta Lagoon Site)
Mr. F. Nani (Keta Site)
Mr. D. Agyeman, (Songor site)
Ms. Vivian Nuhu, Education Officer
2.      Ministry of Finance
Mr. A. Ananzore, Economist
3.    District Assemblies:
Mrs. V. Gidiglo, District Chief Executive, Akatsi
Mr. C. Sackley, District Chief Executive, South Tongu
Mr. A. Kponyo, District Coordinating Director, Akatsi
Mr. Mawusi, Budget Officer, Akatsi
Mr. Botchway, Budget Officer, Akatsi
Mr. M. Agbeveanu, District Education Officer, Akatsi
Mr. P. Agbanyo, Chief Executive Officer, South Tongu
Mr. Tamakloe, District Coordinating Officer, South Tongu
4.    Environmental Protection Agency
Mr. J. Allotey, Director
Mr. E. Dzorkah, Financial Controller
Mr. R. Gasu, Assistant Procurement Officer
- 53 -



5.     Private sector - (Panbros Company. Densu site)
Mr. K. Apenteng, Financial Controller
Mr.J. Amoah, Deputy Engineer
6.     Researchers
Dr. Attuquayefio, Zoology Departnent, University of Ghana
Dr. M. Entsua-Mensah, Water Research Institute
7.     Water Resource Commission
Dr. D. Adom, Executive Secretary
Prof. D. Adzorbu, Chairman
8.    NGO - Ghana Wildlife Societv
Mrs. M. Tachie-Menson
Mrs. E. Owusu
Mr. G. Boakye
9.     Village Infrastructure Project
Dr. K. Agyeman-Mensah, National Co-ordinator
Mr. B. M. Oppong, Rural Engineer
10.   Department of Cooperatives
Mr. R. Buachie-Affram, Registrar
Mr. E. Dukuh, Deputy Registrar
Mr. J. P. Kitcher, Deputy Registrar
Mr. K. Kutame, Assistance Registrar
Ms. T. Anderson, Principal Cooperative Officer
11.    Community Groups of Ramsar sites
Alakple Women Association
Akosua Village Fishmongers Association
Nyarkuadze Maize Farmers Association
Bortianor Fish Smokers Groups
Matsekope Women's Group
Obane Womens'Group
Denu Fish Smokers and Fishmongers Association
Luhor Farmers Association
Sakumo Okro Growers Association
Woe Aklorbodzi Sega Cooperative
Kedzikope Womens' Group
Sokpoe Fishermen
- 54 -



Annex 11. Borrower's Contribution
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT:
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT (CWMP)
SUMMARY
1.0   INTRODUCTION
In 1992, the Government of Ghana (GOG) formulated and adopted the Ghana Environmental
Action Plan (EAP) to address the problem of environmental degradation throughout the country.
The Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP) was initiated in 1993 to
implement the EAP with financial support from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) among
others and administered by the World Bank.
The Coastal Wetlands Management Project (CWMP) is a component of the GERMP that focuses
on the environmental problems along the eastern coast of Ghana, where five (5) wetland areas
have been designated as Ramsar Sites (Keta Lagoon Complex, Songor, Muni - Pomadze, Densu
Delta and Sakumo). Due to their global importance as habitats for migratory water birds, a grant of
US $7.2m was provided from the GEF with US $1.1m Ghana Government counterpart contribution.
The five-year project ended in December 1997, but was extended to December 1998 to make up for
the one-year loss at the start of the project. A second extension was granted from January to
December, 1999. Since the project inception, it has been managed by the Wildlife Department until
January 1999 when the office of the coordinator was transferred to the Ministry of Lands and
Forestry (MLF).
2.0    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Coastal Management Project was designed to maintain the ecological integrity of the key
coastal wetland areas, by involving the people who derive their livelihood from these ecosystems in
the planning and implementation of management programmes. Specifically the project objectives
were as follows:
*     To ensure biodiversity conservation within the coastal ecosystems through the Ramsar 'Vise use"
concept;
To create public awareness on environmental conservation in the coastal zone;
To improve community infrastructure within the coastal wetlands;
- 55 -



*     To offer financial assistance to support poverty alleviation ventures in the local communities;
*     To offer development options which are compatible with the conservation of wetland resources; and
*     To formulate a national wetlands strategy for wetlands conservation in Ghana.
PROJECTS COMPONENTS
The CWMP Consists of Seven (7) Maior
Components:
1.    Site Survey and Demarcation;
2.    Site Management;
3.    Research and Monitoring;
4.    Community Development;
5.    Habitat Improvement Works;
6.    Public Awareness and Education;
7.    Formulation of a National Wetlands Strategy.
Approved cost estimates of the CWMP was approximately US$7.2 million
3.0    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.1   The five sites hold about 80% of the total water-bird populations on the Ghana coast. From
the global perspective, the sites provide refuge for about 5% of all water-birds using the
East Atlantic Flyway at some point during their annual migration. Bird numbers have
remained steady during the project implementation period. This could be attributed to the
fact that their habitats have now been safeguarded.
3.2  Site Survey and Demarcation
Boundary Demarcation: The boundaries of each of the five (5) sites have been surveyed,
demarcated and pillared since 1995.  The total area covered by the five sites is
1685.05km2.
Gazeftement: The Wetlands Management (Ramsar Sites) Regulation, 1999, L.l. 1659,
has been passed into law by Parliament.
Bye-Laws:   In consultation with the District Assemblies (DAs), traditional authorities and
local communities, Bye-Laws for the respective District Assemblies have been prepared.
The bye-laws are to empower local communities in ensuring that they have the legal
backing for using traditional norms to regulate resource use within the Ramsar Sites.
3.3    Site Management
- 56 -



Each site is under the management of an Assistant Wildlife Officer (AWO), assisted by a
number of field-staff and the Site Management Committee (SMC). Representation on
SMCs comprises the District Assemblies, Traditional Authorities, Local communities, and
appropriate government and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whose work has a
bearing on the use of the wetland resources. The committees meet at least once every
quarter of the year, and assist the AWO, in the formulation and implementation of their
management programmes.
Management Plans:   New management plans, spanning over a 5-year period, have been
developed for each of the five Ramasar Sites.
Civil Works   Staff accommodation consisting of four (4) Senior Staff Bungalows (SSB),
four (4) Duplex Junior Staff Quarters (DJSQ), two (2) Single Junior Staff Quarters (SJSQ)
and one (1) caretaker residence (CTR) have been constructed.
- 57 -



3.4   Research and Monitoring
*     Baseline studies have been completed in nine (9) disciplines: Limnology, Plant Ecology, Water Bird
Ecology, Aquatic Ecology and Terrestrial Ecology. The others are Soil and Land-Use,
Socio-Economics, Fisheries Ecology and Development Options.
*     An Ecological Monitoring Programme, designed out of the recommendations of the baseline studies
is currently being implemented on cost-sharing basis with the Zoology Department of the University
of Ghana, Water Research Institute and Ghana Wildlife Society.
*     A Research Centre that was under construction at Ada-Foah within the Songor Ramsar Site has
been suspended by the World Bank.
*     Studies to determine the impact of the Community Development and Public Education Programme
have been completed.
3.5   Community Development
Sanitation Improvement
*     The three rural sites, Keta Lagoon Complex, Songor and Muni-Pomadze have been provided with
tipper trucks for waste disposal;
*     Eighty-four (84) sanitation units (toilets) have been completed to help reduce pollution in the
lagoons and along the beaches;
-     Ten (10) refuse collection points have been constructed for temporary waste disposal.
Community Investment Support Fund
-     Income Generation Ventures:  Seven-two (72) groups made up of 1706 individuals (705 men and
1,001 women)within the five sites benefited from a US$410,297 (originally US$400,000) Community
Investment Support Fund (CISF) by which a group is granted a loan to undertake income generation
ventures that are environmentally friendly. So far a total of US$321,401.78 (991,688,401.00) has been
disbursed to fishermen, fish-smokers, farmers, etc.
*     Biodiversity Development:    As their contribution to improve the biodiversity of these areas each
group is undertaking a conservation activity such as wood-lot establishment, mangrove regeneration,
clearing of choked river channels etc, with inputs provided by the project. An amount US$88,895.48
(274,287,900.00) has been utilised for this purpose.
*     Some of the achievements are as follows: Sakumo 15 acres; Songor 34 acres; Muni-Pomadze 10
acres; Keta 75 (Akatsi - 38 and Anloga - 37) acres.
3.6.  Habitat Improvement Works
- 58 -



*  Major habitat improvement works have been carried out to improve breeding and roosting conditions of
shore birds. These include rehabilitation of degraded bunds of salt pans and providing mounts and
boxes for nesting. In addition, sign posts and bill-boards have been erected to ensure that adequate
guidance is provided to users of the sites;
* Choked river channels and creeks have been cleared to improve water transport, fisheries and crop
production: (4km at Songor 1.5km at Muni-Pomadze);
*  At three of the Sites (Songor, Sakumo and Muni-Pomadze) Community Task Force have been
constituted to protect breeding grounds of marine turtles and prevent inappropriate exploitation of
wetland resources.
*  Tree plantation establishment: Songor 10 acres; Akatsi 8 acres; Sakumo 2 acres and Muni-Pomadze 2
acres.
*  Tema sewerage out-fall diverted to sea to avert pollution of Sakumo Lagoon;
3.7  Public Awareness and Education
-  Community education and public awareness programme was formulated and implemented through
contract arrangements with GWS.
*  As at December, 1999, about 600 Wildlife Clubs had been formed in schools throughout the country.
-  A wildlife conservation magazine, NKO was published periodically;
-  Visitor centres that were under construction at Keta, Ada-Foah, Sakumo and Winneba have been
suspended by the World Bank, blaming it on poor designs and lack of consultation with stakeholders.
*  Eight (8) observation posts have been completed: Keta 2, Songor 2, Sakumo 2, Densu Delta 1 and
Muni-Pomadze 1.
3.8 National Wetlands Strategy
In order to facilitate community-based collaborative wetlands management throughout the country, National
Wetlands Conservation Strategy has been completed.
3.9  In addition to the above the project has achieved the global objective of developing biodiversity.
4.0    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
4.1    A number of factors militated against the attainment of the project objectives, The involvement of
- 59 -



many stake-holders and a prolonged process of accessing project funds.
The resultant delays in implementation necessitated two successive extensions at the end
of the five-year project period.
4.1.1  Factors Not Generally Subject to GOG Control
Some of the factors which adversely affected the project were not generally subjected to
GOG control. One of the major factors was attributed to the cumbersome mode of
accessing project funds. As at 29th February, 2000, about US$5,606,692.60 was disbursed,
with US$523,386.00 committed and US$1,334,707.63 undisbursed. An outstanding balance
of about US$811,321.59 is expected.
4.1.2  Factors Generally Subject to GOG Control
Government commitment in adopting the EAP and soliciting funding for the GERMP was
undermined by the inability of GOG to release counterpart funds, thereby retarding project
implementation.
There were also difficulties in getting common understanding of the relevant legislation.
This led to a prolonged period of awareness creation.
4.1.3  Factors Generally Subiect to lmplementation Aaencv Control
These include delay in the appointment of full complement of staff resulting in
implementation delays and management ineffectiveness, especially at the project sites.
Until December 1998, when the project was a component of the GERMP (closed on
12/31/98), the Wildlife Department was directly responsible for project management with
the EPA as the lead agency.
Wth the closure of the GERMP and the need to strengthen project management, MLF
assumed responsibility, appointed a full time project coordinator whose offices was
relocated in their offices. The Coordinator worked directly under the Technical Director.
5.0   BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory. It fielded several Implementation Review and
Assistance Missions during the life of the project. It also reviewed and approved two successive
extensions to the project.  Attempts by the Bank to prevail on GOG to release counterpart funds
for project implementation, did not yield the expected results. This negatively affected the
performance of the implementing agency. Bank Consultants have assisted the WD in designing
and implementing the CISF.
-60 -



6.0    RECIPIENTS PERFORMANCE
The direct involvement of the recipient (GOG) in the project consisted of the provision of the
counterpart fund for the project activities. In this regard, the recipient's performance was deficient
since only small amount of funds were released by GOG for project implementation. Although the
implementation agency encountered initial staffing and management problems, its overall
performance was satisfactory.
Stakeholder commitment (DAs, traditional authorities and local communities) was also highly
satisfactory.
7.0   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1    The probability of maintaining and improving on results so far achieved are highly likely. A
Ramsar Law has been passed by parliament and a National Wetlands Strategy has been
prepared for the conservation of wetlands in Ghana. A broad participatory process was
adopted in preparing the strategy, with a strong community-based participation at local and
national levels involving communities, traditional leaders, District Assemblies, civil society,
Universities, local NGOs and individuals. This broad participatory process has developed a
sense of ownership among the population and augers well for the sustainability of the
project. The strategy will be adopted soon. As part of the strategy, an action plan for
medium and long-term activities is being discussed for adoption.
7.2    Ecological Monitoring during the project was contracted to partner research institutions,
namely Water Research Institute, Ghana Wildlife Society and Zoology department of the
University of Ghana. With the termination of these contracts in December 1998, a new
partnership arrangement has been reached between the WD and the institutions to facilitate
a revised monitoring programme.  Furthermore, the institutions will mainstream  the
wetlands monitoring into their programmes and carry out the monitoring activities on cost
sharing basis with WD. The number of monitoring parameters and frequency of data
collection will be reduced to encourage the site wardens to effectively participate in the data
collection.
7.2    A Community Investment Support Fund (CISF) has been established to assist identifiable
groups to undertake a range of income generating activities including farming and
agro-processing. Some members of beneficiary groups have been trained in basic financial
record keeping and enterprise management. Fieldstaff and SMCs monitor and maintain
information on disbursement and fund recovery and advise groups on repayment
procedures.
7.4    Project management has entered into partnership with other government agencies and
NGOs. Apart from the partnership arrangements concluded for ecological monitoring
-61 -



activities, respective District Assemblies are being requested to incorporate wetlands
management activities into their annual programmes, with backstopping provided by WD
fieldstaff. At the District Assembly level, the Community Investment Support is to be
integrated in the Village Infrastructure Project (VIP). The Water Resources Commission'
(WRC) has also agreed to provide resources for education and Public awareness
programme and the rehabilitation of river basins within its river basins development
programme. Similar transitional arrangements are to e worked out with other organizations,
eg. Department of Cooperatives and TechnoServe.
A number of Private Sector organisations have expressed interest in collaborating wit the
project in some specific activities. For example, Pambros Salt Industry at the Densu Delta
Site and Coca-Cola Company Ltd at Sakumo.
-62 -



8.0    LESSONS LEARNED
*     Traditional Conservation practices are useful in obtaining local community commitment to project
implementation.
*      Ethnic differences make duplication of lessons learned difficult.
*     Direct benefits from project activities (eg. CISF) are useful in soliciting local community support.
*     Decentralized administrative structures are useful in project implementation.
*     Access to project funds are hampered by cumbersome procedure.
*     Collaboration with academic and research institutions is beneficial in project implementation.
-     Government commitment by way of legal backing and financing is essential for project success.
-     Weak institutional arrangements retard project implementation.
-     Private sector participation is beneficial and should be solicited.
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






SIBRD 237A6
-   -   'I'R.A.' :&:1,; Reiri'i:',siTE   'RA-!AOSE:DSOI-4Gt)S Fll-   0z30gE  A J   U-3SEb  >   '\iln'  PROPOSED ANLO  IQIEFA S1ITE                                                TOGO
As                                    0rob_I. A  A                                  4  Kl                              pMEIEES gLOME EES HwnLc  _  Vlcar.W.> \ ..  ~-RA RMSAR SITE bOUNDARY
,Ahi~~~~~~~~~~~~  X,LOOETEES   KOOMETEES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MR E                                                                                                A-
- ~~tS          S       4                                                   05,/  5.53t5bell   5 Z-0    - ~   \  .         0  *ts !.+           <          ~ ' Aome   t           )         -.-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAEAINRTOALUDR
_4,.                                                                                                                                                                                                           :
-AMOSNAEEbEOUEEO31EY  s3toFuna    Lwssmcnd/  LO- /\ S                                                                                                                                                                                     t 1 0' , ,, Gulf of Gl/ineo - -: -.: .b
I  E        o                                                I g   m:   DEZN          7             /l    K\.t
Oab                 gA0s.SSIFSM                                                   ---                                                A                                                 \5_ X - ;                                0.-  6 ; 1j% =<\ f                                        a
-  1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1
ESSASME~~~-                                                                                                                   ; -  i2NMA  A                                                NM LDS ooo
,-E     ,R                                        -S
IUI   I,Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                        Glf   fGun
-ATATIONA. -NTINA AURA            061,.0Idl,                                   LAOST
1A.D USS .-ADASSNT-A                                                             VTKSAW OND
C-. 1ETNLMED M-                                       5.                    EN OM                                                                                                                                                            TOGO
SEMMA.    -OAINAOADS  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I U S A                                                                                                                                Doods. V~~~~~~~FRPOE MD E  ~I
PARSES ESESROP                                                        -/~~~~~ S                                                                                                                                                                                                       I *  Omk.
Aos..LOKA
.59 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 6
2030                                                                                                            PROPOSEt) RAM$AR SITES                                     DURKIEJA PASO  'y <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRPOSD ONGR 17
*  'N                                            Moedi-Teko,odi         Gulf    of    Guinea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                   RQ'O  MU lIABTI
A  ~~~~~~~    N  -~~~~~GHN
OS' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ D                                                                                                                                                                                                 0AAA~~~~~~POOSDRA$R  It
3-6  2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-  2-00-  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-~~~~~0A l  lSS
IL  .; ~~'<  I ~~  -    ~~                           N- o~~o~'                            535                            E505'                          S'3A                            0'09'                           5530                                         Ar-NY 1992~~~q>






r
BURKINA FASO                                        KrAo                                     GHANA
,\4 WAGRO - ECOLOGICAL
ZONES
AGRO -ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
SUDAN SAVANNA
GUINEA SAVANNA
TRANSITIONAL
DECIDUOUS FOREST
COTE                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAIN FOREST
- COASTAL SAVANNA
aw,                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREDOMINANT
LIVESTOCK REGIONS
~~       '\  ~~~~'             -~~~%~~  ISOHYETS IN
NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
*  SANCTUARIES
-PRIMARY ROADS
MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
o  REGION HEADQUARTERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
I      -      ~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
7his mop hos fA  Penp~reopd by TFht WorMd Brnk's stofE oodorMyswi to  _r/1  
lEo00  lioocokotf roodoro ond a kfo hr firte rMooo  ofoo The fEbrId    f] 1   >      Z
R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~o 0'op oori.opfR oofl,rporO of Tbe Word Book Goop. 0c4' foOgool    <0                         Acorn> 
8~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rlr looodonhktstio f ootr orriornyororyodororomeot 01 ocroyMrna oi fcr       
a   r               r                                      sD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocir boooudoriroo                        UXGl ft 
o  ________________                      _______________________________________________________________                                  ___________________17 1 



