GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
10690- Gt+
Republic of Ghana
Coastal Wetlands Management Project
Project Document
August 1992
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme.
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephorre: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Republic of Ghana
Coastal Wetlands Management Project
Project Document
August 1992
THE WORLD BANK






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Cedi (C)
US$1.00             =      C395
C1,000              =      US$2.54
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)       =      2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)             =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (cm)           =      0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)                =      3.28 feet (ft)
ABBREVIATIONS
DGW          Department of Game and Wildlife
EAP          Environmental Action Plan
EPC          Environmental Protection Council
EPCITS       Technical Secretariat of the Environmental Protection Council
GEF          Global Environnent Facility
GET          Global Environment Trust Fund
GERMP        Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project
IUCN         International Union for the Conservation of Nature
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PNDC         Provisional National Defense Council
WCG          Wildlife Clubs of Ghana
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Grantee:lThe Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
Grant Amount:               SDR 5.0 million (US$7.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Grant from Global Environment Trust
Financing Plan:
Foreign        Local        Total
.............. .(US$ millions).
GET                          3.1           4.1           7.2
Government of Ghana          0.1            1.0          1.1
Total 1/                     3.2           5.1           8.3
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Apraisal Rert:        No. 10691-GH
Mm:                         IBRD No. 23746
Includes Duties and Taxes of US$0.5 million.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Backg=und
1.    A growing concern for environmental issues led the Government of Ghana to initiate
the preparation of a National Environmental Policy Statement and a National Environmental
Action Plan (EAP). In formulating the Plan, the Environmental Protection Council (EPC), a
Government agency established in 1974, secured the active collaboration of a wide range of
individuals and institutions in Ghana and among the donor community, including the World
Bank. In the process, EPC generated widespread awareness of the importance of the issues
involved and a consensus about the need for effective action. The EAP has been completed
and has been approved by the Committee of PNDC Secretaries. The major environmental
problems identified in the EAP include soil degradation and soil erosion, deforestation and
forest degradation, and degradation of the natural and built environrnent within the coastal
zone. The strategy for addressing these environmental problems is based on implementation of
programs by sectoral agencies, whilst EPC has the lead responsibility for environmental
policy formulation, monitoring and coordination. The development of mechanisms for
effective coordination and the relationships between EPC and the sectoral agencies are critical
for successful implementation of the EAP. There are designated institutional responsibilities
for the management of environmental resources, and long established procedures for the
demarcation and gazetting of protected areas in Ghana. More detailed background
information is contained in Part II of this Memorandum.
2.    The Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project, which includes the Coastal
Wetlands Management Project, is designed to assist Government with the implementation of
the EAP. As GERMP provides the framework for the management of the coastal wetlands,
the objectives of the wider project are discussed first.
3.    The Ghana Environmental Resource Management project would aim to strengthen the
capacity of both government and people to manage environmental resources. The project
would, therefore, focus on improving resource management capability through reorganizing
and strengthening the institutions involved in environmental resource management, in
particular the Environmental Protection Council and its Technical Secretariat (EPC/TS). The
project would aim to support the TS to fulfill its role in environmental management, that is,
the coordination of action to ensure that development is consistent with the sustainable use of
environmental resources, the monitoring of the environment and the creation of public
awareness of environmental issues. In parallel, the project would aim to develop
environmental management skills in sectoral and local government agencies through staff
training. Development of the management system would be supported through the provision
of an improved enviromnental information system, based on a demand driven approach, and
the creation of links between suppliers and users of information. The objective would be to
provide a better understanding of environmental relationships, and early detection of
environmental pollution or degradation. Dissemination of environmental information would
be one other important objective of the project, within public sector agencies at national and
district levels and the public at large by means of public information and awareness
campaigns. Other project objectives are to assist the users of environmental resources to



invest in the maintenance of environmental assets through adoption of improved practices for
the sustainable use of those resources. In particular the project would support the introduction
of improved land management practices through community involvement in the planning and
implementation of measures to minimize land degradation. Specific attention would be paid
to the fragile coastal wetland ecosystems and it is these activities that would constitute the
Coastal Wetlands Management Project to be financed by GEF.
Project Objectives
4.    The main objective of the project would be to maintain the ecological integrity of key
coastal wetland areas, by involving the people who derive their livelihood from these
ecosystems in the planning and implementation of management programs. The objective
would be to identify and monitor the common resources that benefit human and avian
populations, and manage them to maintain critical bird habitat, without unduly restricting the
options of people to derive benefit from the resources. The project would aim to develop
capabilities at both government and community level for the implementation of the proposed
program, to provide for baseline and monitoring studies, and to undertake studies of options
for development, that would be compatible with sustainable use of the environment.
Project Description
5.    The project is classed as a GEF Type 2 project, that is, although only concessional
assistance from GET would make the project attractive in a country context, the project would
result in substantial global benefits. The GET contribution of US$7.2 million would represent
about 20 percent of the total costs of the wider Ghana Environmental Resource Management
Project, of which it forms an integral part.
6.    GEF funding would provide for the management of five coastal wetland sites that have
been registered under the Ramsar Convention, to which Ghana is a signatory. The five sites
are the Muni, Densu Delta, Sakumo, Songor and Anlo-Keta lagoons. Project funding would
be targeted at three groups of activities: (i) Program Management - Support would be
provided to the Department of Game and Wildlife (DGW) of the Ministry of Lands and
Natural Resources for management of the coastal wetlands program. This would include the
appointment of a coastal wetlands coordinator, an education officer and site wardens, together
with necessary training, field equipment and transport. Funds would also be available for
base-line surveys and regular monitoring of ecological and socio-economic conditions in the
coastal wetlands, including the status of lagoonal fisheries. This monitoring would be
undertaken through local consultancies, using the specialist skills available in the universities
and elsewhere, and would be closely linked to the regular monitoring of environmental
quality, supported under GERMP. Studies of the environmental implications of various
development options in the Volta Basin, including the wetlands below the Akosombo dam,
would be financed under GERMP and linked with studies to develop a national wetland
conservation strategy. The project would support public awareness programs through
provision of training in environmental education to staff of DGW and of the Wildlife Clubs of
Ghana (WCG), an NGO. The project would also finance production and dissemination of
education materials, sponsor workshops and underwrite extension activities to be organized by
WCG. (ii) Site Demarcation and Management - Finance would be available for boundary
surveys and demarcation. The project would also finance the construction of observation
points, an education and research center at Songor, simple on-site education centers at other



- 3 -
sites, habitat enhancement and community development activities. The wetlands program
would be linked to community based land and water management, supported under GERMP,
through the promotion of measures to reduce erosion and improve vegetative cover in the
immediate catchments of the wetland sites. The project would also provide for an investment
support fund to finance developments in the wetlands that are compatible with maintaining the
ecology of the wetlands. (iii) Sakumo Effluent Disposal - The Sakumo Lagoon poses special
problems. It lies on the western margin of Tema, and present plans for a new sewage
treatment plant involve the discharge of treated effluent into the lagoon. The natural outlet of
the lagoon is severely restricted by a road and railway embankment. The project would
provide funds for the construction of a pipe and marine outfall that would discharge the
treated effluent into the sea. This would minimize the risk of nutrient build-up and
consequent eutrophication in the lagoon, but there would be no adverse effects in the surf
zone due to rapid dilution. The project would also finance a study of the hydrology of the
lagoon and possible effects of dredging and of modifying the existing sluice and culvert
through the railway and road embankment to restore natural tidal flow and improve habitat
and water quality.
Project Implementation
7.    The Department of Game and Wildlife, Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
would be responsible for the implementation of this project. A Wetlands Program
Coordinator would be appointed with specific responsibility for the program. Implementation
arrangements would be fully integrated with those agreed for GERMP, in which the lead
agency would be the Technical Secretariat of EPC (EPC/TS). Procurement and disbursement
of project funds would, therefore, be undertaken through EPC/TS and a Coastal Wetlands
Project Operations Committee would be responsible for inter-agency cooperation.
Communities would be closely involved in decisions affecting the management of wetland
areas through local site committees established to advise the Wetlands Program Coordinator
and the Project Operations Committee. The Wildlife Clubs of Ghana would play an important
role in public awareness programs, working with community education officers to develop
programs for the local education centers at each site.
Project Sustainability
8.    Government has demonstrated a sustained commitment to conservation by including
over 5 percent of the national territory within the system of protected areas. Continuing
commitment is demonstrated by an action plan to improve management of current protected
areas as part of the World Bank financed Forest Resource Management Project. The EAP
includes a Coastal Zone Management Plan that demonstrates Ghana's commitment to land use
and development planning to maintain the ecological integrity of the coastal region. Project
funded studies and investments would increase sustainable economic benefits from
developments that are compatible with preserving the ecology of the wetlands.
Lessons from Previous Bank Group Involvement
9.    Although there has been no Bank Group lending in Ghana specifically for
environmental operations, much of previous IDA lending for sectoral projects has had a direct
impact on the environment, through its effect on agriculture, forestry, mining and industry,
and urban development. Experience with these lending operations shows the need: to work



- 4 -
within an agreed national policy, with clearly identified priorities, in a stable macro-economic
environment; to involve communities in the planning and implementation of sustainable
resource use; to provide an institutional focus for the management of environmentally related
matters with agreed procedures for effective coordination; to improve environmental
management skills at district as well as central levels; and to provide training and support to
implementing agencies for procurement and disbursement. This experience is consistent with
conclusions drawn from world-wide experience. 2/
Rationale for GEF Involvement
10.   The rationale for the use of GET funds to sustain and enhance the ecology of coastal
wetlands in Ghana is detailed in the Project Selection Criteria Reference Sheet presented in
Appendix 1, Part II of this Memorandum. It could be considered purely from the global
point of view, but there are, in addition, important national and local justifications. At the
global level the primary importance of these coastal lagoons and estuaries concerns their
international significance as habitat for migratory waterbirds. The East Atlantic Flyway,
defined by the regular annual transit paths of several million birds shows vividly the biotic
interconnection between Africa, North America and Eurasia. The long term viability of the
bird populations that connect these diverse landscapes is inextricably linked to the ecosystems
in which they find regular sanctuary along their seasonal migration routes. The significance
of the Ghana coastal wetlands is illustrated by the fact that they regularly harbor more than
one percent of the estimated Atlantic Flyway populations of at least nine species of long
distance migrants. They form a network of resting and feeding grounds for more than
seventy species of migratory and resident waterbirds and represent the fourth largest
concentration of migratory waders and shorebirds along the West African coast. The five
principal wetland areas, the Muni, Densu Delta, Sakumo, Songor and Anlo/Keta lagoons,
provide sanctuary for over 80 percent of the migratory waterbirds stopping in Ghana. All
meet criteria as sites of international importance under the Ramsar Convention but there are
no existing arrangements for formal management or protection. The current global registry of
Ramsar sites lists no protected wetlands along the entire coast of the Gulf of Guinea - a
prominent gap in the existing regional network of conservation areas. The management of
these wetlands is, therefore, a high priority for migratory bird conservation on both a regional
and global scale. Further, the sites identified under this project include the only presently
known nesting sites in Ghana for three species of sea turtles listed as globally threatened by
the World Conservation Union (IUCN).
11.   A notable gap in the Ghana protected area system, identified in the EAP, is the
absence of units that represent coastal wetland ecosystems. Consequently, from a national
perspective of sustaining the widest representation of natural biodiversity at the level of
ecosystems or natural communities, coastal wetlands have a high priority. At the local level,
the Sakumo lagoon and Densu Delta wetlands provide the most accessible sites for outdoor
recreation and interaction with the natural environment available to residents of the largest
urban district in Ghana in addition to their documented global importance for biodiversity
conservation. The majority of people living around the other three lagoons, at Muni, Songor
and Anlo/Keta, derive a major part of their livelihood from the lagoons themselves through
fishing and/or salt winning, or from industries such as inshore marine fisheries. These
2/    The World Bank and the Enviromment. A Progress Report. Fiscal 1991.



depend, at least in part, on the ecological health of the adjacent wetlands, for example, as fish
spawning grounds or sources of nutrient input into inshore coastal waters. Both the present
way of life and the long term economic prospects of the human populations living near the
lagoons and estuaries depend on the ecological health and stability of these wetland
ecosystems. The project thus provides an opportunity to support the management of critical
conservation sites for an internationally shared resource, whilst encouraging development that
is compatible with long term maintenance of the ecological stability of the sites.
Agreed Actions
12.   During project negotiations it was agreed that GEF support for the Coastal Wetlands
Management Project would be considered as an integral part of GERMP. The following
agreements are specifically related to the Coastal Wetlands Project:
Condition of Effectiveness
(a)    The IDA Development Credit Agreement would be effective.
Condition of Disbursement
(a)    The use of the Investment Support Fund would be subject to IDA approval.
Other Agreements
(a)    Formal boundary descriptions of the five coastal wetland sites would be
completed by June 1, 1993, and the legal instrument designating the
boundaries of the Ramsar sites would be prepared, reviewed by IDA, and
approved by December 31, 1993.
(b)    Annual work programs for the Coastal Wetlands component would be
prepared by the Department of Game and Wildlife and approved by the Project
Operations Committee by June of each year, with subsequent review by IDA.
(c)    The results of annual monitoring of ecological and socio-economic conditions
in the coastal wetlands would be reviewed by the Project Operations
Committee in April of each year, with subsequent review by IDA, starting in
1994.
(d)    The detailed design and management of the education and research center at
Songor would be agreed by June 1995.
Environmental Aspects
13.   The primary objective of the project is to improve the management of environmental
resources in the coastal wetlands in Ghana, and to introduce programs for the sustainable use
of those resources. The project would, therefore, have beneficial effects on the environment.
A specific assessment of the environmental impact of discharging treated effluent into Sakumo
lagoon and alternatively, through an outlet in the surf zone has been made. Details presented



-6 -
in Part II, Appendix 3 show that discharge into the lagoon would result in rapid nutrient
build-up with consequent eutrophication, whilst discharge in the surf zone would have little
effect due to rapid dilution in the open sea.
Benefits
14.   The principal benefits of the project would be the maintenance of the ecology of five
coastal wetland sites that are of international importance as habitat for migratory waterbirds.
The project would improve the management and monitoring of the ecological resources by
both government and the people. It would help to identify options for development that
would improve the livelihood of local communities, but that would be compatible with
sustainable use of the environment. The project would also result in an increased public
awareness of environmental matters through both formal education programs at project
financed centers, and through informal channels, such as wildlife clubs. Economic rate of
return calculations for the project are difficult to interpret and may not be meaningful, as
many of the costs and benefits cannot be quantified and the assumptions depend on whether
the analysis is based on a national or global accounting stance. Consequently, the results of
economic rate of return calculations are not presented.
Rsks
15.   There is a risk that the objectives of recognizing the five coastal wetland sites under
the Ramsar Convention would not be achieved. However, the risk would be minimized
because project funds would be available for site management, public awareness campaigns
and the participation of local communities in maintaining the ecology of the sites.
Attachments



-7 -
Schedule A
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
ESTIMATED COSTS
Component                                   Foreign        LocalTotal
."',"",","(US$ million).
Program Management                        0.6            1.6          2.2
Site Demarcation and Management           1.4            2.2          3.6
Investment Support                        0.4            0.1          0.5
Sakumo Effluent Disposal                  0.2            0.2          0.4
Total Base Cost                           2.6            4.1          6.7
Physical Contingencies                   0.2            0.3         0.5
Price Contingencies                      0.4            0.7          1.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                     3.2            5.1          8.3
FINANCING PLAN
Foreign      Local        Total
................ US$ million).
GET                                        3.1          4.1          7.2
Government of Ghana                        0.1          1.0          1.1
Total  1/                                  3.2          5.1          8.3
1/ Includes US$0.5 million duties and taxes.



-8 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Procurement Category                  ICB    LCB   Others
............ .(US$ millions).
Civil Works
Total                       0.5    2.5         -        3.0
GET                         0.4    2.2         -        2.6
Vehicles
Total                       0.3      -      0.2        0.5
GET                         0.3      -      0.1        0.4
Equipment and Materials
Total                       0.7    0.2      0.3         1.2
GET                         0.7    0.2      0.2         1.1
Technical Assistance
Total                         -      -       1.1        1.1
GET                           -      -       1.1        1.1
Training and Public Awareness
Total                         -      -      0.4         0.4
GET                           -      -      0.4        0.4
Investment Support and Land
Management Fund
Total                         -      -      0.6         0.6
GET                           -      -      0.5        0.5
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Total                         -      -       1.5        1.5
GET                           -      -      1.1         1.1
TOTALS                      1.5    2.7      4.1         8.3
GET                         1.4    2.4      3.4         7.2



-9 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
B. Summary Disbursement Schedule
Category                           Amount 9rfltedFinanced
... (US$ millions)...   Foreign Lo
Civil Works                               2.4            100          70
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials          1.3           100          90
Technical Assistance                       1.0           100         100
Training                                  0.3            100         100
Investment Support Fund                   0.4            100         100
Incremental Recurrent Costs               0.9           70% to December 1995,
50% thereafter
Unallocated                               0.9
TOTAL                              7.2



- 10-
Schedule C
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time Taken to Prepare:            20 months
Project Prepared by:              Government of Ghana with IDA assistance a/
First IDA Mission:                June 1991
Appraisal Mission                 March 1992
Negotiations:                     August 1992
Planned Date of Effectiveness:    January 1993
List of Relevant PPARS and PCRs:  None
Summary Supervison Plan
1.    Supervision of the project would be integrated with the wider GERMP. The schedule
of supervision missions presented below includes three visits during the first year of the
project, to provide close supervision and assistance during the critical start-up period. In
subsequent years, one visit by a supervision mission would coincide with the review of the
annual plan for the following year's program in the third quarter of the calendar year. The
supervision plan also provides for one additional visit in the second quarter of the second,
fourth and fifth project years. In the third project year, this visit would coincide with the
project mid-term review.
CY                   1993          1993           1994         199i          1299
Quarter              1234          1234          1234          1234         1234
Supervision          *  **          *  *          *  *          *  *         *  *
Mid-term review                                   *
2/    This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Ghana in March,
1992, comprising I. Hill (Mission Leader); Ms. C. Cook (Sociologist); C. Sow (Economist);
and K. Creighton (Consultant Ecologist).



- 11 -
Schedule C
Page 2 of 2
Key Indicators
2.    The key indicators to assess the progress of the project can be considered in a number
of groups. The Technical Secretariat of the EPC would be responsible for collating the
following data.
3.    Policy and Legislation. The Environmnental Action Plan indicates the need for the
revision and adoption of a number of policies and legislative measures. Progress towards the
adoption of those that relate specifically to project supported activities would be monitored.
They include policy and legislation related to:
-     Land Management;
-     Fisheries and Coastal Zone Management.
4.    Coastal Wetlands Management
-     Completion of base line studies;
-     Progress with management programs;
-     Progress with monitoring studies and impact of management programs
on the ecology of the wetland sites.
5.    Physical
Physical achievement of civil works or procurement of project finance
items as presented in the implementation schedule and detailed cost
tables.
6.    Financial
Budget by:    - Investment;
- Personnel;
- Operational expenses;
- Program budgets.
7.    Reporting
Timeliness of six-monthly reports.
Publication of results in bulletins or annual reports of participating
agencies.
Skills Required for Supervision Missions
8.    In addition to the Task Manager responsible for supervising compliance with Bank
procedures, supervision missions would need to include personnel with skills in:
-     Management Systems;
-     Environmental Quality Monitoring;
-     Rural Sociology;
-     Wetlands Ecology.






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PART II: APPENDICES






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
APPENDIX  1.         GEF Project Selection Criteria Reference Sheet
APPENDIX  2.         Coastal Wetlands Management
APPENDIX  3.         Sakumo Lagoon. Effluent Disposal and Hydrological Studies






- 1 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX I
GEF Project Selection Criteria Reference Sheet



- 2-
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GEF Project Selection Criteria Reference Sheet
Country Elifibility
Per Capita Income    -    US$390 (1989)
Environmental Action Plans
The Government of Ghana has recently completed the preparation of a National
Environmental Policy Statement and a National Environment Action Plan. In March,
198, responsibility for their formulation was given to the Environmental Protection
Council (EPC). EPC secured the active collaboration of a wide range of individuals
and institutions in Ghana and amongst the donor community, including the World
Bank. The process adopted by EPC in preparing these national policy documents has
generated widespread awareness of the importance of the issues involved and a
consensus about the need for effective action.
F'roiect Tp
Type 2. Without GEF support Government would not undertake the systematic
inventory and management of coastal wetlands envisaged under the project.
Global Environmental Benefit
The five coastal lagoons, estuaries and adjacent seashores addressed by this project
provide regular sanctuary for upward of 100,000 migratory shorebirds annually.
Together they harbor nearly 5% of the shorebirds and waders using the East Atlantic
Flyway and on a regional scale rank fourth in peak populations of migratory
waterfowl. No Ramsar Sites have yet been declared on the coast of the Gulf of
Guinea. The wetlands included in this project provide habitat for internationally
significant populations of eleven species of migratory shorebirds and include nesting
sites for three threatened species of marine turtles.
Form of Innovation
The project will include financing for a study of compatible development options for
the communities living adjacent to the lagoons and financing for adaptation and
implementation of technologies identified as promising sustainable development
options. These may include aquaculture, agro-forestry and improved fisheries



- 3 -
management as well as expansion of the indigenous salt-winning industry adjacent to
the lagoons. Pending the outcome of engineering studies, the project may include
financing of civil works to mitigate the effects of urban/domestic waste pollution on
the two urban lagoons. Management of the Ramsar Sites will be done jointly with
responsibility for core zones or sanctuaries under the Department of Game and
Wildlife and of the adjacent zones under Site Committees within the Ministry of Local
Government involving participation of local people and traditional leaders.
Demonstration Value and Replicability
The goal of the multiple-use management regime proposed for the coastal wetlands is
to maintain the ecological balance of these aquatic/terrestrial ecosystems by
encouraging development of industries such as fishing, agro-forestry, aquaculture,
tourism and salt production that provide options for economic growth to local
communities that are compatible with sustaining habitat for the migratory birds which
also depend on these areas. In declaring these areas as Ramsar Sites, the Government
of Ghana is foregoing certain development options for these sites but, in return
receives technical and financial assistance to implement sustainable development
activities that are compatible with maintaining bio-diversity of the coastal zone. The
model of working with local communities to identify common resource requirements
(e.g., water quality, erosion control) for conservation and community development
needs, and focusing investment on those common needs is one which may have
broader application for conservation outside of traditional protected areas.
Contribution to the GEF Portrolio
The areas to be addressed by this project qualify as Wetlands of International
Importance under criteria established by the Ramsar Convention. They are among the
most significant sites in West Africa as habitat for migratory waterfowl. The project
represents an opportunity to afford protection to critical conservation sites for an
internationally shared resource while encouraging development that is compatible with
long-term maintenance of the ecological stability of the ecosystems in which the
conservation sites occur.
Sustainability
The GOG has demonstrated a sustained commitment to conservation in including over
5% of the national territory within the system of protected areas and consistently
providing substantial human and material resources for supervision and management
of protected areas. Continuing commitment is evinced by an action plan to improve
management of current protected areas financed by the World Bank through the Forest
Resource Management Project. The NEAP includes a Coastal Zone Management
Plan that demonstrates Ghana's commitment to land use and development planning to
maintain the ecological integrity of the coastal region. Inclusion of environmental and
public awareness components within this project as well as involvement of local
communities in management decisions concerning development within and adjacent to



- 4 -
the project sites will develop a broader grass roots understanding of linkage between
long-term economic prospects for the human populations and ecological stability of
these wetland ecosystems.
Monitorins! Evaluation
Baseline and monitoring studies of key environmental indicators reflecting
hydrological cycles, water quality, limnology and fisheries within the wetlands are an
integral part of the project. The project includes financing for training, institutional
development and improvement of research facilities to carry out long-term ecological
monitoring studies of the coastal wetlands included in the project. The project would
also finance pilot projects to test and evaluate feasibility of development options
identified during the early phase of the project.



GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX 2
Coastal Wetlands Management



- 6 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Coastal Wetlands Management
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paue No.
I.   INTRODUCTION   ..........................................                                                                   1
II. BACKGROUND   ........................................                                                                        2
A.   Coastal Zone Indicative Management Plan  ......................                                                  2
B.   Coastal Wetlands Management Plans   .........................                                                    3
C.   Importance of Coastal Wetlands for Migratory Birds   ...............                                             4
D.   International Conventions Relevant to Coastal Wetlands   .............                                           6
E.   History and Objectives of the Save the Seashore Birds Project   ...                                  ......      8
III. THE PROJECT AREA .......                                 .....................                                              9
A. General Description of the Project Zones ................                                                          9
B. Site Descriptions, Human Settlement Patterns and Economic Activities
within the Project Zones  .................................    11
1.   Muni Lagoon Complex  .............................    11
2.   Songor Lagoon  ..................................    12
3.   Anlo-Keta Lagoon Complex  ..........................    13
4.   Sakumo Lagoon and Densu Delta   ......................    14
IV. RATIONALE ............................................  15
V.   THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  ................................ ...                                                              17
A.   Project Description   .......                 ........ ..                  ...................    17
B.   Site Plans              ....................                       ......................    19
1.   Muni Lagoon Complex  .............................    19
2.   Songor Lagoon Complex  ............................    20
3.   Anlo-Keta Lagoon Complex  ..........................    20
4.   Sakumo Lagoon and Densu Delta Complex    ................   21
C.   Organization and  Management  ...........                             ..          ................    22
D.   Project Costs               ...................                       .....................    25



-7-
ANNEXES
1.  Acknowledgements
2.  Bibliography
3.  African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
4.  Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals
("Bonn Convention")
5.  Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
Especially as Waterfowl Habitat
6.  Indicative Equipment Lists Appearing in Cost Tables
7.  Salary Scale for Ghana Department of Game and Wildlife Personnel
8.  Terms of Reference for Studies and Technical Advisor
9.  Maps of Proposed Project Sites
10. Implementation Schedule for Coastal Wetlands Management Program



- 8 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Coastal Wetlands Manag!ement
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Ghana's 550 km coastline includes over 50 lagoons and estuaries ranging in size from
a few dozen hectares to over 300 krn2. At present there are no coastal wetlands represented
within the national system of parks, reserves and sanctuaries. The recently completed Ghana
Environmental Action Plan which incorporates a Coastal Zone Indicative Management Plan
(CZIMP), explicitly recognizes this gap. The CZIMP calls for establishment of several
coastal wetland protected areas to be developed under a multiple-use management regime with
significant local participation in management and administration. The Government of Ghana
has indicated its intention to designate five sites as Wetlands of International Importance under
the "Ramsar" Convention 1/.
1.2    The five principal sites to be established under this project represent a variety of
wetland ecosystems including open and closed brackish lagoons, river deltas and estuaries.
Two sites which fall within the greater metropolitan region of Accra-Tema have been
designated for green belt/open space/recreation zones under the draft Urban Development
Structure Plan 2010. The other three sites represent "rural" areas although human settlements
occur adjacent to the wetlands and throughout their catchments. The core wetlands of the
project sites range from 3.5 km2 to over 300 km2 in extent and the proposed management
zones which include critical catchments range from 35 to 1200 km2. Identification of project
sites and documentation of their ecological importance and international significance for
migratory birds was accomplished by Dr. Yaa Ntiamoa-Baidu under the Save the Seashore
Birds Project sponsored by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (UK) in cooperation
with the Ghana Department of Game and Wildlife.
1.3    The principal management objective for the five key wetlands targeted under this
project is to maintain or restore the ecological integrity of these wetland ecosystems. The
purpose is to safeguard their continuing value as wildlife habitat and to enhance sustainable
productivity in terms of traditional compatible industries and uses such as coastal and lagoon
fisheries, salt production, irrigated agriculture, and recreation. This project will address
common requirements to establish and manage the coastal wetlands as "Ramsar" sites such as:
boundary survey, demarcation and establishment; monitoring of key indicators reflecting
water quality, pollution, erosion, and health of the aquatic environment; site management
I/    The 'Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as Waterfowl Habitat" known a8
RAMSAR after the town in Iran where it was signed by the original parties on 2 February 1971. Ghana
has been a party since 1988.



- 9 -
personnel and infrastructure; and local public awareness of environmental issues. The project
sites differ appreciably in size and in both the magnitude and nature of present and potential
threats to their long term ecological viability. A crucial issue and major component of this
project concerns the identification of sustainable development options that meet local
community needs and objectives and are compatible with maintaining the long term ecological
stability of the wetlands. In the case of the 'rural' lagoons, project-financed activities would
include socio-economic and technical studies to identify compatible development options such
as intensified fisheries management, development of lagoon aquaculture, and possible
expansion of the artisanal salt industry. For the urban lagoons, the project would include
financing for engineering studies and civil works to mitigate the impact of urban pollution on
the wetland ecosystems and to maintain or restore their natural hydrological balance.
1.4    The principal management authority for the project would be a Wetlands Management
Unit to be established within the Department of Game and Wildlife (DGW). In addition to
routine project administration and technical management, this unit would include a specialist
on community relations and public education. A Wetlands Management Committee would be
established under the Natural Resources Inter-sectoral Network administered by the
Environmental Protection Council to provide technical guidance and a forum for addressing
intersectoral technical issues regarding the management of project sites. Each site would have
a local Site Management Committee with representation of traditional community leaders and
local government as well as appropriate sectoral agencies and interests (e.g., fishermen,
market women). On-site management would be done under the administration of a site
warden employed by DGW but to the extent practical employing local residents as community
rangers for assisting in monitoring studies, border maintenance and other activities.
Disbursement of funds for activities that benefit both the environment and the well-being of
the human residents such as improvement in sanitation facilities and water supplies,
development of fuelwood resources and modest tourism infrastructure would be done under
supervision of the DGW but according to priorities set by the local Site Management
Committees.
1.5    Public awareness of environmental issues and of the relationship between
environmentally sound management and sustainable economic development are crucial to long
term program success. This project seeks to develop community awareness by creating and
maintaining modest environmental education facilities at each of the sites, supporting the
development and dissemination of appropriate environmental education materials and
programs and providing resources to enable expansion and further program development of
the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana, a non-government organization for schoolchildren that has taken
a leading role in promoting environmental awareness in Ghana over the past three years.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Coastal Zone Indicative Management Plan
2.1    The Ghana Environmental Action Plan prepared by the Environmental Protection
Council with support from the World Bank includes a major section on coastal zone



- 10 -
management that was prepared in 1990 under the title "Coastal Zone Indicative Management
Plan" (CZIMP). Six sites within the coastal zone, including five coastal lagoons or estuaries
and their catchments are proposed for establishment as protected areas with principal
management objectives listed as conservation of wildlife or wildlife habitat and the
encouragement of compatible economic development activities such as fishing and recreation.
The single "upland" site (Cape Three Points Forest Reserve) is being addressed under the
World Bank financed "Forestry II" project and is not considered further here. The five
wetland sites: Muni, Songor, Sakumo and Anlo-Keta lagoons, and the estuary of the Densu
River are shown in Annex 9: Figure 1. The CZIMP includes an indicative management plan
for the Songor Lagoon and references draft management plans for three other sites (Muni,
Sakumo, Densu Delta) which have been prepared by the Save the Seashore Birds Project.
Common elements indicated for the implementation of management plans include the legal
designation and physical demarcation of site boundaries, establishment of core zones for
faunal protection, identification of sustainable and compatible development options within
adjacent "buffer" zones and the need for establishing an effective forum for local community
involvement.
2.2    The CZIMP identifies the need to reconcile the conservation of the priority lagoon
and estuary zones with development under a multiple-use management regime that encourages
the maintenance and/or development of compatible economic activities. The importance of
community participation in management of the proposed protected zones is emphasized as well
as the potential utility of reinforcing traditional strategies (based on cultural and religious
customs and beliefs) for regulating exploitation of lagoon resources.
2.3    The Plan also identifies needs for baseline data collection and monitoring of crucial
environmental indicators that concern the environmental health and ecological stability of the
priority wetlands, as well as the need for development of a spatial database to facilitate
planning on a broader scale within the coastal zone. The importance of environmental
education at the community level concerning ecological principals of sustainable wetlands
management is recognized. The Departments of Game and Wildlife, Forestry and Fisheries
are identified as key implementing agencies for the wetland conservation program with formal
linkage to local government through the District Administrations at the level of the individual
sites.
B. Coastal Wetlands Management Plans
2.4    A study of the coastal wetlands was undertaken as part of preparation for the Ghana
Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP) of which this project forms one
component. The resulting report 2/ prepared under sponsorship of the Ghana
Environmental Protection Council and the World Bank provides detailed documentation of the
concentrations of migratory shorebirds and waders occurring on the Ghana coast; makes
explicit recommendations for delineation of the five most ecologically significant coastal
wetlands as "Ramsar" sites; outlines requirements for baseline research, monitoring studies
and management needs for each of the wetland sites; and provides detailed recommendations
a/     Coastal Wetlands Management Plans: Ghana (Ntiamnoa-Baidu and Gordon, 1991)



- 11 -
for program implementation, administration, management structure and schedule. The
rationale, project justification and recommendations for program implementation given in the
following sections are based largely on this document and its supporting annexes.
C. Importance of Coastal Wetlands for Migratorv Birds
2.5    The ecological importance of Ghana's coastal wetlands has been systematically
evaluated with regard to their international significance as habitat for migratory shorebirds and
waders by the Save the Seashore Birds Project - Ghana (SSBP-G). Research on bird
movements has been undertaken since 1985 by local survey teams sponsored by the Royal
Society for Protection of Birds (U.K.) (Ntiamoa-Baidu and Grieve, 1987; Ntiamoa-Baidu and
Hepburn, 1988; Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1988; ibid. 1991). Eighty sites along the Ghana coast have
been surveyed and thirteen sites where large numbers of migrants congregate have been
regularly monitored for the past five years. The five coastal wetlands which are the focus of
this project provide sanctuary for over 80% of the migratory waterbirds stopping in Ghana.
All meet criteria as sites of international importance as waterfowl habitat under the "Ramsar"
Convention, in that they regularly harbor more that 1 % of the estimated Atlantic Flyway
populations of three to nine species of long distance migrants (Table 1). Peak populations of
shorebirds and waders recorded at the project sites range from 23,000 to over 111,000
(Table 2).
Table 1
Wetland sites on the Ghana coast qualifying as Wetlands of International Importance by the
1% criterion. Calculations based on Altenburgh, ea, 1982 and Smit and Piersma, 1989.
Peak counts recorded at:
Species       1% of        Anlo-    Songor   Sakumo    Korle   Densu          Muni   Elrnina   Esiawa
Estimated    Keta                                Delta/Panbros
East
Atlantic
Flyway
Population                                                                              l
Spotted Redschank         300    8,330    10,060    3.280                    550                430         |
Greenshank                500    6,900    4,770      1,180        -            -                610         l
Ringed Plover           2,000    2,860    3,010         -    3,500                 -              -
Curlew Sandpiper        4,500    14,810    6,920    3,270    7,050         4,700                            l
Sanderling               1,000        -        -        -        -             -                      4,520
Little Stint            2,000    5,790    2,530    2,570    5,780          2,610                            l
Black Tailed Godwit     1,500         -        -    1,500        -             -
Avocet                    700     1,560    3,740        -         -            -
Black-Winged Stilt *       60   12,080    4,400       900      450           310    150         230          l
* Partial migrant. Numbers recorded comprise f. 55% palaearctic; 45% residents.



- 12 -
Table 2
Peak counts and number of species recorded for principal wetland and seashore sites
on the Ghana coast. Data from SSBP-G. (June, 1991).
Site              No. of Species      Minimum Bird
Recorded      Population Estimate 1/
Keta Lagoon 2/                      72                109,300
Songor Lagoon 2/                    57                111,000
Densu Delta/Panbros Salt Pans 2/    57                 35,000
Sakumo Lagoon 2/                    66                 32,500
Muni Lagoon 2/                      42                 23,000
Korle Lagoon                        31                 21,700
Elmina Salt pans                    43                 8,600
Esiama Beach                        43                 9,700
1/    Based on peak counts of species recorded at each site.
2/    Proposed for designation as Ramsar site.
2.6   The project sites together form a network of resting and feeding grounds for more
than seventy species of migratory and resident waterbirds. On-going studies by SSBP-G
indicate that a large number of the birds wintering along the Ghana coast move regularly
among the proposed project sites. Together, these lagoons represent the fourth largest known
concentration of migratory waders and shorebirds along the West African Atlantic coast
(Table 3).
Table 3
Major Concentrations of Migratory Shorebirds and Waders on the West African Atlantic
Coast. Data from Smit and Piersman (1989) and SSBP-G (1991).
Country                    Site              Estimated Total Bird
Population
Mauritania            Banc d'Arguin                     2,038,000
Guinea-Bissau         Arguipelago dos Bijagos             980,000
Dem. Republic Guinea   entire coast                       400,000
Ghana                 Volta delta and coastal lagoons     130,000+
Sierra Leone          Sierra Leone River                   50,000
Liberia               entire coast                         35,000
2.7    Ringing studies which are conducted to monitor bird movements among roosting or
feeding sites have just begun in Ghana over the past two years. This is the only reliable
technique for recording bird movements with certainty but it is enormously time consuming



- 13 -
and labor intensive, with a slow rate of data return for time/effort invested. Preliminary data
from ring returns and observations indicate movement occurs among the principal sites but the
frequency, magnitude, and proximate causes are not yet well understood. There is evidence
that major concentrations of birds shift between Songor and Keta lagoons in response to
fluctuations of water levels at Keta. During the peak of annual migrations over 60% of
migratory shorebirds and waders stopping in Ghana are found in the Songor and Anlo-Keta
wetland complexes of the Volta Delta.
2.8    The numbers of birds stopping in passage or wintering on the Ghana coast as reflected
in the peak counts reported in the above tables are minimum estimates. Based on known
population turnover rates at Mediterranean and other West African sites the actual numbers of
birds stopping in the lagoons over the course of an annual migration cycle is likely up to two
times greater that the numbers reflected in peak counts. Although most birds wintering or
passing through the Ghanaian lagoons are assumed to belong to the East Atlantic Flyway
populations, preliminary data from long distance leg-ring returns indicate that the Ghana coast
may be important winter habitat for some bird populations using the Mediterranean Flyway as
well.
D. International Conventions Relevant to Coastal Wetlands
2.9    Ghana is a signatory to three international conventions that pertain to conservation of
wetlands and the fauna and flora that they contain. Titles of the conventions, dates of
signing, and relevant abstracts are listed below:
-Title:               African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources ("African Convention")
Date Signed By Ghana: 1968
Relevant Provisions:   This convention obligates signatories to:
"manage aquatic environments, whether in fresh, brackish, or coastal
water, with a view to minimizing deleterious effects of any water and
land use practice which might adversely affect aquatic habitats."
(Art. VII, Sect. la)
"In the formulation of all development plans, full consideration shall
be given to ecological, as well as economic and social factors." (Art.
XIX, Sect. 3)
"The Contracting States recognize that it is important and urgent to
accord a special protection to those animal and plant species that are
threatened with extinction, or which may become so, and to the
habitat necessary to their survival." (Art. VIII, Sect. 1)



- 14 -
Title:                 Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild
Animals ("Bonn Convention").
Date Signed by Ghana: 1988
Relevant Provisions:   "The Parties acknowledge the need to take action to avoid any
migratory species becoming endangered." (Art.I1, Sect.2)
" Parties that are Range States of a migratory species listed in
Appendix I [endangered] shall endeavor:
(a) to conserve and where feasible and appropriate, restore those
habitats of the species which are of importance in removing the
species from danger of extinction." (Art. III, Sect. 4)
Title:                 Convention on Wetlands of International Importance Especially as
Waterfowl Habitat (Ramsar Convention).
Date Signed by Ghana: 1988
Relevant Provisions:   "Each Contracting Party shall designate suitable wetlands within its
territory for inclusion in a List of Wetlands of International
Importance... The boundaries of each wetland shall be precisely
described and also delimited on a map and they may incorporate
riparian and coastal zones adjacent to the wetlands, and islands or
bodies of marine water... lying within the wetlands, especially where
these have importance as waterfowl habitat.
"Wetlands should be selected for the List on account of their
international significance in terms of ecology, botany, zoology,
limnology or hydrology. In the first instance wetlands of international
importance to waterfowl at any season should be included." (Art. II,
Sect. 1 and 2)
"The Contracting Parties shall formulate and implement their
planning so as to promote the conservation of the wetlands included
in the List, and as far as possible the wise use of wetlands in their
territory.
"Each Contracting Party shall arrange to be informed at the earliest
possible time if the ecological character of any wetland in its territory
and included in the List has changed, is changing or is likely to
change as the result of technological developments, pollution or other
human interference." (Art. III, Sect. I and 2)
"Each Contracting Party shall promote the conservation of wetlands
and waterfowl by establishing nature reserves on wetlands, whether
they are included in the List or not, and provide adequately for their
wardening." (Art. IV, Sect. 1)



- 15 -
The Contracting Parties shall encourage research and the exchange
of data and publications regarding wetlands and their flora and fauna.
" The Contracting Parties shall promote the training of personnel
competent in the fields of wetland research, management and
wardening." (Art. IV, Sect. 3 and 5)
2.10   Subsequent to the initial conference for establishing the "Ramsar" Convention, held in
Ramsar, Iran, several subsequent conferences of the Contracting Parties have been held, the
most recent in Regina, Saskatchewan during 1987. The Regina Conference adopted criteria
for identifying wetlands of international importance under Article 2 of the convention and
provided an expanded definition of "wise use" as employed in Article 3, Sect. 1, quoted
above.
2.11   Specific criteria for using waterfowl to identify wetlands of importance adopted at the
Regina Conference are:
"A wetland should be considered internationally important if: (a) it regularly
supports 20,000 waterfowl; or (b) it regularly supports substantial numbers of
individuals from particular groups of waterfowl indicative of wetland values,
productivity or diversity; or (c) where data on populations are available, it
regularly supports 1% of the individuals in a population or subspecies of
waterfowl.
2.12   The expanded definition of "wise use" adopted at the Regina Conference is:
" The wise use of wetlands is their sustainable utilization for the benefit of
humankind in a way compatible with the maintenance of the natural properties
of the ecosystem."
Relevant guidelines for "wise use" adopted at Regina include:
"(d) proper assessment of environmental impact before development projects
are approved, continuing evaluation during the execution of projects, and full
implementation of environmental conservation measures which take full
account of the recommendations of this process of environmental assessment
and evaluation; and
"(e) use of development funds for projects which permit conservation and
sustainable utilization of wetland resources."
Full texts of the conventions and conference resolutions quoted from above are given in
Annexes 3-5 to this working paper.



- 16 -
E. History and Objectives of the Save the Seashore Birds Project
2.13   Nearly all of the data which establish the importance of the Ghana coastal zone as a
region of major concentration for migratory waterfowl have been developed over the past five
years under a program that is directed by Dr. Yaa Ntiamoa-Baidu of the Zoology Department,
University of Legon, Ghana. Financial and technical support have been provided by the
Royal Society for the Protection of Birds to assist and sustain a program of avian surveys to
identify major concentration areas for migratory birds on the Ghana coast and to regularly
monitor populations at key sites on a monthly basis throughout the year. Over the past three
years the SSBP has expanded activities in the realm of public awareness of environmental
issues and environmental education through the promotion of Wildlife Clubs organized by
teachers at the primary and secondary school levels and the publication and distribution of a
popular magazine on natural history and conservation for schoolchildren. Through a
collaborative program, staff of SSBP and RSPB have developed draft management plans for
four of the five sites targeted by this project. Future plans for ongoing collaboration between
SSBP and RSPB include expansion of public education programs and development of
community level environmental education curricula, as well as continuation of the bird
monitoring and ringing program to improve knowledge of bird movements among roosting,
feeding and nesting areas. The major constraints on expansion of this program at present are
limits on key staff time, shortage of trained personnel, and limited funds for investment in
training, curriculum development and capital expenditures (e.g. for construction of education
centers).
lII. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General Description of the Project Zones
3.1    Five coastal wetland areas are proposed for inclusion in this component of the
GERMP. They are: Muni and Sakumo lagoons, the Densu River delta, and the Songor and
Anlo-Keta lagoon complexes within the Volta delta. Locations of the sites are shown in
Annex 9: Figure 1. The sites include the deltas or estuaries at the mouths of the Volta and
Densu rivers and three brackish-water lagoons. All of the sites fall within the "coastal zone"
as defined in the Coastal Zone Indicative Management Plan included in the EAP. Two of the
sites, Sakumo Lagoon and Densu Delta/Panbros Salt Pans fall within the Greater Accra-Tema
Urban Planning District.
3.2    Data on the size of these areas are summarized in Table 4. Each site is divided into
estimates of the open water lagoon area, a "core zone" where activities would be strictly
regulated to preserve their value as wildlife habitat and a management zone that includes the
catchments adjacent to the wetlands that are proposed for inclusion in the Ramsar site
designations. The rationale for including the adjacent catchments and thereby bringing them
within the planning and management regime of the Ramsar sites is to acknowledge that
economic and demographic factors within the catchments have direct and potentially profound
bearing on the long term ecological stability of the wetlands they surround.



- 17 -
Table 4
Size of management areas, wetlands and core zone sanctuaries for proposed Ramsar sites.
Site      Management Area   Lagoon Area   Core Zone (Sanctuary)
l_________           (km)             (km)             (hectares)
Anlo-Keta              1,200          300+                   2,500
Songor                   330           115                     500
Densu Delta               70            20                     350
Muni                      90             3                     150
Sakumo                    35             3                     100
Totals:             1,725          441                   3,600
3.3   In Table 5 data are summarized on Ghana's present protected area system and the
increase that establishment of the coastal wetlands as Ramsar sites would represent. At
present there are no protected wetlands within the coastal zone. Inclusion of the wetlands
proposed here which cover approximately 440 km2 would represent an increase of just over
3% in Ghana's protected area system. Classification of the "core zones" (CL 36 km2) of the
five sites as sanctuaries where management will specifically focus on habitat protection would
increase by 8% the lands currently managed as wildlife sanctuaries and strict nature reserves.
Table 5
Overview of Ghana protected area system and increase represented by inclusion of Ramsar
sites. (Data from IUCN Directory of Afrotropical Protected Areas, 1987).
Category                       No. of Sites   Area (hectare)
All protected areas                                      14        1,288,864
Sanctuaries and strict nature reserves                   3            44,817
Wetland areas of proposed Ramsar Sites                   5         ca.44,000
Percentage increase in Ghana Protected Area System     3.5%
represented by Ramsar Wetlands
Core zone sanctuaries proposed within Ramsar sites     ca. 8       ca. 3,600
Percentage increase in area classified as sanctuaries  8.0%
and strict nature reserves



- 18 -
3.4   Table 6 compares Ghana with the ten other northern and western African signatories
of the Ramsar Convention in terms of the size and number of designated wetland sites. At
present, Ghana ranks tenth on the list. Designation of the five sites identified under this
project would reflect a major increase in relative commitment to wetland conservation and
management.
Table 6
Ramsar sites in northern and western Africa (data from IUCN-WCMC Ramsar list, 1990).
Country       No. of Sites   Total Area (hectares)
Algeria                2                  4,900
Egypt                  2                 46,200
Gabon                  3               1,080,000
Guinea-Bissau          1                 39,098
Mali                   3                162,000
Mauritania             1               1,173,000
Morocco                4                 10,580
Niger                  1                220,000
Senegal                4                 99,720
Tunisia                1                 12,600
Ghana (present)        1                  7,260
Ghana (proposed)       5                172,500
Total:                 6                179,760
B. Site Descriptions, Human Settlement Patterns and Economic Activities
within the Project Zones
1. Muni Lagoon Complex
3.5   The Muni site (Annex 9: Figure 1), just west of Winneba encompasses about 90
square kilometers comprising the watershed of the Muni lagoon. Approximately 10% of the
drainage area in two parcels is currently classified as Forest Reserve. Within the site,
approximately 20 km2 form the traditional hunting grounds of the Efutu people who use this
area annually for their Aboakyir Festival, a cultural ceremony that involves the capture of a
bushbuck by members of the local Asafo companies.
3.6    Muni has several small settlements within the proposed site. Total population within
the proposed site boundaries is less than 2,000, mainly concentrated along the coast and the
coast highway. The town of Winneba near the eastern margin of the site is the closest
"urban" area with a population of about 30,000. The site falls within two local government
Districts.



- 19 -
3.7    The principal economic activity of the people living around Muni lagoon is coastal
fishing. Some fishing is done in the lagoon but the local people regard this as marginal to
their economy. A small fraction of the catchment is under cultivation for cassava, maize and
other crops that are mostly consumed locally. Cattle grazing is not extensive in this region.
The nearby town of Winneba is attempting to encourage growth in beach and recreational
tourism and some modest tourist facilities have been developed within about 2 km of the
eastern margin of the lagoon.
3.8   Proposed zoning would include designation of approximately 0.5 km2 of the lagoon
and about lkm2 of the adjacent shoreline as a sanctuary or "core zone" to afford protection
for breeding waders and migrants during crucial seasons. The traditional hunting ground and
part of the adjacent forest reserve would be designated as a game management area to
maintain the population of bushbuck necessary for the Aboakyir Festival to continue.
2. Songor Laioon Complex
3.9    The Songor site (Annex 9: Figure 1) includes the west bank of the lower Volta River
estuary and the Songor lagoon which is a shallow, closed lagoon of about 115 square
kilometers in surface area. The entire site falls within a single District of local government.
The principal major settlement is the town of Ada-Foah on the west bank of the Volta River.
Total population within the site boundaries is over 50,000. Settlements adjacent to the lagoon
include several villages along the coast and a number of small villages within one to five
kilometers of the inland margin of the lagoon.
3.10   Within the region of the Songor lagoon the town of Ada-Foah is trying to develop a
tourist industry based on recreational fishing and beach resort tourism. Along the coastal
margin of the lagoon, several villages are involved in coastal fishing and fish-smoking for
export to commercial domestic markets through Accra. Fishing for tilapia with cast nets
occurs throughout the lagoon but no data on catches are available. Interviews with local
people indicate that there was once a crab fishery (Callinectes) within the lagoon which seems
to have declined in parallel with the near total elimination of mangroves from the eastern part
of the lagoon as wood was harvested for smoking fish. Along the northern (landward) and
western margins of the lagoon, extensive natural salt pans occur. The Songor lagoon has
been the site of an indigenous artisanal salt industry dating back for over a century. Local
correspondents estimate that about 8,000 people are involved in the salt trade. Salt is collected
by hand from natural evaporation pools and transported to collection points. The salt is then
bagged and shipped out by truck to Accra. Eight local cooperative associations handle the
shipping and marketing. The Vacuum Salt Company operates commercial salt pans on the
northwest margin of the lagoon. Attempts were made to expand commercial/industrial salt
winning operations in the region in the early 1980's but met with strong local resistance and
were suspended. Recently the National Minerals Commission undertook a feasibility study
for industrial expansion of the salt industry at Songor. Results of the study have not been
publicly released but there appears to be some potential for major expansion of the salt
winning enterprise within and adjacent to the lagoon. Plans for such expansion should
minimally take into account the potential hydrological and ecological impacts on the lagoon
and a study of the likely consequences for the 100,000+ birds that congregate there
seasonally. A recent FAO study on aquaculture development noted the potential suitability of
Songor lagoon for development of up to 200 ha of shrimp ponds.



- 20 -
3.11   The total management area would encompass about 330 km2. Proposed zoning within
the site would include designation of a "core zone" or sanctuary of about 5 km2 at the eastern
end of the lagoon for protection of migratory bird habitat. A "buffer" zone extending about
one kilometer from the lagoon margin would be delineated where development would be
restricted to activities compatible with maintaining the ecological stability of the lagoon.
3. Anlo-Keta Lagoon Complex
3.12   The Keta Lagoon (Annex 9: Figure 1), adjacent wetlands and the immediate
catchment of this wetland complex, encompass about 1200 km2 including the eastern bank of
the Volta estuary and the coastal wetlands between the Volta River and the Togo border. The
surface area of the principal lagoons and seasonally flooded mudflats is over 300 km2.
3.13   Approximately 80,000 people live within the site boundaries concentrated principally
along the coast and the northern (inland) margins of the lagoon. Coastal erosion is a severe
problem effecting the long term viability of the coastal communities. The coast and lagoons
of the Anlo-Keta complex may be undergoing long term successional changes due in part to
hydrological consequences of damming the Volta river.
3.14   The Keta lagoon complex supports the largest "inland" fishery within the coastal zone
of Ghana. The mode of fishing is artisanal employing a variety of methods including cast
nets, crab traps, bottle traps, trawl nets and shrimp traps. Traditional methods of habitat
manipulation through the construction of "brush-parks" or acadjas to enhance fish catches are
employed in the Keta lagoon. Principal species harvested from the lagoon include tilapia
(Oreochromis), mullet (Mugilidae), crab (Callinectes) and shrimp (Penaeus and
Parapenaeopsis). Catch statistics are unavailable but a recent FAO study (MacPherson, t al.,
1990) reported that for Keta as for the other coastal lagoons, "Catches seem small as do the
sizes of the individual fish in the catch, a sign of overexploitation." This study noted the
potential for culture based fisheries in the lagoons but cautioned that "... a thorough-going
survey of the fisheries and environmental conditions is a prerequisite to the design of any
stocking program."
3.15   Other principal economic activities affecting the Keta lagoon are irrigated agriculture,
principally along the interior margin of the coastal barrier dune west of the town of Keta.
The effects of runoff from the irrigated culture of shallots on the lagoon are not well known.
Obviously the salinity of the lagoon is an important factor in the viability of irrigated
agriculture on the lagoon margin. Some potential for salt pan development has been identified
but details are unknown.
3.16   Proposed zoning within the site would include designation of up to five core zones or
sanctuaries for the conservation of critical bird habitat. Though several areas of high bird
concentrations are known, the precise location and size of these critical areas will require
further study before they can be precisely delineated. It is estimated that the combined area of
these critical zones will be in the range of 25 km2. As with the other lagoons, a "buffer
zone" would be designated to include the areas of the catchment with direct influence on the
lagoon ecosystem.



- 21 -
4. Sakumo Lagoon and Densu Delta
3.17   The greater Accra-Tema metropolitan region, the largest urban area in Ghana, has
experienced rapid growth and a doubling of population over the past two decades to a current
population in excess of 1.5 million. Even without migration, the relatively high intrinsic
population growth rate will lead to a doubling again of the urban population in the region
surrounding these lagoons over the next twenty years. Sakumo lies between Accra and the
Tema township where urban development has approached within a few hundred meters of the
eastern margin of the lagoon (Annex 9: Figure 1). The Densu River delta lies just to the west
of Accra and urban development has occurred to the eastern margin of the lagoon and along
the coast (Annex 9: Figure 1).
3.18   The Sakumo lagoon is still used by artisanal fishermen who catch tilapia, crab and
shrimp with cast nets and traps. This area has considerable value as urban "green space' for
recreational activities of inhabitants of the metropolitan region. Current development plans
for the catchment area include proposals for development of a golf course along the western
margin and of a sewage treatment facility for Accra-Tema near the eastern shore. These two
proposals highlight potential conflicts concerning development issues within the area
surrounding this lagoon. Studies done in the early 1970's indicated there was some potential
for fish aquaculture in this lagoon but there has been no attempt to pursue this enterprise
(Pauly, 1976). Human waste runoff from housing developments in Tema township adjacent
to the lagoon are a current major source of pollution that is leading to eutrophication of the
lagoon. Estimates of this pollution and options to mitigate impact on the lagoon of discharge
of treated effluent from a planned sewage treatment plant are described in Appendix 3 as well
as technical requirements for studies to evaluate options to restore natural tidal flushing of the
lagoon.
3.19   The Densu River delta/estuary lies on the coastal floodplain below the Weija Dam.
About half of the surface area of open water has been developed as a commercial salt
producing operation with an extensive system of evaporation ponds. The pattern of water
release from the Weija Dam is a major factor effecting the dynamics of the ecosystem as well
as the salt production industry. Pollution with human waste from Accra is a problem of
increasing concern. Some artisanal fishing occurs within the lagoon and along the coast. A
recent FAO study of development potential for aquaculture in Ghana noted the potential
feasibility of developing shrimp aquaculture in conjunction with the salt pond facilities there.
3.20   The proposed management area for Densu Delta (Annex 9: Figure 1) encompasses
roughly 70 km2 covering the estuary and immediate drainage below the Weija Dam and the
Panbros salt pans and adjacent lagoon (frequently referred to as "Sakumo I"). The Sakumo
lagoon site (sometimes called Sakumo II), located between the urban centers of Accra and
Tema would include approximately 35 km2 of the adjacent, undeveloped drainage area in the
management zone. The areas of open water represented in these two wetlands are
approximately 20 km2 and 3 km2 for Densu Delta and Sakumo Lagoon, respectively. The
"core zone" or sanctuary areas proposed for Densu Delta and Sakumo Lagoon are
approximately 3.5 km2 and 1.0 km2, respectively.



- 22 -
IV. RATIONALE
4.1    Globa. The justification or rationale for considering the use of GEF funds to sustain
and enhance the ecological health of coastal wetlands in Ghana can be viewed at three levels:
global, national and local. At the global level the primary importance of these coastal lagoons
and estuaries concerns their international significance as habitat for migratory shorebirds.
The mudflats, sand bars and brackish lagoons of Ghana lie at the apex of a vast inverted
triangle spanning at its widest point over 240 degrees of latitude from the frozen fjords of
Ellesmere Island to the shores of the East Siberian Sea. The East Atlantic Flyway, defined by
the regular annual transit paths of several million birds shows vividly (and realistically) the
biotic interconnection among the continents of Africa, North America and Eurasia. The long
term viability of the bird populations that connect these diverse landscapes is inextricably
linked to the health of the ecosystems in which they find regular sanctuary along their
seasonal migration routes. The magnitude of the distances travelled and the seemingly vast
numbers of individuals involved seem to defy the reduction of the problems of shorebird
conservation to a simple equation of the form: x hectares of habitat conserved = y number of
birds preserved. The regional significance of the Ghana coastal wetlands is illustrated by the
following statistics:
(a)    overall, close to 5% of the shorebirds and waders of the entire East Atlantic
Flyway find refuge for part of each year on a few dozen square kilometers of
wetlands on the Ghana coast;
(b)    for 11 of the 42 species of long distance migratory waterfowl that regularly
frequent the coast, the concentrations within these individual lagoons represent
greater than 1% (up to 30% for some species) of the entire estimated flyway
populations (Table 1); and
(c)   together these five lagoons and estuaries annually harbor the fourth largest
known concentration of Atlantic coastal migrants in West Africa. (Table 3)
Of the major roosting and feeding areas for migrants on the West African Atlantic coast, the
Ghana lagoons are noteworthy for the absence of any formal management or protection.
Effecting management of these wetlands would be a top priority investment for migratory bird
conservation on both a regional and global scale. The current global registry of Ramsar sites
(IUCN, 1991) lists no protected wetlands along the entire coast of the Gulf of Guinea - a
prominent gap in the existing regional network of conservation areas.
4.2    National. Ghana's record of commitment to conservation of biodiversity is
praiseworthy: over 5% of the national territory is currently represented in the system of
parks, reserves, sanctuaries and game management areas. Evidence of continuing
commitment is shown through inclusion of an action plan to improve management of the
existing protected area system under the Forest Resource Management Project using credit
funds supplied by the World Bank. A notable gap in the Ghana protected area system
(identified in the Ghana EAP) is the absence of units that represent coastal wetland
ecosystems. From a national perspective of sustaining the widest representation of natural
biodiversity at the level of ecosystems or natural communities, coastal wetlands are a top



- 2 3 -
priority. Further, the sites identified under this project include the only presently known
nesting sites in Ghana for three species of sea turtles listed as globally threatened by IUCN.
4.3    Local. The coastal zone of Ghana includes both the region with the highest density of
human habitation and most rapid growth (greater Accra), and rural districts that are within the
lowest national stratum of personal or household income. In the first instance the Sakumo
lagoon and Densu Delta wetlands provide the most accessible sites for outdoor recreation and
interaction with the natural environment to residents of the largest urban district in Ghana in
addition to their documented global importance for biodiversity conservation. In the instance
of the rural lagoons - Muni, Songor and Keta - the majority of people living around the
lagoons derive a major fraction of their livelihood from the lagoons themselves (via fishing
and/or salt winning) or from industries such as inshore marine fisheries that depend, at least
in part, on the ecological health of the adjacent wetlands (e.g., as fish spawning grounds or
sources of nutrient input into inshore coastal waters). Both the present way of life and the
long term economic prospects of the human populations living near the lagoons and estuaries
depend on the ecological health and stability of these wetland ecosystems.
4.4    The basic rationale for the program that is described in the following section is that
the "international" or "global" value that is placed on these wetlands by the world community
can only be realized or maintained if this value can be reconciled with the values and needs of
the people that live in and derive their livelihood from these wetland ecosystems, and if these
values are perceived at the national level where critical decision making occurs. The crucial
link is the identification of common resources that benefit human and avian inhabitants jointly.
In the case of these coastal wetlands, traditional "protection" is not an option to maintain
critical bird habitat if it implies undue restriction of the options of people to derive benefit
from the resources that effect both the birds and their own lifestyle and livelihood (e.g., clean
water, stable or predictable hydrological cycles, and sustained harvestable aquatic food
resources). The section that follows describes the program proposed to identify and reinforce
these common values - at local, national and global levels - and to maintain the common
resources upon which all living components of these ecosystems (human and biotic) depend.
Working Paper # 9, prepared for the associated project (GERMP) provides further discussion
of the economic considerations of wetland values.
4.5    Present Ecological/Economic Status. Long term viability of the coastal wetlands
depends ultimately on accurate assessment of their sustainable potential productivity of goods
and services (e.g., food, fuel, fibre, recreation, salt, flood control, pollution sinks, etc.) to
communities living within and adjacent to the catchments. Acceptance of the conservation
program by local communities may depend on the actions taken to enable them to appreciate
and realize profits from improvements in wetland management. At present the principal
direct products of the lagoons are fish, crabs, salt, and firewood (from harvesting of
mangroves). There are no reliable long-term data on fisheries productivity of the lagoons but
interviews with residents indicate a decline in fish harvests over the past two decades. At
Songor lagoon, long time residents noted the decline of the crab fishery in parallel with the
near elimination of mangroves from the lagoon margin. The salt industry is dependant on the
salinity of water entering the lagoons (or pumped from the ocean) and the amount of
freshwater inflow from natural floods or the water release cycle of upstream dams. Several
of the lagoons (Songor, Keta, Densu) which were formerly open to the sea (and thus
potentially significant nursery grounds for inshore fish stocks) are now closed. Sakumo
lagoon, formerly open to the sea across much of its width, is now reduced to modest tidal



- 24 -
flow through a pair of narrow culverts. The relationship between changes in the lagoons over
the past 20-40 years and inshore marine fish catches is not well understood. Data on inshore
marine fisheries show a recent decline in average length of fish taken, suggesting that present
exploitation is beyond sustainable levels (M. A. Mensah, pers. comm.). The former
productivity of these lagoons and estuaries is unknown but indications are that their present
production of fish is likely below their previous potential. Likewise, actual and potential
production of salt within these brackish lagoons is certainly below former potential when the
lagoons were subject to inflow of seawater. The absence of data on annual hydrological
cycles, salinity, fish population dynamics, nutrient cycles, and pollution levels in the lagoons
(though see Biney, 1982) makes it difficult to estimate potential sustainable productivity of
fish, crabs, shrimp or salt; to determine what nature and extent of interventions might enhance
productivity of the lagoon or inshore marine environments; or to determine what the costs and
benefits of interventions might be. One major aspect of the project described below is a
program to develop the requisite data base on biological and physical parameters to identify
long term sustainable development options and identify potential interventions.
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Project Description
5.1    The objectives of the coastal wetlands management program are to bring the five key
coastal wetlands identified in the EAP and proposed for designation as "Ramsar" sites under
an effective management regime, to ensure their long term ecological viability, to encourage
appropriate economic development that is consistent with these goals, and to promote public
awareness of environmental issues and conservation values. The proposed program has four
principal elements: site establishment and management; research and monitoring; community-
based development; and environmental education/public awareness. These are first discussed
below, followed by more detailed discussion of project-financed activities at each site.
5.2    Survey and Demarcation. The project would finance the survey and demarcation of
site boundaries including designation of "core zones" for critical habitat conservation, and
"land management zones" for protecting their watersheds. Activities to be financed by the
project would include border planting and pillaring; establishment of firebreaks; erosion
control and amenity planting; construction of trails and observation posts for monitoring bird
populations and other wildlife.
5.3    Local Site Management. The project would finance management of the sites including
staffing with appropriate personnel from the Department of Game and Wildlife (DGW).
Management activities such as maintenance of boundaries and trail systems, monitoring of
wildlife populations, habitat management and erosion control planting will be undertaken
under DGW supervision with staff recruited locally and provided with training in basic
principals of conservation and wildlife management. Activities to be financed under the
program include training for community rangers/wardens, construction and furnishing of
offices and lodging for DGW site wardens, construction and staffing of community education
facilities. Management of the upland areas within the project sites to enhance productivity



- 25 -
and reduce land degradation (and negative impact on the aquatic environment) would be
undertaken following methods and principles developed under the Land Management
Component of the GERMP. The project would also finance engineering studies and civil
works to mitigate detrimental impacts of identified problems, e.g., proposed sewerage-
treatment plant effluent discharge into Sakumo Lagoon and the identification and analysis of
options for improving tidal flushing of the lagoon (see Appendix 3).
5.4    Research and Monitoring. The project would finance the necessary baseline studies to
determine the current status of the aquatic ecosystems and surrounding catchments and to
carry on regular monitoring of key hydrological, limnological and biological indicators for the
duration of the project. A research station/laboratory would be established within the Songor
site under the administration of DGW with links to appropriate academic and research
institutes to serve as a base for long term studies of aquatic biology within the Volta River
delta.  The general requirements and management structure for the proposed studies are
provided in Annex 8. The project would also finance the development of a National Wetlands
Conservation Strategy. This would be undertaken during year three of the project to build on
the knowledge, information and experience developed under the Coastal Wetlands program,
and utilizing information developed under the Volta Basin Environment and Development
Options Study to be undertaken under the associated project (GERMP), and the study of
development options for coastal wetlands described below (Terms of Reference are given in
Annex 8). Additional studies to be financed under the GERMP would include environmental
impact assessment of any proposed development schemes effecting the wetlands.
5.5    Community Development. The project would support development that is compatible
with maintaining the ecological balance of the wetlands through financing of socio-economic
and technical studies of compatible development options such as intensified fisheries
management, development of lagoon aquaculture and expansion of salt production. The
project would also establish an investment fund to finance pilot schemes and infrastructure
that would enable the options identified to be realized. These would include enterprises that
both benefit the environment and promote well-being of local communities such as
construction of sanitation facilities, improvement of local water supplies, development of
alternative fuelwood resources and improvements in infrastructure for water management and
tourism development.
5.6   Environmental Education and Public Awareness. The project would finance the
construction and staffing of community education facilities at each of the project sites and
provide training in environmental education to personnel of the DGW and the Wildlife Clubs
of Ghana (WCG). A major facility for visitors would be constructed adjacent to the Sakumo
Lagoon which would also provide headquarters and office space for the DGW management
and educational staff. The Sakumo center located in the heart of the major metropolitan
district of Accra-Tema would have exhibit, classroom and auditorium facilities that would
cater to school field trips and provide regular programs on environmental themes for the
general public. The center would be maintained by the DGW but would share programming
with the environmental education unit of the EPC. Development of curricula and educational
materials, organization of special events, and promotion of environmental awareness in the
general public would be done by WCG personnel.
5.7    The project would also provide financial support to the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana, a
non-government organization focussed on developing environmental awareness in school



- 26 -
children. The project would finance production and dissemination of educational materials,
sponsor training workshops for volunteer Wildlife Club leaders and underwrite extension
activities such as field trips, camps and environmental/conservation projects. WCG would
train and supervise community education officers to work with local communities and develop
programs for the local education centers at each of the wetland sites.
B. Site Plans
5.8    Details of boundary establishment and habitat enhancement for all of the sites are
summarized in Table 8.
Table 8
Boundary establishment and habitat enhancement activities for Ramsar sites.
l__________________  l _______ _  lC overage
Activity           Unit  Unit Cost  Muni  Songor  Anlo-  Sakumo/  Total
l __________________        (Cedis)                   Keta    Densu    _   _
Boundary survey    km      162,500    48      112    250       50        460
Boundary clearance  km       6,700    40       50    160       20        270
Border planting    km      187,500    40       50    160       45        295
Firebreaks         km       60,000    15        0       0       0         15
Nature trails      km        6,700     5       10      20      15         50
Survey pillars     unit   100,000    40        60    100       90        290
Signboards         unit    50,000     80      100    150      200        530
Habitat imp pltg   ha       37,600   200      100    200        0        500
Erosion control pltg  ha    37,600   200      100    300       60        660
Roosting islands   unit  2,000,000     0        2       8       6         16
Boundary maint.    km        6,700    48      112    250        50
Firebreak maint.    km      60,000    15        -       -        -
1. Muni Lagoon Complex
5.9    Management of the traditional hunting grounds involves habitat enhancement planting,
modest restocking of the bushbuck population and construction of firebreaks along the
perimeter. Observation posts will be constructed to facilitate management and monitoring of
game populations.



- 27 -
5.10   Capital works include the construction of a modest education center, housing and
office facilities for the Site Warden. This will also require upgrading of the coastal road for
about 2.5 km west from Winneba to the proposed site of the education/office complex.
5.11   Baseline and monitoring studies for the Muni site will include an initial biological
survey of the bushbuck management area as well as assessment of hydrological, limnological
and biological parameters of the lagoon.
5.12   Use of community infrastructure funds are anticipated for construction of sanitation
facilities and purchase of a dump truck for refuse removal.
2. Songor Lagoon Complex
5.13   Delineation of the bird sanctuary and buffer zones will follow recommendations of
studies done by the Save the Seashore Birds Project that are currently in progress.
5.14  In addition to the "routine" baseline and monitoring studies of hydrology, limnology,
aquatic biology, and erosion effects on the lagoon (Table 11), proposed expansion of the salt
industry within and adjacent to the lagoon will require an environmental impact assessment of
effects on the lagoon ecology and their implications for the migratory birds which concentrate
there in numbers that regularly exceed 100,000 individuals. Results of the EIA may identify
engineering studies that would be required to define options to mitigate detrimental effects
resulting from expansion of the salt-winning industry. Through the Investment Support Fund
to be established under this project financing of these studies and/or civil works to reduce or
mitigate impacts on the bird sanctuary zone could be provided should the proposed expansion
of the salt industry occur.
5.15   Capital works proposed include the construction and equipping of a field research
center for the study of wetland ecology of the lagoon and the lower Volta River delta. The
DGW would administer the center in collaboration with the University of Ghana at Legon. To
provide reliable access to the proposed field center and the eastern margin of the lagoon it
will be necessary to upgrade about 10 km of roadway along the coast east of the town of Ada
Foah. Funding is included for the construction of observation towers to facilitate monitoring
of bird populations and for construction of roosting islands to enhance use of the sanctuary
zones during high water episodes.
5.16   Anticipated uses of community infrastructure funds include the construction of
sanitation facilities and improvement of fresh water supplies to villages on the margin of the
lagoon and possible construction of aquaculture ponds and works to better control water flow
to the salt pans.
3. Anlo-Keta Lagoon Complex
5.17   The cost estimate for survey and border demarcation for this large area is based on
the intention of adopting certain pre-existing boundaries such as national highways and
shorelines as the "official" site boundaries where this is practical. Nonetheless, there is an
anticipated need for demarcating "internal" boundaries of buffer zones and core/sanctuary
areas as the data for identifying these areas are acquired.



- 28 -
5.18   Baseline and monitoring studies concerning the hydrology, limnology, aquatic biology
and fisheries of the principal lagoons are proposed to be undertaken at the same level of effort
as for Songor Lagoon. A direct "scale up" based on lagoon surface area would require
several times the effort for Songor. The purpose of these studies is to develop an
understanding of the key indicators that reflect the health and stability of the wetland
ecosystem so the emphasis is on defining a survey and monitoring protocol that can be
realistically sustained over time rather than a comprehensive "research" regime. Studies
concerning long term hydrological changes resulting from construction of the Akosongo Dam
and related erosion problems are included in the Volta Basin environmental assessment to be
undertaken under the associated Bank project.
5.19   Capital works proposed, include the construction of a modest community education
center at Keta and offices and housing for management personnel from the DGW. About 15
km of road upgrading will be necessary to provide access for monitoring use of wetlands and
beaches along the western margin of the site by birds and nesting sea turtles. Regions of the
Keta complex experience appreciable fluctuations in water level that periodically result in
roosting areas being inundated to levels that preclude their use by wading birds. Funds have
been reserved for construction of roosting islands in key areas once these have been
identified.
5.20   Anticipated uses of community infrastructure development funds include the
construction of improved public sanitation facilities in villages adjacent to the lagoon and
possibly maintenance of canals used for bringing water to irrigated crops at the lagoon margin
and improved fisheries management.
4. Sakumo Lagoon and Densu Delta Complex
5.21   The project would finance survey, delineation and demarcation of site boundaries and
amenity planting of borders and other areas. In addition to baseline and monitoring studies of
lagoon hydrology, limnology, aquatic biology and ornithology the project would finance
necessary engineering studies to define options for improved regulation of water flow and
water quality within the lagoons and the Densu River estuary (see Annex 8).
5.22   The location of Sakumo Lagoon in the center of the Accra-Tema metropolitan region
and the easy access and recreational opportunities it thereby affords for the large nearby urban
populations, make this site the logical choice for an environmental education center that would
serve both the metropolitan school districts and the general public. The project would finance
construction of a visitor/nature center that will present regular educational programs for
schoolchildren and the public to develop and enhance public awareness about the ecology of
coastal wetlands and environmental issues in general.
5.23 A major capital expenditure associated with establishment of the Sakumo site concerns
construction of an ocean outfall for treated effluent from the Tema sewage treatment plant to
be constructed near the eastern margin of the Sakumo Lagoon. Engineering details and
costing of the outfall are presented in Appendix 3.



- 29 -
C. Organization and Management
5.24   Program Coordination and Supervision. The project would provide funds to establish
a Wetlands Management Unit (WMU) within the Department of Game and Wildlife consisting
of a Principal Wildlife Officer/ Wetlands Specialist, an Environmental Education/ Community
Relations Specialist and appropriate support personnel. A senior technical advisor with
knowledge of Ghanaian coastal ecosystems and conservation issues within this region would
be recruited by DGW to assist the WMU program coordinator in program planning, design
and execution. The WMU would be the principal executing agency for the project. Local on-
site management activities would be carried out by DGW site wardens supervised by the
WMU and locally recruited community wardens or rangers. Although initially the WMU
would primarily focus on the coastal wetlands, this unit should be established at an
appropriate administrative level to take responsibility for wetlands conservation and
management nationwide as capacity and experience with wetland management grows and other
priority areas are identified.
5.25   Intersectoral participation in policy decisions affecting the project sites would be
accomplished through oversight by the Natural Resources Inter-sectoral Network, a standing
committee to be administered by the EPC Technical Secretariat. Routine administrative
supervision and program review would be provided by the Coastal Wetland Management
Project Operations Committee (CWMPOC), the composition of which is outlined in Table 9.
The Natural Resources Inter-sectoral Network would deal with major policy issues affecting
the Coastal Wetlands Program, provide a forum for identifying and resolving intersectoral
conflicts concerning management of the sites and provide oversight and review of major
project components such as the development options study. The CWMPOC would operate as
a standing operational group to plan and review program activities. For special needs such as
the design and periodic review of the research and monitoring studies described below (Table
1 I and Sections 5.28 - 5.29) membership would be expanded to bring in special expertise as
required.
Table 9
Coastal Wetland Management Project Operations Committee
Chair:     Director, Department of Game and Wildlife
Secretary:  Wetlands Management Unit Coordinator, DGW
Members:  Deputy Director, Inter-sectoral
Networking, EPC-TS; Wetlands
Program Technical Advisor
5.26   Survey and Demarcation. External boundary surveys would be done during the first
year of the project and reviewed or supervised by the Survey Department. The establishment,
posting and maintenance of external boundaries as well as demarcation of "internal"
boundaries within the sites, border planting, and firebreak establishment would be carried out
under DGW supervision with locally recruited labor.
5.27   Local Site Management. Local Site Management Committees would be established
for each site that would include representation by local government, traditional councils,



- 30 -
district sectoral officers, as well as representatives of local industry/artisan cooperatives.
Table 10 illustrates the proposed composition of the Site Committee for Songor Lagoon. Site
Management Committees would participate in development of management plans for the areas
and approve disbursement of community infrastructure funds. The WMU with input from
local site committees, the senior technical advisor and relevant sectoral agencies will develop
management plans for each of the sites. A resident DGW warden would be responsible for
overseeing routine operations and management activities at each site including habitat
enhancement, monitoring of wildlife populations, maintenance of trails and boundaries, etc.
Table 10
Site Management Committee for Songor Lagoon
Chairman: CWMU Technical Advisor
Secretary: CWMU Coordinator
Members:  Resident DGW Game Warden
Representative of SSBP-G
District Secretary
Representative of Traditional Council
District Forestry Officer
District Fisheries Officer
Presiding Member, Ada District Assembly
Representative of Ministry of Health
Representative, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
Representative of Fisherman's Cooperative
Representative of salt miner's cooperatives
5.28   Research and Monitoring. Design and execution of the studies summarized in Table
11 would be done under supervision of the CWMPOC augmented with expert members drawn
from relevant agencies such as the Institute of Aquatic Biology (GAB), the Fisheries Research
Institute (FRI), the Water Resources Research Institute and the Institute for Statistics, Social
and Economic Research (ISSER). General terms of reference for baseline and monitoring
studies are given in Annex 8. Table 11 provides an estimate of overall research requirements
for each site in terms of "person-months" of effort. The Senior Technical Advisor will be the
person with principal responsibility for planning, design, execution and overall coordination,
supervision and review of the research and monitoring study program.
5.29 Baseline and monitoring studies will begin in the first year and continue throughout
the duration of the project. Specific studies will be carried out by: the Water Resources
Research Institute (hydrology); the Institute of Aquatic Biology (limnology, water quality,
lagoon fisheries); and the University of Ghana (Legon), Zoology and Botany Departments
(birds and other terrestrial vertebrates, plant ecology and ethnobotany). Studies will focus on
key indicators for monitoring the health of the wetland ecosystems or important elements such
as migratory bird populations, fishery stocks and economically useful plants. The overall
requirements for studies will be developed by a working group formed by the CWMPOC and
chaired by the Senior Technical Advisor. The working group will also regularly review



- 31 -
results of the monitoring studies and advise CWMPOC on the need for modifications to study
design or requirements for further research.
Table 11
Baseline and monitoring studies for Ramsar sites
Study Type         Minimum   Maximum    No. of Sites     Total
(months)   (months)  (Min + Max)   (months)
Baseline
Water quality, Limnology,
Aquatic biology              2          3          3 + 2         12
Hydrology                    2          2          3 + 2          10
Lagoon fisheries             1          2          3 + 2          7
Water birds                  1          2          3 + 2          7
Terrest. ecology             1          2          3 + 2          7
Erosion/land degradation     1          2          3 + 2          7
Sociology                    1          4          3 + 2          11
Total                    9          17        27 + 34         61
Annual Monitoring
Water quality, Limnology,
Aquatic biology             1           1                        5
Hydrology                    1          1                         5
Lagoon fisheries             1          1                         5
Water birds                  1          1                         5
Terrest. ecology             1          1                         5
Erosion/land degradation     1          1                         5
Sociology                    1          1
Total                                            5            35
"Minimum" Sites: Muni, Densu Delta, Sakumo
"Maximum" Sites: Songor, Keta
5.30   Community Development. Project financed studies to identify development options
within the Ramsar sites that are compatible with maintaining their ecological value would be
undertaken under the administration of the EPC/TS. Terms of reference would be drawn up
by the Studies and Investigations Project Operations Committee (SIPOC) administered by the
EPC, and reviewed by the CWMPOC. Studies would be executed by a team of local and
international consultants minimally including specialists in resource economics, fisheries,
agronomy, wetland ecology, hydrology/limnology and rural sociology. Results and
recommendations would be reviewed by the SIPOC and CWMPOC. Use of the Investment



- 32 -
Support Fund for identified developments within the coastal wetland sites would be subject to
approval by CWMPOC and IDA. Local Site Committees would participate in decisions
concerning disbursement of community development funds (for infrastructure such as
sanitation facilities, water supplies, etc.) to be administered by the WMU under CWMPOC
supervision.
5.31   Environmental Education and Public Awareness. Development of curricula and
community education/awareness programs will be coordinated by the education officer within
the WMU in collaboration with the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana. The WMU education officer and
WCG staff will plan and conduct educational activities to foster awareness of environmental
issues affecting the coastal region. An assistant education officer will be in charge of
operating the environmental education center at Sakumo Lagoon with responsibility for
developing public information programs there. Support to the Wildlife Clubs of Ghana to
foster environmental awareness among schoolchildren will be administered through the WMU.
Project support to WCG will finance publication of a children's magazine on conservation and
the environment, training and orientation of Wildlife Club Leaders, organization of special
events to promote community awareness of environmental issues, training and posting of
community relations/environmental awareness specialists at each of the community education
centers (Muni, Songor, and Keta) developed under the project.
D. Project Costs
5.32   Tentative estimates of the costs of the Coastal Wetlands Management Program amount
to approximately US$ 8.3 million of which $0.5 M is allocated for the Investment Support
Fund to be administered under CWMPOC supervision. The approximate breakdown of
proposed expenditures within general categories is:
Site survey and demarcation          10%
Site improvement/management          40%
Community development                18%
Mitigation and restoration            6%
Research and monitoring              19%
Education and public awareness        7%
5.33   Financial Implications. The principal elements of recurrent costs for management of
the Ramsar Sites are associated with personnel, maintenance of equipment and facilities, and
environmental monitoring. Estimates for the annual costs (for Project Year 5) in these
categories are:
Personnel                                   US$ 34,900
Maintenance of Equipment and Facilities         232,800
Environmental Monitoring                         76,500
TOTAL                                    333,500



- 33 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Acknowledgements
This working paper is based on information, data and ideas supplied by the people
listed (alphabetically) below, who generously and patiently shared their time, thoughts and
expertise during the pre-appraisal missions to Ghana conducted during 1991 and early 1992
and subsequently during the preparation of this paper in Washington, D.C. Data on
abundance and distribution of birds was provided by Dr. Yaa Ntiamnoa-Baidu, Director of the
Save the Seashore Birds Project of Ghana, who is also the principal architect of the program
outlined in this paper. Information on costs and quantities of materials and required activities
were assembled by Christopher Gordon who also provided considerable input concerning the
design of monitoring studies and other aspects of the program.
Mr. Daniel, Amlalu, EPC (Ghana)
Dr. A. T. Amuzu, Water Resources Research Institute (Ghana)
Dr. E. Asibey, AFTEN, World Bank
Mr. Charles A. Biney, Institute of Aquatic Biology, (Ghana)
Dr. Cynthia Cook, AFTEN, World Bank
Mr. Alastair Gammell, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (UK)
Dr. Barry Gold, U.S. National Academy of Sciences
Prof. Ebenezer Laing, University of Ghana, Legon (Ghana)
Dr. Edouardo Loayza, AFTAG, World Bank
Dr. Martin A. Mensah, Fisheries Research Unit (Ghana)
Mr. Yao Ofori-Frimpong, Game and Wildlife Departrnent (Ghana)
Mr. G.A. Punguse, Game and Wildlife Department, (Ghana)
Mr. Brian A. Roberts, UN Centre for Human Settlements (Ghana)
Mr. Ken Smith, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (UK)
Prof. B.A.W. Trevallion, National Development Planning Commission
(Ghana)
Particular thanks are due the Director and staff of the Environmental Protection Council of
Ghana for the many courtesies and able assistance that were extended to us during our visit.



- 34 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WEILANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bibliography
Altenburgh, W., M. Engelmoer, R. Mes and T. Piersma. 1982. Wintering waders on the
Banc d Arguin, Mauritania. report of The Netherlands Ornithological
Mauritanian Expedition, 1980. Stichting Veth Totsteum aan
Waddenonderzock, Leiden.
Biney, C.A.         1982, Preliminary survey of the state of pollution of the coastal
environment of Ghana. Oceanologica Acta, 39-43.
=........           1986. Preliminary physico-chemical studies of lagoons along the Gulf
of Guinea in Ghana. Trop. Ecol. 27:147-156.
.........    .      1990. A review of some characteristics of freshwater and coastal
ecosystems in Ghana. Hyudrobiologia 208:45-53.
Dugan, P.J. (ed)    1990. Wetland Conservation: A review of current issues and required
actions. IUCN. Gland, Switzerland, 96pp.
Environmental Protection Council of Ghana. 1991. Ghana National Oil Spill Contingency
Plan. 12pp.
Gordon, C.          1987. Coastal lagoons of Ghana in African wetlands and shallow
water bodies. M.J. Burgis and J.J. Symoens (eds.) ORSTOM. Paris,
pp. 177-182.
IUCN-WCMC           1987. IUCN Directory of Afrotropical Protected Areas. Gland,
Switzerland. pp. 222-225.
IUCN-WCMC           1990. list of Wetlands of International Importance Designated
by the contracting parties - Convention on Wetlands of International
Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat. pp.1-15.
Lyster, S.          1985. International Wildlife Law: An analysis of international treaties
concerned with conservation of wildlife. Gropis Publ., Cambridge,
U.K. 470 pp + xxiii.



- 35 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
MacPherson, N.J. eld. 1990. A synthesis report on technical assistance and investment
framework for aquaculture and culture-based fisheries in Ghana.
FAO, Rome. 32 pp.
Mensah, M.A.         1979. The hydrology and fisheries of the lagoons and estuaries of
Ghana. Marine Fishery Research Report No. 7. Fishery Research
Unit. Tema, Ghana 14 pp.
........... .and K.A. Korateng. 1988. A review of the oceanography and fisheries resources in
the coastal waters of Ghana, 1981-1986. Fisheries Department,
Research and Utilization Branch, Tema, Ghana. 35 pp.
Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y.    1988. Three years of saving the seashore birds in Ghana. SSBP-G
Publ. No. 2.
.................    . ... 1991. Seasonal changes in the importance of coastal wetlands in
Ghana for wading birds. Biological Conservation 57:139-158.
...............    . ......1991. Conservation of coastal lagoons in Ghana: the traditional
approach. Landscape and Urban Planning 20: 41-46. Elsevier,
Amsterdam.
................. .and I.R. Hepburn. 1988. Wintering waders in coastal Ghana. RSPB Cons.
Review. 2: 85-88.
................. .and C. Gordon. 1991. Coastal Wetlands Management Plans: Ghana.
Environmental Protection Council, Ghana. 140pp.
Smit, C.J. and T. Piersma. 1989. Numbers, midwinter distribution, and migration of
wader populations using the East Atlantic flyway. pp.24-63 in
Flyways and reserve networks for water birds. H. Boyd and J.-Y
Pirot, eds. IWRB Spec. Pubi. No. 9.
Tumbull, D. 1989. Ghana Medium Term Agricultural Development Plan (MTADP):
Fisheries Sector Action Program. Working Paper 5. World Bank,
104 pp.



- 36 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 3
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
African Convention on the Conservation of Nature
and Natural Resourc



AFRICAN CONVENTION ON THE
CONSERVATION OF NATURE AND
NATURAL RESOURCES, 1968
PREAMBLE:
We the Heads of State and Government of Independent African        3.12          IN lI NAI I( )N,N1. WILD1,1)1 1;. L
States,                                                              Artie 1/
FULLY CONSCIOULS that soil, water, flora and faunal resources     FUNDAIMENTAL PRINCIPLE
constitute a capital of vital imp3otance to mankind;                   rhe Contracting States shall undertake to adopt the measures to
CONFIRMING, as we accepted upon declaring our adherence to        ensure conservation, utilization and development of soil, water, flora
the Charter of the Organization of African Unity, that we know that  and faunal resources in accordance with scientific principles and
it is our duty 'to harness the natural and human resources of our   with due regard to the best interests of the people.
continent for the total advancement or our peoples in spheres of
human endeavour";
FULLY CONSCIOUS of the ever-growing importance of natural         A TIck III
resources from an economic, nutritional, scientiric, educational.   DEFINITIONS
cultural and aesthetic point of view;                                  For pur-poses of the present Convention, the meaning of the
CONSCIOUS of the dangers which threaten some of these             following expressions shall be as defined below:
irreplaceable assets;
1. 'Natural Resources" means renewable resources, that is soil,
ACCEPTING that the utilization of the natural resources must               n
aim at satisfying the needs of man according to the carrying capacity  water, ora and fauna.
ol the environment;                                                 2. 'Specimen" means an individual example of a species of wild
DESIROUS of undertaking individual and joint action for the       animal or wild plant or part of a wild plant.
conservation, utilization and development of these assets by
establishing and maintaining their rational utilization for the present  3. "Trophy' means any dead animal specimen or part thereof
and future welfare of mankind;                                      whether included in a manufactured or processed object or
otherwise dealt withi, unless it has lost its original identity; also nests,
CONVINCED  that one Of the most appropriate means Of              eggs and eggshells.
achieving this end is to bring into force a convention;
HAVE AGREED as follows:                                           4. "Conservation area' means any protected natural resource area,
whether it be a strict natural reserve, a national park or a special
reserve;
Artic                                                                   a) 'strict nature reserve" means an area:
The Contracting States hereby establish an African Convention            (i) under State control and the boundaries of which may        e'   >
on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.                    not be altered nor any portion alienated except by the            m    e
competent legislative authority,                                    0 Z
(ii) throughout which any form of hunting or fishing, any          >c
undertaking connected with forestry, agriculture or mining,      _,  
any grazing, any excavation or prospecting, drilling, levelling of
the ground or construction, any work tending to alter the
configuration of the soil or the character of the vegetation, any
water pollution and, generally, any act likely to harm or disturb
the fauna or nlora, including introduction of zoological or
botanical species, whether indigenous or imported, wild or
domesticated. are strictiv forbidden.



I ILAl ltICAN CONVENVIION                  333                3                IN I LNA<.\ I tONAL \ILDIFI:L LAW
(iii) where it shall be forbidden to reside, enter, traverse or                    c) where settlement and other human activities shall be
camp, and where it shall be forbidden to fly over at low altitude,              controlled or prohi.bited;
without a special written permit from the competent authority,                      .
-and in which scientific investigations (including removal of                   (ae)   partial reserve' or 'sanctuary  which shall denote an
animals and plants in order to maintain an ecosystem) may                       area
only be undertaken by permission of the competent authority;                         a)  set aside  to  protect characteristic  wildlife and
especially bird communities, or to protect particularly
b) 'national park' means an area:                                               threatened animal or plant species and especially those listed in
(i)  under State control and the boundaries of which may                    the Ainnex to this Conveniion  together with the biotopes
not be altered or any portion alienated except by the competent                 essential for their survival
legislative authority,                                                               b)  in which all other interests and activities shall be
(ii)  exclusively set aside for the propagation, protection,                 subordinated o this end;
conservation and management of vegetation and wild animals                        (iii)  "soil", "water or "forest' reserve shall denote areas set
as well as for the protection of sites, land-scapes or geological               aside to protect such resources.
formations of particular scientific or aesthetic value, for the
benefit and enjoyment of the general public, and                           Artick IV
(iii)  in which the killing, hunting and capture of animals              SOIL
and the destruction or collection of plants are prohibited except
for scientific and management purposes and on the condition                  The  Contracting  States  shall take  effective measures  for
that such measures are taken under the direction or control of             conservation and improvement of the soil and shall in particular
the competent authority;                                                   combat erosion and misuse of the soil. To this end:                                co
(iv) covering any aquatic environment to which all of the                    a)  they shall establish land-use plans based on scientific
provisions of section (b) (i-iii) above are applicable.                         investigations  (ecological   pedological   economic   and
sociological) and, in particular, classification and land-use
The activities prohibited  in 'strict nature reserve" under the                      capability;
provisions of section (a) (ii) of paragraph (4) of this article are equally
prohibited in national parks except in so far as they are necessary to               b) they shall, when implementing agricultural practices and
enable the park authorities to implement the provisions of section (ii)              agrarian reforms,
of this  paragraph, by  applying, for example, appropriate                              (i)  improve soil conservation and introduce improved
management practices, and to enable the public to visit these parks;                 farming methods, which ensure long-term productivity of the
however, sport fishing may be practised with the authorization and                   land,
under the control of the competent authority;                                          (ii)  control erosion caused by various forms of land-use
which may lead to loss of vegetation cover.                        ,
c) 'special reserve' means other protected areas such as:                                                                                       sQ    t
(D   Id
(i)  "game reserve" which shall denote an area      -                  ArleIk 1'                                           
a)  set aside for the conservation, management and                   WAATER                                                                 o x x
propagation of wild animal life and  the protection and
management of its habitat,                                                 1. The Contracting States shall establish policies for conservation   4 W t'-:
utilization and development of underground and surface water, and
b) within which the hunting, killing or capture of fauna              shall endeavour to guarantee for their populations a suflicient and
shall be prohibited except by or under the direction or control            continuous supply of suitable water, taking appropriate measures
of the reserve authorities,                                                with due regard to:



I 's,          IA 'LA  HINA % 1.    1)u \ 11.1 11.1 I 1. LA\%8
1HE AFRICAN CONVENTION                    335
ATticbi I'll
(i) the study of water cycles and the investigation of each       FLA1NAL RESOURCES
catchment area,
(ii) the co-ordination and planning of water resources            1. The Contracting States shall ensure conservation, wise use and
development projects,                                                development of faunal resources and their environment, within the
...i) theadministrationandcon.rolorallwaterutiliza.ion,           framework of land-use planning and of economic and social
idevelopment. Management shall be carried out in accordance with
and                                                                  plans based on scientiric principles, and to that end the Contracting
(iv) prevention and control of water pollution.                   States shall:
2. Where surface or underground water resources are shared by                 a) manage wildlife populations inside designated  areas
two or more of the Contracting States, the latter shall act in                according to the objectives of such areas and also manage
consultation, and if the need arises, set up inter-State Commissions          exploitable wildlife populations outside such areas for an
to study and resolve problems arising from the joint use of these             optimum   sustained  yield, compatible  with  and  com-
resources, and for the joint development and conservation thereof.            plementary to other land uses; and
b) manage aquatic environments, whether in fresh, brackish
Artick VI                                                                     or coastal water, with a view to minimising deleterious effects of
FLORA                                                                         any water and land use practice which might adversely affect
1. The Contracting States shall take all necessary measures for the           aquatic habitats.
protection  of fora and  to  ensure  its best utilization  and           2. The Contracting States shall adopt adequate legislation on
development. To this end the Contracting States shall:                   hunting, capture and fishing, under which:
a) adopt scientirically-based conservation, utilization and              a) the issue of permits is properly regulated;
management plans of forests and' rangeland, taking into
account the social and economic needs of the States concerned,           b) unauthorized methods are prohibited;
the importance of the vegetation cover for the maintenance of            c) the following methods of hunting. capture and fishing are
the water balance of an area, the productivity of soils and the          prohibited:
habitat requirements oftthe fauna;
habitat requirements of the fauna;          (i)  any method liable to cause a mass destruction of wild
b) observe section (a) above by paying particular attention to           animals,
controlling bush fires, forest exploitation, land clearing for
cultivation, and over-grazing by domestic and wild animals;                (ii)  the use of drugs, poisons, poisoned weapons or
c) st aside areas for forest reserves and carry out afforestation        poisoned baits,
programmes where necessary;                                                (iii)  the use of explosives;
d) limitation of forest grazing to season and intensities that             (iv)  the following methods of hunting and capture are            0D
will not prevent forest regeneration; and            -                   particularly prohibited:
e) establish botanical gardens to perpetuate plant species of                (1)  the use ofmechanically propelled vehicles;
particular interest.                                                         (2)  the use of fire;                                            , I N
Z. The Contracting States also shall undertake the conservation of               (3)  the use of fire arms capable of firing more than one
-lant species or communities, which are threatened and/or of                   round at each l)ull of the trigger;
ipecial scientific or. aesthetic value by ensuring that they are                 (4)  hunting or capture at night;
ncluded in conservation areas.



I I IL Al KRtIAN CONVENIION               I ;
(5) the use Of missiles containing detonators;                 flora and fauna of their respective countries. Such additional species
(5)  th fmsieotiigdtntr;shall be placed in Class A or B by the Stare concerned, according to
d) the following methods of hunting or capture are as far as       its specific requirements.
possible prohibited:
(i) the use of nets and stockades,                               Arlic /X
TRAFFIC IN8 SPECIM\ENS AND TROPHI-ES
(ii) the use of concealed traps, pits, snares, set-gun traps,
deadfalls, and hunting from a blind or hide;                        1. In the case of animal species to which Article Vill does not
e) with a view to as rational use as possible of game meat, the    apply the Contracting States shall:
abandonment by hunters of carcasses of animals, which                   a) regulate trade in and transport of specimens and trophies;
represent a food resource, is prohibited.                               b) control the application of these regulations in such a way as
Capture of animals with the aid of drugs or mechanically propelled           to prevent trade in specimens and trophies which have been
vehicles, or hunting or capture by night if carried out by, or under         illegally captured or killed or obtained.
the control of, the competent authority shall nevertheless be           2. In the case of plant and animal species to which Article VilI
exempted from the prohibitions under (c) above.                         paragraph (I) applies, the Contracting States shall:
A rtic'e 1711                                                                a) take all measures similar to those in paragraph (1);
PROTECTED SPECIES                                                            b) make the export of such specimens and trophies subject to
PROTECTED SPECIES                 an authorization-                                                               
1. The Contracting States recognize that it is important and urgent                                                                                          l
to accord a special protection to those animal and plant species that           (i) additional to that required for their capture. killing or
are threatened with extinction, or which may become so, and to the           collection by Article VIII1
habitat necessary to their survival. W'here such a species is                  (ii)  which indicates their destination,
represented onIy in the territory of one Contracting State, that State         (iii)  which shall not be given unless the specimens or
has a particular responsibility for its protection. These species which      trophies halve been obtained legally,
are, or may be, listed according to the degree of protection that shall
be given to them are placed in Class A or B of the Annex to this               (iv) which shall be examined prior to exportation,
Convention, and shall be protected by Contracting States as follows:            (v)  which shall be on a standard form, as may be arranged
(i) species in Class A shall be totally protected throughout         under Article XVI;
the entire territory of the Contracting States; the hunting,            c)  make the import and transit of such specimens and
killing, capture or collection of specimens shall be permitted         trophies subject to the presentation of the authorization                  >
only on the authorization in each case of the highest competent         required under section (b) above with due provision for the         (D    I m
authority and only if required in the national interest or for          confiscation of specimens and  trophies exported illegallys   f   h 
scientiric purposes; and                                                without prejudice to the application of other penalties.             o     t 
(ii) species in Class B shall be totally protected, but may be      .                                                '                       x  X
hunted,  killed,  captured  or  collected  under  special          Arti& X
authorization granied by the competent authoriry.                  CONSERVATION AREAS
2. The competent authority of each Contracting State shall              I. The Contracting States shall maintain and extend where
examine the necessity of applying the provisions of this article to     approprate  within their territory and where applicable in their
species not listed in the annex, in order to conserve the indigenous    territorial waters the Conservation areas existing at the time ofentry



I IIE AFRICAN CONVENIION                .1 I9.\1 I .1(.\ \ I(\AL \\% I.1 )LDI .11 L.A%%
into force of the present Convention and, preferably within the       2. In order to put into effect )araigral)l (I) above, the Contracting
framework of land-use planning programmes, assess the necessity of    States shall make maximum  use of the educational value of
establishing additional conservation areas in order to:                onscrnatlion areas.
(i) protect those ecosystems which are most representative
or and particularly those which are in any respect peculiar to   A rtckA I'
their territories,                                               I)EV'ELOPMENT I'LANS
(ii) ensure the conservation of all species and more           1. *re Contracting States shall ensure that conservation and
particularly of those listed or which may be listed in the annex  management of natural resources are treated as an integral part of
to this Convention;                                              national and/or regional development plans.
2. The Contracting States shall establish, where necessary, around   2. In the formulation of all development plans, full consideration
the borders of conservation areas, zones within which the competent  shall be given to ecological, as well as to economic and social factors.
authorities shall control activities detrimental to the protected
natural resources.       1                                           3. Where any development plan is likely to affect the natural
resources of another State, the latter shall be consulted.
A tick XI
CUSTOMARY RIGHTS                                                     A Tt?cLe XV
The Contracting States shall take all. necessary legislative       OR(;ANIZATION OF NATIONAL CONSERVATION                                             >
measures to reconcile customary rights with the provisions of this   SER\ICES
Convention.                                                            Each Contracting -State shall establish, if it has not already done
so, a single agency empowered to deal with all matters covered by
Artick XII                                                           the Convention. but. where this is not possible a co-ordinating
RESEARCH                                                             machinery shall be established for this purpose.
The Contracting States shall encourage and promote research in     A rticle X 
conservation, utilization and management of natural resources and    INTERSTAT  C         E     I
shall pay particular attention to ecological and sociological factors.  INTERSTATE CO-OPERATION
1. The Contracting States shall co-operate:
a) whenever such co-operation is necessary to give effect to
CONSERVATION EDUCATION                                                   the provisions of this Convention and
1.  a) The Contracting States shall ensure that their peoples            b) whenever any national measure is likely to affect the            e
appreciate their close dependence on natural resources and          natural resources of any other State.                                A3
th*t they understand the need, and rules for, the rational                                                                               (D   t
utilization Of these resources.                    -            2. The Contracting States shall supply the Organization oftAfrican Afiz
6) For this purpose they shall ensure that the principles        nity with: 
indicated in paragraph (1):                                         a) the text of laws, decrees, regulations and instructions in        _,  
(i) are included in educational programmes at all levels,         force in their territories, which are intended to ensure the
(ii)  form the object of information campaigns capable of         implementation of this Convention,
acquainting the public with, and winning it over to, the idea of    b) reports on the results achieved in applying the provisions of
conservation.                                                       this Convention. and



I ilE AFRICAN CONVENTION                341          342             IN lIlRNAI IONAL WILDLIFE LA"
c) all  the  information  necessary  for  the  complete           to the Commission of NMediation, Conciliation and Arbitration of the
documentation of matters dealt with by this Convention if         Organization of Afncan Unity.
requested.
A rtick XIX
*3. If so requested by Contracting States, the Organization of          SIGNATURE AND RATIFICATION
African Unity shall organize any meeting which may be necessary to
dispose of any matters covered by this Convention. Requests for        l. This Convention shall be open for signature immediately after
such meetings must be made by at least three of the Contracting        being approved by the Assembly of Heads otState and Government
States and be approved by two-thirds of the States which it is         ofthe Organization of African Unity.
proposed should participate in such meetings.                          2. The Convention shall be ratified by each of the Contracting
4. Any expenditure arising from this Convention, which devolves        States. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the
upon the Organization of African Unity shall be included in its        Administrative Secretary General of the Organization of African
regular budget, unless sharedby the Contracting States or otherwise    Unity.
defrayed.
A rtice XX
Article XVII                                                           RESERVATIONS
PROVISION FOR EXCEPTIONS                                               I. At the time of signature, ratification or accession, any State may
1. The provisions of this Convention shall not affect the              declare its acceptance of this Convention in part only, provided that            4
responsibilities of Contracting States concerning:                     such reservation may not apply to the provisions of Articles II-XI.              f
(i) the paramount interest of the State,                       2. Reservations mnade in conformity with the preceding paragaph
(ii) 'force majeure",                                          shall be deposited together with the instruments of ratification or
accession.
(iii) defence of human life.
2. ne provisions of this ConventionshallnotpreventContracting3. Any Contracting State which has formulated a reservation in
2. The provisions of this Conventon shall not prevent Contracting      conformity with the preceding paragraph may at any time withdraw
it by notifying the Administrative Secretary General of the
(i) in time of ltmine.                                         Organization of African Unity.
(ii) for the protection of public health,                      A rtIr XXI
(iii) in defence of property,                                   ENTRY INTO FORCE                                                       e
to enact measures contrary to the provions or the Convention,          I  Thi C            s    c     i    or  on the thirtieth day
providedtheirapplicationispreciselydefinedinrespectoaim,time           following the date of deposit of the fourth instrument of ratification
or accession wiih the Administrative Secretarly General of the         O    Z
Article XVIII                                                          Organization of African Unity, whoshaliinform participatingStates        x x
accordingly.                                                          <    F
SETTLEMIENT OF DISPUTES
Any dispute betweein the Contracting States relating to the          2. In the case of a State ratifying or acceding to the Convention
interpretation or application of this Convention  which cannot beafter the depositing of the   urth instrument of ratiication or
ttled by negotiationC shall at the request otany party be submitted    accession, the Convention shall come into force on the thirtieth day



1 IL , is ICAN CONVLN I'ION                          .144           IX' INFRNNI ONAL. WILDLIFE LA'
after the deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification or  2. In the event of sUclh a request the appropriate organ of the
accession.                                                            Organization of African Unity shall deal with the matter in
accordance with the proviSions of section 3 of Article XVI of this
3. The London Convention of 1933 or any other Convention on           Convention.
the conservation of flora and fauna in their natural state shall cease
to have effect in States in which this Convention has come into force.  3. (i)  At the request of one or more Contracting States and
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) and (2) of this
Articlk XXII                                                          Article, the annex to this Convention may be revised or added to by
ACCESSION                                                             the appropriate organ of the Organization of African Unity.
(ii) Such revision or addition shall come into force three
1. After the date of approval specified in Article XIX paragraph      months after the approval by the appropriate organ of th-
(1), this Convention shall be open to accession by any independent    Organization of African Unity.
and sovereign African State.
2. The instruments of accession shall be deposited with the           Artlicle XXl'
Administrative Secretary General of the Organization of African       FINAL PROVISIONS
Unity.
The original of this Convention of which both the English and the
Article XXIII                                                         French  texts  are  authentic, shall be  deposited  with  the
Administrative Secretary General of the Organization of African
DENUNCIATION                                                           Unity.
1. Any Contracting State may denounce this Convention by                IN  WITNESS  WArHEREOF  we the Heads of State and
notification in writing addressed to the Administrative Secretary     Government of Independent African States, assembled at Algiers,
General of the Organization of African Unity.                         Algeria, on 15 September 1968, have signed this Convention.
2. Such denunciation shall take effect, for such a State, one year
after the date of receipt of its notification by the Administrative    Author's note: The list of species included in Class A and B of the
Secretary General of the Organization of African Unity.                Annex, which is subject to periodic changes, is not reproduced here
3. No denunciation shall, however, be madebeforethepiryofabut may be obtained from the Organization of African Unity, PO
3. No denunciation shall, however, be made before the expiry of a     Box 3243, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
period of five years from the date at which for the State concerned
this Convention comes into force.
4rtleXXIVm                                                                                                                                         m
IEVISION                                                                                                                                      -    z
After the expiry of a period of five years from the date of entry                                                                          e   x
ito force of this Convention, any Contracting State may at any time
take a request for the revision of part or the whole of this
;onvention b) notification in writing addressed to the
.dministrative Secretary General of the Organization of African
Inity.



- 44 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 4
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species
of Wild Animals ("Bonn Convention")



CONVENTION ON THE CONSERVATION OF
MIGRATORY SPECIES OF
WILD ANIMALS, 1979
IN I lRNAI tONA . WtIL.DLII:L lV%'
lower taxon of wild animals, a significant proportion of whose
members cyclically and predictably cross one or more national
The Contracting Parties,                                                jurisdictional boundaries;
RECOGNIZING that wild animals in their innumerable forms               b) "Conservation status of a migratory species" means the
are an irreplaceable part of the earth'snaturalsystemwhsum of the influences acting on the migratory species that may
are an Irreplaceable part of the earth's natural system which must be    afetisln-e,ds,iuinadaudne
conserved for the good of mankind;                   ~~~affect Its long-terrn distribution and abundance;
conserved for the good of mankind;
AWARE that each generation of man holds the resources of the           c) "Conservation status" will be taken as favourable" when:
earth for future generations and has an obligation to ensure that this     (1) population dynamics data indicate that the migratory
legacy is conserved and, where utilized, is used wisely;                 species is maintaining itself on a long-term basis as a viable
CONSCIOUS of the ever-growing value of wild animals from               component of its ecosystems;
environmental, ecological, genetic, scientific, aesthetic, recreational,  (2)  the range Of the migratory species is neither currently
cultural, educational, social and economic points of view;               being reduced, nor is likely to be reduced, on a long-term basis;
CONCERNED particularly with those species of wild animals
that migrate across or outside national jurisdictional boundaries;        (3h   there s, and will be  in the foreseeable future, suficient
'         ~~~habitat to maintain the population Of the migratory species on
RECOGNIZING that the States are and must be the protectors of         a long-term basis; and
the migratory species of wild animals that live within or pass through     (4) the distribution and abundance of the migratory
their national jurisdictional boundaries;(?tedsnuinadaudneo  h    irtr 
their national jurisdictional boundaries;  species approach historic coverage and levels to the extent that
CONVINCED that conservation and effective management of                potentially  suitable ecosystems exist and  to the extent
migratory species of wild animals require the concerted action of all    consistent with wise wildlife management;
States within the national jurisdictional boundaries of which such       d) 'Conservation status" will be taken as 'unfavourable" if
species spend any part of their life cycles;                            any of the conditions set out in sub-paragraph (c) of this
RECALLING Recommendation 32 of the Action Plan adopted                paragraph is not met;
by the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment                e) "Endangered' in relation to a particular migratory species
(Stockholm, 1972) and noted with satisfaction at the Twenty-seventh      means that the migratory species is in danger of extinction
Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations;                  throughout all or a significant portion of its range;
HAVE AGREED as follows:                                              /J  'Range" means all the areas of land or water that a
migratory species inhabits, stays in temporarily, crosses or
Artiek I                                                                overflies at any time on its normal migration route;
INTERPRETATION                                                          g)  "Habitat" means any area in the range of a migratory
1. For the purpose of this Convention:                                  species which contains suitable living conditions for that            tD    ' 
species;                                                              -. 4 
a) "Mligratory species" means the entire population or any
geographically separate part of the population of any species or    h) "Range State" in relation to .a particular migratory species       o x
means any State (and where appropriate any other Party                \r)
referred to under sub-paragraph (k) of this paragraph) that
exercises jurisdiction over any part of the range of that
migratory species, or a State, flag vessels of which are engaged
outside national jurisdictional limits in taking that migratory
species;



I I IE BONN CONV.ENIION               413          .114             1\ I LR.\.\ 1t IONAL WII.IJLIIH L
i) 'Taking' means taking, hunting, fishing, capturing,                h) shall endeavour to provide immediate protection for
harassing, deliberate killing, or attempting to engage in any         migratorv species included in Appendix I; and
such conduct;                                                         cI shall endeavour to conclude ACREEMENTS covering the
j) -AGREEMENT' means an  international agreement                       conservation and management of migratory species included
relating to the conservation of one or more migratory species as      in Appendix 11.
provided for in Articles IV and V of this Convention; and
k) "Party' means a State or any  regional economic
integration organization constituted by sovereign States which    ENDANGERED MIGRATORY SPECIES: APPENDIX I
has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and      1. Appendix I shall list migratory species which are endangered.
application of intemational agreements in matters covered by
this Convention for which this Convention is in force.            2. A migratory species may be listed in Appendix I provided that
reliable evidence, including the best scientific evidence available,
2. In matters withir% their competence, the regional economic         indicates that the species is endangered.
integration organizations which are Parties to this Convention shall
in their own name exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities  3. A migratory species may be removed from Appendix I when the
which this Convention attributes to their member States. In such      Conference of the Parties determines that:
cases the member States of these organizations shall not be entitled       a) reliable evidence, including the best scientiric evidence
available, indicates that the species is no longer endangered,
3. Where this Convention provides for a decision to be taken by            and
either a two-thirds majority or a unanimous decision of "the Parties       b) the species is not likely to become endangered again                 O0
present and voting' this shall mean 'the Parties present and casting       because of loss of protection due to its removal from
an aflirmative or negative vote". Those abstaining from voting shall       Appendix I.
not be counted amongst 'the Parties present and voting" in
determining the majority.                                             4. Parties that are Range States of a migratory species listed in
Appendix I shall endeavour:
Artick 11                                                                  a) to conserve and, where feasible and appropriate, restore
FUNDAMIENTAL PRINCIPLES                                                   those habitats of the species which are of importance in
1. The Parties acknowledge the importance of migratory species            removing the species from danger of extinction;
being conserved and of Range States agreeing to take action to this       b) to prevent, remove, compensate for or minimize, as
end whenever possible and appropriate, paying special attention to        appropriate, the adverse effects of activities or obstacles that
migratory species the conservation status of which is unfavourable,       seriously impede or prevent the migration of the species; and
and taking individually or in co-operation  appropriate and
necessary steps to conserve such species and their habitat.               c) to the extent feasible and apPrOprate, to prevent, reduce or
control factors that are endangering or are likely to further
endanger the species, including . strictly 'controlling the   (D   N
2. The Parties acknowledge the need to take action to avoid any           introduction  of, or controlling  or eliminating, alreadyt
migratory species becoming endangered.                                    introduced exotic species.                                     O e  a
3. In particular, the Parties:                                        5. Parties that are Range States of a migratory species listed in
a) should promote, co-operate in and support research            Appendix I shall prohibit the taking of animals belonging to such
relating to migratory species;                                   species. Exceptions mav be made to this prohibition onlv if:



i IIL aLUNN CONVENI10N                 I          416           IN I I.-NA II)>NAL WILDLII-t  L%%
a) the taking is for scientific purposes;                      members of which periodically cross one or more national
b) the taking is for the purpose of enhancing the propagation  jurisdictional boundaries.
Or survival of the affected species;
or thevitakin if toe affeccommte atedthe needsoftraditional       The Secretariat shall be provided with a copy of each
c) the taking is to accommodate the needs Of traditional       AGREEMENT concluded pursuant to the provisions of this Article.
subsistence users of such species; or
d) extraordinary circumstances so require;                     Artick V
provided that such exceptions are precise as to content and limited  GUIDELINES FOR AGREEMENTS
in space and time. Such taking should not operate to the           1. The object of each AGREEMENT shall be to restore the
disadvantage of the species.                                       migratory species concerned to a favourable conservation status or to
6. The Conereences of the Parties may recommend to the Parties     maintain it in such a status. Each AGREEMENT should deal with
that are Range States of a nqigratory species listed in Appendix I that  those aspects of the conservation and management of the migratory
they take further measures considered appropriate to benefit the   species concemed which serve to achieve that object.
species.                                                           2. Each AGREEMENT should cover the whole of the range of the
migratory species concerned and should be open to accession by all
7. The Parties shall as soon as possible infornn the Secretariat of  Range States of that species, whether or not they are Parties to this
any exceptions made pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Article.       Convention.
Article IV                                                         3. An AGREEMENT should, wherever possible, deal with more
than one migratory species.
MIGRATORY SPECIES TO BE THE SUBJECT TO
AGREEMENTS: APPENDIX 11                                            4. Each AGREEMENT should:
1. Appendix 11 shall list migratory species which have an              a) identify the migratory species covered;
unfavourable conservation status and which require intemational        6) describe the range and migration route of the migratory
agmements for their conservation and management, as well as those      species;
which have a conservation status which would significantly benefit
from the internationil co-operation that could be achieved by an       c) provide for each Party to designate its national authority
intemational agreement.                                                concerned with the implementation of the AGREEMENT;
d) establish, if necessary, appropriate machinery to assist in
2. If the circumstances so warrant, a migratory species may be         carrying out the aims of the AGREEMENT, to monitor its
listed both in Appendix I and Appendix 11.                             effectiveness, and to prepare reports for the Conference of the
Parties;
3. Parties that are Range States or migratory species listed in
Appendix 11 shall endeavour to conclude AGREEMENTS where               e) provide for procedures for the settlement of disputes        ;     d>
these would benefit the species and should give priority to those      between Parties to the AGREEMENT; and                                I'd
species in an unfavourable conservation status.                       fl at a minimum, prohibit, in relation to a migratory species   w'
of the Order Cetacea, any taking that is not permitted for that   M x
4. Parties are encouraged to take action with a view to concluding     migratory species under any other multilateral agreement and
AGREEMENTS for any population or any geographically separate           provide for accession to the AGREEMENT by States that are
part of the population of any species or lower taxon of wild animals,  not Range States of that migratory species.



I IIL 110N N CONVEN lII4                                         INTERNAITIONAL WILDLIFF LAW'
5. Where appropriate and reasible, each ACREEMENT should                conservation status of the migratory species is seriously
provide ror but not be limited to:                                      affected; and
a) periodic review of the conservation status of the migratory      n) making the general public aware of the contents and aims
species concerned and the identification of the factors which       of the AGREEMENT.
may be harmful to that status;
b) co-ordinated conservation and management plans;              ArVick VI
c) research into the ecology and population dynamics of the     RANGE STATES
migratory species concerned, with special regard to migration;  1. A list of the Range States of migratory species listed in
d) the exchange of information on the migratory species        Appendices I and 11 shall be kept up to date by the Secretariat using
concerned, special regard being paid to the exchange of the    information it has received from the Parties.
results of research and of relevant statistics;
e) conservation and, where required and feasible, restoration   2. The Parties shall keep the Secretariat informed as to which of
Of the  habitats Of importance in maintaining a favourable     the migratory species listed in Appendices I and 11 they consider
conservation status, and  protection Of such habitats from      they are Range States, including provision of information on their
disturbances, including strict control of the introduction Of, or  fag vessels engaged outside national jurisdictional limits in taking
control Of already introduced, exotic species detrimental to the  the migratory species concerned and, where possible, future plans in
migratory species;                                              respect Of such taking.
n) maintenance  of  a  network  of  suitable  habitats          3. The Parties which are Range States for migratory species listed
appropriately disposed in relation to the migration routes;     in Appendix I or Appendix 11 should inform the Conference of the
Parties through the Secretariat, at least six months prior to each
g) where it appears desirable, the provision of new habitats    ordinary meeting of the Conference, on measures that they are
favourable to the migratory species or reintroduction of the   taking to implement the provisions of this Convention for these
migratory species into favourable habitats;                     species.
A) elimination of, to the maximum extent possible, or
compensation for activities and obstacles which hinder or
impede migration;                                               Artick Vll
i) prevention, reduction or control of the release into the     THE CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES
habitat of the migratory species of substances harmful to that  1. The Conference of the Parties shall be the decision-making
migratory species;                                              organ of this Convention.
j) measures based on sound ecological principles to control      2m
and manage the taking Of the migratory species;                2. 'Me Secretariat shall call a meeting Of the Conference Of the     oQ    W
amnehanotmro e -  Parties not later than two years after the entry into force of this  D n
t) procedures for co-ordinating action to suppress illegal      Convention.                          *4
taking;                                                                                '                                                (D H
l) exchange of information on substantial threats to the        3. Thereafter the Secretariat shall convene ordinary meetings of     eh x x
migratory species;                                              the Conference of the Parties at intervals of not more than three     0  4.> '.
years, unless the Conference decides otherwise, and extraordinary
mn) emergency  procedures whereby  conservation  action         meetings at any time on the written request of at least one-third of
would be considerably and rapidly strengthened when the         the Parties.



1THE BONN CONVENTION                   419        420            INTERNIHONAL WILDLIFE LAW
4. The Conference of the Parties shall establish and keep under    7. Any meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall determine
review the financial regulations of this Convention. The Conference  and adopt rules of procedure for that meeting. Decisions at a
of the Parties shall, at each of its ordinary meetings, adopt the  meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall require a two-thirds
budget for the next financial period. Each Party shall contribute to  majority of the Parties present and voting, except where otherwise
this budget according to a scale to be agreed upon by the          provided for by this Convention.
Confetence. Financial regulations, including the provisions on the
budget and the scale of contributions as well as their modifications,  8. The United Nations, its Specialized Agencies, the 1nternational
shall be adopted by unanimous vote of the Parties present and      Atomic Energy Agency, as well as any State not a party to this
voting.                                                            Convention and, for each AGREEMENT, the body designated by
the parties to that AGREENMENT, may be represented by observers
5. At each of its meetings the Conference of the Parties shall review  at meetings of the Conference of the Parties.
the implementation of this Convention and may in particular:       9. Any agency or body technically qualified in protection,
a) review and asessIthe conservation status of migratory       conservation and management of migratory species, in the following
species;                                                       categories, which has informed the Secretariat of its desire to be
6) rview the progss made towards the conservation of           represented at meetings of the Conference of the Parties by
migratory species, especially those listed in Appendies I and  observers, shall be admitted unless at least one-third of the Parties
II;                                                            present object:
a) intemational agencies or bodies, either governmental or
c) makesuchpmvisionandprovidesuchguidanceasmaybe                    non-govemmental, and national govemmental agencies and
necessary to enable the Scientific Council and the Secretariat to   bodies; and
carry out their duties;                                             6) national non-govemmental agencies or bodies which have
d) receive and consider any reports presented by the Scientific    been approved for this purpose by the State in which they are
Council, the Secretariat, any Party or any standing body            located.
established pursuant to an AGREEMENt;                            Once admitted, these observers shall have the right to participate
e) make recommendations to the Parties for improving the       but not to vote.
conservation status of migratory species and review the
progress being made under AGREEMENTS;                          Article Vill
n  in those cases where an AGREEMENT has not been               THE SCIENTIFIC COUNCIL
concluded, make recommendations for the convening of
meetings of the Parties that are Range States of a migratory   1. At its first meeting, the Conference of the Parties shall establish a
species or group of migratory species to discuss measures to   Scientific Council to provide advice on scientific matters.
improve the conservation status Of the species;
2. Any Party may appoint a qualified expert as a member of the
g) make recommendations to the Parties for improvintg the       Scientific Council. In addition, the Scientific Council shall include   
effectiveness of this C:onvention; and                         as members qualified experts selected and appointed by the       D
h) decide on any additional measure that should be taken to     Conference of the Parties; the number Of these experts, the criteria  , u   z
implement the objectives of this Convention.                    for their selection and the terms of their appointments shall be as  0 C  H
determined by the Conference of the Parties.                     -t x x
6. Each meeting of the Conference of the Parties should determine   3. The Scientific Council shall meet at the request of the
the time and venue of the next meeting.                             Secretariat as required by the Conference of the Parties.



THE BONN CONVENTIION                  421       422            INTI'ERNATIONAL WILDLIFE LAW
4. Subject to the approval of the Conference of the Parties, the  3. If the United Nations Environment Programme is no longer
Scientific Council shall establish its own rules of procedure.    able to provide the Secretariat, the Conference of the Parties shall
make alternative arrangements for the Secretariat.
5. The Conference or the Parties shall determine the functions of
the Scientific Council, which may include:                        4. The functions of the Secretariat shall be:
a) providing scientific advice to the Conference of the Parties,  a) to arrange for and service meetings:
to the Secretariat, and, if approved by the Conference of the       (i) of the Conference of the Parties, and
Parties, to any body set up under this Convention or an            (ii) of the Scientific Council;
AGREEMENT or to any Party;                       b~~~~) to maintain liaison with and promote liaison between the
6) recommending research and the co-ordination of research        Parties, the standing bodies set up under AGREEMENTS and
on migratory species, evaluating the results of such research in  other international organizations concerned with migratory
order to ascertain the fonservation status of migratory species   species;
and reporting to the Conference of the Parties on such status
and measures for its improvement;                                c. to obtain from any appropriate source reports and other
information which will further the objectives and imple-
c) making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties        mentation of this Convention and to arrange for the appro-
as to the migratory species to be included in Appendices I or 11,  priate dissemination of such information;
together with an indication of the range of such migratory           t
species;                                                          d) to invite the attention of the Conference of the Parties to
any matter pertaining to the objectives of this Convention;               U,
d) making recommendations to the Conference of the Parties
as to specific conservation and management measures to be         e) to prepare for the Conference of the Parties reports on the
included in AGREEMENTS on migratory species; and                  work of the Secretariat and on the implementation of this
problem e rdlating to theCnferenticer otheParties solutionstoJ) to maintain and publish a list of Range States of all
mentation of this Convention, in particular with regard to the    migratory species included in Appendices I and 11;
habitats of migratory species.                                    g) to promote, under the direction of the Conference of the
Parties, the conclusion of AGREEMENTS,
Article IX                                                             h) to maintain and make available to the Parties a list of
THE SECRETARIAT                                                       AGREEMENTS and, if so required by the Conference of the
Parties, to provide any information on such AGREEMENTS;
1. For the purposes of this Convention a Secretariat shall be         i) to maintain and publish a list of the recommendations
established.                                                           made by the Conference of the Parties pursuant to sub-
paragraphs (e), (1) and (g) of paragraph 5 of Article VII or of    
2. Upon entry into force of this Convention, the Secretariat is        decisions made pursuant to sub-paragraph (h) of that
provided by the Executive Director of the United  Nations              paragraph;                                                       a    3
Environment Programme. To the extent and in the manner he                                                                                  D H
considers appropriate, he may be assisted by suitable inter-              to provide for the general public information concerning      "I x x
governmental and non-governmental, international or national          this Convention and its objectives; and                           o Z r)
agencies and bodies technically qualified in protection, conservation  k) to perform any other function entrusted to it under this
and management of wild animals.                                        Convention or by the Conference of the Parties.



T'HE BONN CONVENTION                  423        424             IN'T'ER,AlnoNAL WILDLIFE LAW
ArlickX                                                            communicated to the Secretariat not less than 60 days before the
AMENDMENT OF THE CONVENTION                                        meeting begins. The Secretariat shall, immediately after the last day
for submission of comments, communicate to the Parties all
1. This Convention may be amended at any ordinary or               comments submitted by that day.
extraordinary meeting of the Conference Of the Parties.
4. Amendments shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of
2. Proposals for amendment may be made by any Party.               Parties present and voting.
3. The text of any proposed amendment and the reasons for it shall  5. An amendment to the Appendices shall enter into force for all
be communicated to the Secretary at least one hundred and fifty    Parties 90 days after the meeting of the Conference of the Parties at
days before the meeting at which it is to be considered and shall  which it was adopted, except for those Parties which make a
promptly be communicated by the Secretary to all Parties. Any      reservation in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Article.
comments on the text by the Parties shall be communicated to the
Secretariat not less than sixty days before the meeting begins. The  6. During the peiod or9O days provided for in paragraph 5 of this
Secretariat shall, immediately after the last day for submission of  Article, any Party may by notirication in writing to the Depositary
comments, communicate to the Parties all comments submitted by     make a reservation with respect to the amendment. A reservation to
an amendment may be withdrawn by written notification to the
4            . Amendments shall.be adopted by a two-thirds majorityof  Depositary and thereupon the amendment shall enter into force for
4. Amendments shall be adopted by -a two-thirds maJOrity Of        thtPrty9  asatrtereevtoswtdan
Parties present and voting.                                        that Party 90 days after the reservation Is withdrawn.
5. An amendment adopted shall enter into force for all Parties
which have accepted it on the first day of the third month following  Artitd X/l
the date on which two-thirds of the Parties have deposited an      EFFECT ON INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS AND
instrument of acceptance with the Depositary. For each Party which  OTHER LEGISLATION
deposits an instrument of acceptance after the date on which two-  I. Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the codirication and
thirds of the Parties have deposited an instrument of acceptance, the  development of the law of the sea by the United Nations Conference
amendment shall enter into fome for that Party on the first day of the  onvelopmentof the Sea convened pursuant to Resolution 2750 C
third month following the deposit of its instrument of acceptance.  (XXV) of the General Assembly of the United Nations nor the
A rtide XI                                                         present or future claims and legal views of any State concerning the
law of the sea and the nature and extent of coastal and flag State
AMENDMENT OF THE APPENDICES                                        jurisdiction.-
1. Appendices I and 11 may be amended at any ordinary or           2             ons of this Convention shall in no
extraordinary meeting of the Conference of the Parties.                The provisio                               way affect the
rights or obligations of any Party deriving from any existing treaty
2. Proposals for amendment may be made by any Party.               convention or agreement.           .
3. The text of any proposed amendment and the reasons for it,      3. The provisions of this Convention shall in no way affect the right  o    H
based  on  the  best scientific  evidence  available, shall be     of Parties to adopt stricter domestic measures concerning the         >x
communicated to the Secretariat at least 150 days before the meeting  conservation of migratory species listed in Appendices I and 11 or to  vD . F
and shall promptly be communicated by the Secretariat to all       adopt domestic measures concerning the conservation of species not
Parties. Any comments on the text by the Parties shall be          listed in Appendices I and 11.



'IlHE IIOXN CONVENTIlON              425        42A            IN MLRNATiONAL W'ILLIFE LAW
A rlick XliI                                                     deposited with the Government of the Federal Republic of
SEiTLEMENT OF DISPUTES                                           Germany, which shall be the Depositary.
1. Any dispute which may arise between two or more Parties with  Artice XVII
respect to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this  ACCESSION
Convention shall be subject to negotiation between the Parties     After the twenty-second day orJune 1980 this Convention shall be
involved in the dispute.                                         open for accession by all non-signatory States and any regional
economic integration organization. Instruments of accession shall
2. If the dispute cannot be resolved in accordance with paragraph  be deposited with the Depositary.
I of this Article, the Parties may, by mutual consent, submit the
dispute to arbitration, in particular that of the Perrnanent Court of  A rtick  XVIII
Arbitration at The Hague, and the Parties submitting the dispute
shall be bound by the arbital decision.                          ENTRY INTO FORCE
*  This Convention shall enter into force on the first day of the
Antick XIV                                                       third month following the date of deposit of the fifteenth instrument
RESERVATIONS                                                     of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession with the
1. The provisions of this Convention shall not be subject to general  Depositary.
reservations. Specific reservations may be entered in accordance  2. For each State or each regional economic intergration
with the provisions of this Article and Article XI.              organization which ratifies, accepts or approves this Convention or        rJ
accedes thereto after the deposit of the fifteenth instrument of
2. Any State or any regional economic integration organization   ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention shall
may, on depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance,   enter into force on the first day of the third month following the
approval or accession, enter a specific reservation with regard to the  deposit by such State or such organization of its instrument of
presence on either Appendix I or Append;x II or both, of any     ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
migratory species and shall then not be regarded as a Party in regard
to the subject of that reservation until ninety days after the   Artick XIX
Depositary has transmitted to the Parties notification that such
reservation has been withdrawn.                                  DENUNCIATION
Any Party may denounce this Convention by written notification
A rtick XV                                                       to the Depositary at any time. The denunciation shall take effect
SIGNATURE                                                        twelve months after the Depositary has received the notification.
This Convention shall be open for signature at Bonn for all States  Artick XX
and any regional economic integration organization until the                   ,Q e
twenty-second day ofJune 1980.                                   DEPOSITARY                                .
1. The original of this Convention,-in the English, French,           3
A rtic XVI                                                       German, Russian and Spanish languages, each version being equal-  o r H
Iv authentic, shall be deposited with the Depositary. The Depositary
RATIFICATION, ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL                               shall transmit certified copies of each of these versions to all States
This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or  and all regional economic integration organizations that have signed
approval. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be  the Convention or deposited instruments of accession to it.



I IlL ItONN ('ONVLN'I'ION             427
2. The Depositary shall, after consultation with the Governments
concerned, prepare official versions of the text of this Convention in
the Arabic and Chinese languages.
3. The Depositary shall inform all signatory and acceding States
and all signatory and acceding regional economic integration
organizations and the Secretariat of signatures, deposit of
instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, entry
into forme of this Convention, amendments thereto, specific
reservations and notifications of denunciation.
4. As soon as this Convention enters into force, aeertified copy
thereof shall be transmitted by the Depositary to the Secretariat of
the United Nations for rcgistration and publication in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly
authorized to the effect, have signed the present Convention.
DONE at Bonn, this 23rd day ofJune 1979.
Author's note: The Appendices I and 11, which are subject to periodic
changes, are not reproduced here but may be obtained from the
Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, Bonn, Federal
Republic of Germany.
m
O tD H
IhX X >
vD .> r.o



- 54 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 5
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance.
especially as Waterfowl Habitat



- 55 -                                                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 5
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance                                               Page 1 of 4
epecially as Watei jowl Habitat
Ramsar, 2.2.1971
as amended by the Paris Protocol of 3.12.1982
The Contracting Parties.                                                                                 Article 3
Recognizing the interdependence of Man and his environment:                 I. The Contracting Parties shall formulate and implement their
Considering the fundamental ecological functions of wetlands as                planning so as to promote the conscrvation of the wetlands in.
regulators  or water regimes  and  as  habitats  supporting  a                 cluded in the [ ist, and as rar as possible the wise use of wetlands
characteristic flora and fauna. especially waterfowl:                         in Lheir territory.
Being convinced that wetlands constitute a resource of great                2. Each Contracting Party shall arrange to be informed at the
ecunumic cultural. scientiric, and recreational value. the loss of            ettieSt possible time if the ecological character of any wetland
'thich would be irrepaLrable:                                                 in its territory and included in the list has changed, is changing
or is likely to change as the tesult of technological
Desiring to stem  the progressive encroachment on and loss of                  developments. pollution or other human interference. [Aforma-
-cilands~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeopet nowuio and                                              othe thea futuree;lffom
wetlands now and in the future:                                                tion on such changes shall be passed without delay to the
RecognizIng that waterfowl in their seasonal migrations may trans-             organization  or government responsible for the continuing
cend frontiers and so should be regarded u  an international                   bureau duties specafied in Article 8.
resource:
Being conrident that the conservation of wetlands and their flora                                       Aticle 4
and fauna can be ensured by combining  tar-sighted  national                I Each Contracting Parry shall promote the conServation of
pulicies wvish co-ordinated inte-rnationnl action;                            wetlands and waterfowl by establishing nature reserves on
Have agreed as follows:                                                       wetlands, whether they are included in the I ist or not, and pro-
Article I                                         vide adequately for their wardening.
2. Where a Contracting Party in its urgent national interest, deletes
I For the purpose of this Convention wvetlands are areas of marsh,             rrsrcstebudre   fawtadicue  nteLs,i
I-en. peatland or water whether natural ur antif-cial. permanent            or restricts the boundaries Of a wetland included in the list. it
ten.mpeatin orary. aw er, w hether nhat urali or atifci nl , permanent     should  as   rar  as  possible   compensate   for  any  loss  of  wetland
or temporary, with water that IS static or flowing rresh.
brackish or salt. ineluding treas of marine water the depth of              resources, and in particular it should create additional nature
reserves for waterfowl and tor the protection, either in the same
which as low tide does not exceed six metres.                               area or elsewhere, Of an adequate ponion of the original
Fur the purpose  ol this Convention  waterfowl are birds                    habitat.
scululicallv dependeni on %%cilands.
3. The Contracting Parties shall encourage research and the ex-
change of data and publications regarding wetlands and their
Article 2                                         flora and fauna.
Each Cotitracting Party shall designate suitable wetlands within         4. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour through management
its tcrriiurv fsr inclusiun in a t ist ol Wetlands of Internationial       Lo increase waterfowl populations on appropriate wetiands.
litipuriancc. hcreiialfter rcl'crred to as "the l ist" which is main-
aisicd hv ihl bureau establishcd under Article S. The boundaries        5 The Contrcting Parties shall promote the trainng of personnel
ii ctich "etland shall be precisely dess:rtbed and also delimited         competent in the t'ields of  tciland research, management and
in a map and ihey may incurporate riparian and coastal zones                wardeing
zdjaccni to the sweslands, and islands or bodies of marine wtater
deeper than six metres at low tide lying within the wetlands.                                        Article S
espe%tallt %%here these have importance as waterfowl habitat.            The Cuntracting Partics shall consult %vinh each other about imn
' Wetlands should be selected for the I ist on account ut their in-      plementing obligations arising from  the Contention especially in
ternational siigniicance in terms of ecology, botany, zoolugy,           the case ot a wetland extending over the territories of more than
limnology or livdrology. In the lirst instance wetlands of inter-       one Contracting Party or where a vater system is shared by Con-
national importance to waterfowvl at any season should be in-           tracting Parties. They shall at the tame time endeavour to co-
luded.                                                                  ordinate and support present and future policies and regulations
3. The inclusion of a wetteand in she List does nut prejudice she ex-      concerning the cons:rvation of wetlands and their tlora and fauna.
clusive sovereign rights of the Contracting Party in wrhose ter-
ritory the wetland is siuated.                                                                       Arlicle 6'
4. Each Contracting Pany shaU designate at Iast one wetland to
be included in the UIst when signing this Convention or when            I. The Contracting Parties shall. a the necessity arises, convene
depositing its instrument of ratifcation or accession, as provid-          Conferences on the Conservation of Wetlands and Wateifowl.
ed in Article 9.                                                        2. The Conferences shall have an advisory character and shall be
. Any Contracting Party shall.have the right to add to the Iist fur-           cmptent. inter alia:
ther wetlands situated within its territory, to extend the boun-           (a) io diwss the implementation of this Convention;
daries of those wetlands already included by it in the list, or.           (b) to discuss additions to and changes in the List;
because of its urgent national interests, to delete or restrict the        (c) to consider informatior regarding chanies in the ecological
boundaries of wetlands already included by it in the list and                  character of wetlands included in the I itl provided in accor-
shall, at the earliest possible time, inform  the organization or              dance with ptrgraph 2 of Article 3:
government responsible  ror the continuing  bureau  duties
specified in Article 8 of any such changes.                                (d) to make general or specific recommendations to the Con-
6. Each Contracting Party shall consider its international respon-                tracting Parties regarding  the conservalti0n  management
sibilities for the conservation, management and wise use of                    and wise use of wetlands and their flora and fauna.
rrigratory stocks of waterfowl, both when designating entries              (e) to request relevant international bodies to prepare reports
for the list and when exercising its right so change entries in the            and statistics on matters tthich are essenstally international
list relating to wetlands within its territory,                                in character affecting wetlands;



- 56 -                                                     APPENDIX 2
Annex 5
Page ' of
3. rhe Contracting Parties shail ensure that those responsible Ut &Ll                              ArtiCle 10 big
levels for wetlands management shall be informed of. and take          1. This Convention may be anended at a meeting of the Contrac-
into consideration. recommendations of such Conferences coon-            ting Panies convened ror that purpose in accordance with thit
cerning Ehe cdnservation. management and wise use of wetiands             article.
atnd their nor and faunL                                              2. ProposaIs for amendment may be made by any Contracting Par
Anice '                                          ty
1. The representatives of the Contracting Paties at such Con-            3. The text of any proposed amendment and the reasons for it shall
rerences should include personrr who are expert on wetlands or           be communicated to the organization or government performing
waterfowl by reason of knowledge and experience gained in                the continuing bureau duties under the Convention (hereinafter
scientific, administrative or other appropriate capacities.               referred to as "the Bureau") and shall promptlY be com-
2. Each of the Contracting Parties represented at a Conference              municated by the Bureau to all Contracting Parties. Any com-
shall have one vote, recommendations being adopted by a sin-             ments on the text by the Contracting Parti:s stall be com.
pie majority of the votes cast, provided that not less than half          nunicated to the Bur-Su within three months of the date on
the Contracting Parties cast votes,                                      which the amendments were communicated to the Contracting
Parties by the Bureau. The Bureau shall. immediately after the
Article I                                       last day for submission of comments, communicate to the Con-
1. The International Union  for Conservation of Nature and                   tracting Parties all comments submitLed by that day.
Natural Resources shall perform  the continuing bureau duties          4. A meeting of Contracting Parties to consider an amendment
under this Convention until such time as another organization             communicated in accordance with paragraph 3 shall be conven.
or government is appointed by a majority of two-thirds of adl             d by the Bureau upon the written request of one third of the
Contracting Parties.                                                      Contracting Patnies. The Bureau shall consult the Parties con-
2. The continuing bureau duties shall be, inter alia:                        cerning the time and venue of the meeting.
(a) to assist in the convening and organizing of Conferences           S. Amendments shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the
speciried in Article 6:                                               Contracting Parties present and voting.
(b) to maintain the List of Wetlands of International Impor.           6. An amendment adopted shall enter into force for the Contrac-
tance and to be informed by the Contracting Parties of any            ting Panies which have accepted it on the first day of the fourth
additions. extensions, deletions or restrictions concerning           month rollowing the date on which two thirds of the Contrac-
wetlands included in the List provided in accordance with             ring Parties have deposited an instrument of acceptance with the
peragraph 5 of Article 2;                                             Depositary. For each Contracting Pany which deposits an in-
(c) to be informed by the Contracting Parties of any changes in           strument of acceptance after the date on which two thirds of the
the ecological character or wetlands included in the List pro-        Contracting Parties have deposited an instrument of acceptance.
vided in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 3:                    the amendment shall enter into force on the first day of the
fourth month following the date of the deposit of its instrument
(d) to forward notification of any alterations to the IList, or           of acceptace
changes in character of wetlands included therein. to all                    P
Conratcting Parties and to arrange for these matters to be
criscussed at the next Conference;
(e) to make known to the Contracting Party concerned, the                                          Aticld  11
recommendations of the Conferences in repecs   of such             I. This Convention shall continue in force for an inderinite period.
alterations to the List or of changes in the character of          2. Any Contracting Party may denounce this Convention after a
wetlands included therein.                                            period of five yeas from the daie on which it entered into force
for that Pany by giving written notice thereom to the Dpositary.
Article 9                                        Denunciation shall take effect four months after the day on
1. This Convention shall remain open for signature indefinitely.             which notice throf is received by the Depositary
2. Any member of the United Nations or of one of the Spedalized
Agencies or of the International Atomic Energy Agney or Par-                                       Article 12
cy to the Statute of the International Court of Justice may            1. The Depositary shaU inform all States that have signed and ac-
become a Party to this Convention by:                                     ceded to this Convention an soon as posible of:
(a) hignassure without reservation a to raalfleszioa.                    (a) signatur  to the Convention:
(b) signature subject to ratification followetd by milleanion;            Cb) deposits of instrumens of ratification of this Convention:
c) accession. 
(c) deposits of instruments of accesion to this Convention:
3. Ratification or accession shall be effected by the deposit of an           d) the date of entry into force of this Convention;
instrument of ratification or accession with the Director-General
of the United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural                (e) notifications of dentcunction of this Convention.
Organization (hereinafter referred to u "the Depositary").             2. When this Convention hau entered into rorce, the Depositary
shall have it registered with the Secretariat of the United Nations
Artide 10                                        in accordance with Article 102 of the Cbater.
1. This Convention shaU enter into force four months after ttven             IN  WITNEySiS  WHEREOF. the  undersigned, being  duly
States have become Paties to this Convention in t  cordance               authorized to that effect  ha  signedzhls. Conventirt.
with paragraph 2 of Article 9.                                            DONE at Ramsar this 2nd day of February 1971. in a single
2. Thereafter this Convention shaU enter into force for each Con-            original in the English. French Gmn  and Russia languagets.
tracting Party four months after the day of iu signature without          all texut being equally authentic' which shall be deposited witn
reservation as to ratiflcation, or iu deposit of an n nrument of          the Depositars which shall send true copies thereof to all Con-
ratification or accession.                                                tracting Parties.
I These anries have been amended by ihe Cunference uf the Parties un :7.5.19M7 hsme amendments are nut yet in futce ier separate dsumente).
2 Pursuant so ihr Final Act ut the Cunference to cunclude the Pruluouc. he Oepusitary provided the secund Conference or ihe Coniracting Panii ia th ufriciai Ur'
siuns of the Cunvenrun in ihe Arabic. Chinese and Spanish lanrgtages. prepared ise cuniultaisun .mih ntertsted Guernmentes and isih the assitiane of the
Burcau.



- 57 -                             APPENDIX 2
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
COCS'VT1O0  OS W=ELAIS OF INTEL'(ATZOrAL IfQORTAYCE
zSnECIALLY AS WATERFOWL HABITAT
Third Meeting of the Conference of the Contracting Parties
27 May to 5 June 1987
Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada
Recommendation 3.3
Wise ase-of wetlands
RECALLING that Contracting Parties to the Convention on Wetlands of
International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat  formulwte 5:d
implement their planning so as to promote ... the vise use of wetlands irt
theZr territory";
DMPEASIZING the need to develop a definition of vise use, in order to quide
Contsracting Parties in their implameatation of the Convention;
IOTIEG that Recommendations 1.5 of the First Meeting and 2.3 of the Second
Meeing of the Conference of the Contracting Parties referred to tho need for
national wetland policies in order to jronote wise use;
flflWG NOTE of the deliberations and conclusions of the Workshop on Wise Use
at the present Meeting;
Tzf- CONFER;ICE Or THE COSTRACTIG PARTIES
RECOMMENDS that the Contracting Parties adopt the definition of vise use
established by the Conference of the Contracting Parties at its Third Meeting,
hold at Regina, and included in the A=nex to the Regina Recommendations;
FaRR RZCOHMEDS-that-tebC1ntracting Parties-give- particular--attention to
the wise use of wetlands by promotion of wetland policies containing elements
(a) to (f) from the first part of the Guidelines on vise use included in the
Annex to the Regina Reconnendations: and
FURTMER RECOMM4SDS that, while detailed policies are being established,
iitni5aite action be-taken to stimulate vise use, including actions (a) to (6)
from the second part of the GCidelines on wise use included in the Annex to
the Regina Reconwendatlons.



- 58 -                              APPENDIX 2
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
ThFoRaLTtOW os WISfE US OF 4E.TL&KDS
IED  ULNDER   RICLE 3 OF TR  RAMSAR C0NVE2n110o
Definition Of vise Usc
"The vise use of wetlands is thfeir g-ustaiuable utili2ation for
the benefit of hunzfkitd in a way compatible with the  ta;intetnaAc
of the nattral properties of the ecosystem".
Sustainable utilizatioa is defined as "hunan use of a wetl2ad so that it. may
yield the gcreatest continauus benefit to present generatitis while maintaining
Its potential to meet the needs and aspirations of future generatiosu".
Natturl properties of the ecosystem are cefinea as u *oso physical, biological
or chenical components1 such as soil, water, plants, anima-ls and nutrients,
and the interactions between them".
Guidelines
Wise use involves the promotion of wetland policies containing the following
elements:                         I
(a)   a nations1i inventory of wetlands;
(b)   identification of the benefits and values of these wetlands;
(c)   definition of the priorities for each site in accordance with the
needs of, and socio-economic conditions in, each coantry:
td)   proper assessment of emviron.-iental impact before development
projects are approved, continuing evaluation daring the execution of
projects, and full implementation of environments-l coaservation
measures which take full accoUnt of the recommendations of this
process of environmental assessment and *valuation;
N                 (t3  use of development funds for projects which permit conserVation and
sustainable utillzation of wetland resources;
(f)   regulated utilization of wild fauna and  flora, sueh tbat tbese
compone"ts of the wetland systems are not over-exploited;
iten detailed policies are being established, action should be taken ona
(a-)   interchange of experience asd information between countries seeking
to elaborate national wetland policies;
() . t-ri3gn  of appropriate staff in the discipli:es which will assist
in the elaboration of such policies;
(c)   pursuit o legislation and policies which will stimrlate wetland
conservation action, including the wm&'Dient as appropriate of
eristing legislation;
(d) review Of. traditional techaniques of sustainable wetland se, and
elaboration of pilot projects which demonstrate wise use of
representative national and regional wetland types.



- 59 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Indicative Equipment Lists Appearing in Cost Tables
Table 1
Office Furniture and Equipment (Set)
Item         Quantity    Unit Cost (IZ)   Total Cost
._ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ( )
Manual Typewriter      1         250,000        250,000
Filing Cabinets       2          100,000        200,000
Office Furniture
1. Desks              2          55,000        110,000
2. Chairs             6           8,000         50,000
3. Book Shelves       2          20,000         40,000
Grand Total    650,000
Table 2
Computer Equipment (Set)
Item         Quantity    Unit Cost ($)   Total Cost ($)
UPS                    1             1,000          1,000
Computer               1             5,000          5,000
Printer                1             1,500          1,500
Software                             1,500          1,500
Supplies                             1,000          1,000
Grand Total     10,000



- 60 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex
Page 2 of 4
Table 3
Training Eguipment (Set)
Item               Quantity     Unit Cost ($)   Total Cost Cs)
Film Projector Unit                1            6,000             6,000
and Public Address System
Slide Project                      1             1,700            1,700
Screen                             1              300              300
Generator                          1             1,500            1,500
Binoculars                        20              100             2,000
Telescopes                         5              350             1,750
Photocopier                        1             1,700            1,700
Camera                             1              850               850
Education Books                   100              20             2,000
Sundries                                                           300
Grand Total       18,100
Table 4
Training/Education Equipment (Muni)
Item          Quantity    Unit Cost ()    Total Cost (07)
Display Shelving        4             20,000          80,000
Display Cabinets        2           100,0000        200,000
Desk                     1            55,000         55,000
Chairs                  30             8,333        250,000
Grand Total     585,000



- 61 -                        APPENDIX 2
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Table 5
Field Equipment (Set)
Item          Quantity     Unit Cost ($)      Total Cost ($)
Cutlass                1               10                10
Boots                   1              40                40
Water bottle            1              10                10
Boiler/Utensils         1              40                40
Haversack              1              100                100
Telescope              1              350               350
Binoculars                            100                100
l~ ~7                                   Grand Total       650
Table 6
Muni: Boundary Demarcation
Item             Quantity    Unit Cost (e)   Total Cost (Q)
(km)
Boundary Description and    48.5          162,500        7,881,250
Survey                      40.0          100,000        4,000,000
Pillars                     48.5            6,700          324,950
Boundary Clearance          10.0          50,000           500,000
Sign Boards                 13.5          60,000           810,000
Fire Break                                          I
Grand Total    13,516,200



- 62 -                        APPENDIX 2
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Table 7
Habitat Enhancement/Management (Muni)
Item             Quantity     Unit Cost ()       Total Cost ()
Nature Trails                5 km           7,000/km              35,000
Border Planting             24 km         187,500/km           4,500,000
Traditional Hunting        200 ha          38,000/ha           7,600,000
Grounds
Grand Total          12,135,000
Table 8
Boundary Maintenance
Item           Quantity (km)       Unit Cost ()      Total Cost (e)
Boundary Clearance        48                    7,000            336,000
Fire Break                 15                  60,000            900,000
Grand Total      1,236,000
Table 9
Monitoring Equipment
Item             Quantity       Unit Cost ($)   Total Cost ($)
Salinity Meter             1                 200              200
Water Level Gauge          1                  10               50
Weather Station            1                 300              600
Sainple Bottles           300                   .50           150
Grand Total      1,000



- 63 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Department of Game and Wildlife
Principal, G.W.       A. 67,69               649,543-719,650
Senior, G.W.          A. 61, 63              579,848-649,500
Game Warden           A. 53, 58              492,384-591,434
Ass't. Game           A. 40, 43              379,481435,120
Warden                A. 47, 53              435.481435,120
Sr. Game Prod.        A. 38, 40              364,038410,364
Officer               A. 34, 36              334.038410,364
Game Prod.            A. 27, 32              287,631-348-595
Officer               A. 21, 25, 30          320,891-364.038
Sr. Game Ranger       A. 12                  252,468-334,038
Gaame Ranger          A. 5                   206,715-226,288
Principal Tech.       A. 5                   169,354-190,531
Assistant             A. 5                   164,354-190,531
Sr. Tech. Assistant
Tech. Assistant
Camp Supervisor
Skilled Laborer
Plus 20 percent as risk allowance.
Salaries as of May 1991



- 64 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 1 of 15
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Environmental Baseline and Monitoring Studies for Coastal Wetlands
1.    Introduction. Long term management of the coastal wetland ecosystems addressed by
this project will require development of an information base on the physical parameters of the
system (hydrology, sedimentology, limnology) and the status of its biotic components
(fisheries, aquatic and terrestrial ecology of flora and fauna), as well as the socio-economic
status of its human inhabitants. The multiple-use management goals for the project sites call
for preserving the ecological viability of the sites as bird habitat, maintaining or enhancing the
recreational value of the areas, and seeking options to improve the economic return from
compatible industries such as fisheries, aquaculture and salt production. Consistent with
World Bank policy, these goals also include the maintenance or improvement of the welfare
of the local population. To achieve these ends it is necessary to identify the current status of
the ecosystems, identify major factors affecting their status, develop an understanding of
natural cycles of hydrodynamics and biological productivity, identify long term trends in
succession or change induced or influenced by human interventions (e.g., dams, agricultural
runoff and urban pollution), and to develop models for understanding the ecological
interactions among the biotic and physical elements of the systems. These terms of reference
outline the studies that are needed to establish a technical information base upon which
realistic management goals for the wetland systems can be set and against which success in
achieving them can be measured.
2.    Objectives. The overall objectives of these studies are to: identify the major factors
(natural and human induced) that are acting on these coastal ecosystems; develop data on the
present (ecological and economic) productivity of the systems; identify options to mitigate
negative impacts from present or potential future human/industrial activities; develop models
of the principal factors that affect the stability of the systems; and provide a basis for
determining interventions to improve the economic productivity of the wetland systems that
are consistent with maintaining their ecological integrity and environmental quality. Table 8.1
provides a simplified "generic" systems model for the coastal wetlands and summarizes
indicators and parameters for regular monitoring.
3.    Organization and Management. Funds for the studies would be administered by the
Department of Game and Wildlife through the Coastal Wetlands Management Unit to be
established under the project. Planning, design, supervision and review of the overall research
program would be done by the Coastal Wetlands Management Project Operations Committee
(CWMPOC) augmented with technical experts from participating institutions such as the
Fisheries Research Institute, the Institute of Aquatic Biology, the Water Resources Research
Institute, and the Botany and Zoology Departments, University of Ghana at Legon. The
Project Operations Committee (CWMPOC) would be the formal body for review and



- 65 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 2 of 15
consideration of study protocols and approval of terms of reference. Senior participants in the
technical studies would meet periodically, not less frequently than twice annually, to present
and review study results and identify necessary changes and adjustments to study protocols or
needs for specialized studies. The Senior Technical Advisor would be responsible for overall
planning, design, coordination, supervision and review of the research studies. A detailed
study plan would be prepared and reviewed by the CWMPOC and IDA by April 1993.
Table 8.1. COASTAL WETLANDS - ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
Generic Systems Model For Coastal Lagoon Ecosystems
Inputs                           Indicator(s)
Fresh water inflow                water level/salinity
Seawater inflow                   water level/salinity
Runoff sediments                 turbidity/transparency
Agricultural runoff               nitrates/sulphates/phosphates
Human/animal wastes               coliform bacteria count
Industrial wastes                 trace metals,hydrocarbons etc.
Qutiits                           Indicator(s)
Fish, crabs, shrimp               catch statistics, size/frequency data
Salt                             temperature & rainfall
evaporation potential
Water outflow                     water level/salinity
contaminant levels
Checklist of General Environmental Ouality Monitorine Parameters
Hydrological                      Umnologica
* water levels                    * pH
inflow/outflow rates            * transparency/turbidity
sediment transport              * dissolved oxygen
* conductivity (salinity)
* biological/chemical
oxygen demand (BOD)



- 66 -                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 3 of 15
Biological                        Miscellaneous
* algae                           * lagoon and seashore
phytoplankton                     water temperatures
macrophytess (plants)             evapotranspiration
zooplankton                       trace elements in
* invertebrates                     flora/fauna/sediments
* fish                              petroleum hydrocarbons
crustaceans & molluscs
* birds
* Routinely monitored parameters.
4.    Terms of Reference. Detailed terms of reference for the studies would be drawn up
by the Senior Technical Advisor in close consultation with the Wetlands Management Unit
Coordinator and reviewed and approved by the CWMPOC. Detailed terms of reference
would vary among individual study components but the objectives of all would concern
documentation of current status and natural cycles and trends, identification of intrinsic and
extrinsic factors effecting the systems and design, development and execution of long term
monitoring protocols. Specific studies would address:
-     hydrology
-     limnology and aquatic biology of plants and invertebrates
-     lagoon fisheries
-     shorebird and wader population monitoring
-     terrestrial animal and plant ecology
-     erosion and land degradation
-     socio-economic conditions and cultural practices of local
communities
5.    The results of baseline studies would be presented in the form of a report with maps,
diagrams and data tables as necessary. These studies would also define requirements for
annual monitoring and formats for annual reporting of results. Based on this initial
assessment the CWMPOC with appropriate consultation with senior scientists participating in
the studies, would define terms of reference for the annual monitoring studies to be carried
out for the duration of the project. The results of the annual colloquia would be summarized
in an appropriate document and transmitted to the Natural Resources Sectoral Network
through the CWMPOC Chairperson and the EPC/TS.
Baseline Hydrological Studies
6.    For each of the wetland catchments, basic data are required on water flow, ground
water tables and annual fluctuations in water levels within the lagoons themselves. The goal



- 67 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 4 of 15
of the baseline study is to describe and analyze the hydrology of the catchments surrounding
each lagoon and to design a regular monitoring program to routinely record data on water
levels, flow volumes and ground water tables at key locations within the sites.
7.    Baseline studies for Muni, Sakumo and Densu Delta will be completed during the first
15 months of the project and for Songor and Anlo-Keta by the end of Project Year 2. For
each site, a report will be prepared describing the results of findings in terms of a preliminary
hydrological model of the catchment. The report will define an annual monitoring program
and describe the methods to be employed, locations of sampling stations, and required
frequency of sampling/monitoring. The report will define a format for annual reporting of
monitoring results.
8.    Muni Lagoon. The drainage basin surrounding the Muni Lagoon is approximately
96.5 km2. The lagoon is fed by two rivers, the Muni and Pratu which show large seasonal
fluctuations in water flow volume. Salinity of the lagoon varies seasonally and spatially. The
baseline study will develop a model of water flow patterns within the catchment area and
define requirements for monitoring annual cycles of:
-     water flow volumes from the Muni and Pratu rivers
-     water level of the lagoon
-     salinity gradients within the lagoon
-     sediment transport within the river/lagoon system
-     ground water levels in appropriate areas of the catchment
9.    Sakumo Lagoon. This lagoon and its catchment fall almost entirely within the greater
Accra-Tema urban metropolitan region. The lagoon receives discharge from two rivers, the
Gbagbla-Ankonu and Mamahuma with a total catchment area of approximately 222 km2. The
lagoon is tidal and connected to the sea by a culvert passing under the Accra-Tema coast
highway and railroad embankment. Freshwater and tidal inflow volumes fluctuate seasonable
and the salinity gradient within the lagoon varies both daily and seasonally.
10.   The baseline study will develop a model of water flow patterns within the lower
catchment area and define requirements for monitoring annual cycles of:
-     discharge volumes into the lagoon from the Gbagbla-Ankonu and Mamahuma
rivers
-     water level of the lagoon
-     salinity gradients within the lagoon
-     sediment and effluent transport within the river/lagoon system
-     ground water levels in appropriate areas of the catchment
-     tidal flow volumes through the culvert
11.   In defining the monitoring regime the study will also take into account
recommendations for improving tidal flushing of the lagoon resulting from engineering studies
to be undertaken that concern potential modification of the outfall culvert and determine
whether such modifications should be undertaken.



- 68 -                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 5 of 15
12.   Densu Delta. The lagoon and salt pan complex of the lower Densu river lies in the
valley formed by the Aplaku-Takuse and Weija McCarthy Hills. Freshwater inflow is from
runoff within the immediately adjacent catchment and from the Densu River below the Weija
Dam.
13.   The baseline study will develop a model of water flow patterns within the adjacent
catchment area and define requirements for monitoring annual cycles of:
-     water level of the lagoon
-     salinity gradients within the lagoon
-     sediment and effluent transport within the river/lagoon system
-     ground water levels in appropriate areas of the catchment
-     flow volumes through the Densu River channel at appropriate stations below
the Weija Dam
14.   Songor Lagoon. Songor lagoon lies just west of the Volta River estuary. Freshwater
input is principally from runoff of the adjacent catchment and discharge from three streams,
two of which (Sege and Zano) originate north of the Sege-Kase road. The seasonally flooded
area covers approximately 115 km2. At present the lagoon has no outlet to the sea and salinity
varies over a broad range throughout the year.
15.   The baseline study will develop a model of water flow patterns within the adjacent
catchment area and define requirements for monitoring annual cycles of:
-     water level of the lagoon
-     salinity gradients within the lagoon
-      sediment and effluent transport within the river/lagoon system
-     ground water levels in appropriate areas of the catchment
16.   In defining the monitoring regime, the study will take into account potential effects on
the lagoon of modifications of seawater inflow patterns associated with potential expansion of
the salt winning industry.
Anlo-Keta Lagoon. The Anlo-Keta lagoon, river, marsh and mangrove complex covers an
area of more than 300 km2 between the Volta River and the Togo border. The hydrological
regime is closely linked to the Volta River and has been strongly effected by changes resulting
from construction of the Akosombo Dam. Baseline studies should be geared to establishing a
monitoring regime to detect long term patterns of change or succession that are occurring with
the objective of estimating their expected impact on present use of the lagoon by waterfowl
and local human populations.
17.   The baseline study will develop a model of water flow patterns within the adjacent
catchment area and define requirements for monitoring appropriate parameters to detect and
describe annual cycles of:
water levels within key areas of the wetland
salinity gradients within the Keta Lagoon



- 69 -                          APPENDDC 2
Annex 8
Page 6 of 15
sediment and effluent transport within the river/lagoon system including
coastal erosion/deposition patterns
ground water levels in appropriate areas of the catchment
Baseline Limnolo2ical and Aquatic Biological Studies
18.   For each of the lagoons and estuaries data are required on basic parameters and
indicators of water quality as listed in Table 8.1 (above). Baseline studies would include
assessment of water characteristics, aquatic productivity, an inventory of the aquatic
invertebrate fauna and establishment of reference collections, identification of invertebrate
prey species of migratory water birds, and definition of a regular monitoring regime for
tracking water quality and aquatic productivity. Studies would include an inventory and
assessment of aquatic vegetation including mapping of plant community types. Botanical
studies would particularly focus on elements of importance for habitat management and
harvesting by local human communities.
19.   The baseline studies would also identify needs for more detailed studies on life cycles
and population dynamics of invertebrate fauna and the interactions of biotic productivity with
abiotic factors such as fluctuations in salinity, turbidity and nutrient input from freshwater
runoff. The baseline studies would be designed to develop a preliminary systems model for
tracking biological productivity of the lagoons and identifying critical levels of key indicators
to be monitored.
20.   Baseline studies for Muni, Sakumo and Densu Delta will be completed during the first
15 months of the project and for Songor and Anlo-Keta by the end of Project Year 2. For
each site, a report will be prepared describing the results of findings with specific reference to
the preliminary hydro-biological models developed for each catchment. The report will define
an annual monitoring program and describe the methods to be employed, locations of
sampling stations, and required frequency of sampling/monitoring.
21.   The studies will attempt to identify and quantify specific sources of pollution and
nutrient input into the lagoons and provide assessment of impacts on biological productivity
and stability. The studies will result in specific recommendations for management of the
lagoon systems to enhance their resilience or stability and increase sustainable harvesting of
useful animal and plant products. The report will define a format for annual reporting of
monitoring results.
Baseline Lagoon Fisheries Studies
22.   For each of the lagoons, baseline data are required on the species, population
dynamics, growth patterns, productivity, and limiting factors of harvestable vertebrate and
invertebrate fishery resources. These studies are necessarily closely linked with the
limnological studies described above, particularly as these relate to sustainable productivity.
Fisheries studies must also be closely integrated with those concerning socioeconomic and



- 70 -                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 7 of 15
cultural practices of local communities as these relate to harvesting practices and utilization
patterns of fish, crab, snails, and shrimp. Studies should include data collection on fishing
methods and gera employed and catch data per-unit-effort.
23.   Fishery studies should seek to determine the status of present stocks and develop
models for potentially increasing harvestable productivity under various management
scenarios. Such scenarios would include evaluation of potential enhancement of present
fisheries output through habitat manipulation and/or regulation of harvesting patterns.
24.   The proximate goal of the fisheries baseline study is to determine present diversity
and abundance of harvestable fish stocks and define a monitoring regime for tracking
productivity over the next few years. This should provide a rigorous basis for identifying
potentially promising (and locally acceptable) management interventions and for assessing the
results of such interventions in quantitative terms.
25.   Baseline studies completed during the first two years of the project would be
summarized in a report defining an annual monitoring program for each of the wetlands and a
format for reporting results. To the extent possible baseline studies should attempt to evaluate
current productivity, sustainability of present harvest levels, and identify potential
management options to sustainably improve harvests.
Ornitholoeical Studies
26.   Data on use of the lagoons by migratory shorebirds and resident waterfowl have been
developed over the past six years by studies undertaken by the Save the Seashore Birds
Project in collaboration with the Department of Game and Wildlife. These regular monitoring
studies would be continued both within the Ramsar sites and elsewhere in Ghana to better
understand seasonal patterns of movement and habitat use by migratory birds.
27.   Within the Ramsar sites, detailed studies would be undertaken to identify and
document seasonal and spatial patterns of wetland use by individual species for roosting,
feeding and nesting. These studies would provide more precise data than are currently
available to define boundaries of necessary core areas or sanctuaries and the temporal patterns
for their use. For the larger sites (Songor and Anlo-Keta) aerial surveys would be undertaken
at appropriate intervals and periods to provide more accurate data on total abundance and
spatial distribution of birds within the wetlands than can be acquired from terrestrial surveys
alone.
28.   Banding studies to determine movements of birds among the Ramsar sites and other
wetlands in Ghana would be continued and expanded as appropriate.
29.   Baseline studies undertaken during the first two years of the project would be
summarized in the form of a report with appropriate maps to identify areas of significant bird
concentrations and temporal patterns of use of the wetlands by migrants and resident
waterfowl. These data will form the basis for delineating core areas and sanctuaries, and



- 71 -                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 8 of 15
development of management guidelines and policies to afford effective protection for migrant
and resident species during critical periods and stages of their life cycles (e.g., breeding,
nesting, moulting).
30.   The summary report of baseline studies will define an annual monitoring regime
required for tracking use of the wetlands by waterfowl and provide a format for annual
reporting of survey and monitoring results.
Terrestrial Plant and Animal Ecology Studies
31.   Basic survey and inventory data are required on the faunal and floral composition of
the catchment areas of the three rural lagoons (Muni, Songor, Anlo-Keta) so that rational
development and management plans can be devised. In the case of culturally significant
animals such as bushbuck at Muni and economically important bushmeat species such as
duikers and grasscutter, assessment of local abundance, population dynamics and carrying
capacity is needed to develop rational conservation plans or promote programs to encourage
sustainable harvesting.
32.   Similarly, botanical surveys are required to identify significant endemic or rare
elements occuring within the sites as well as to identify and document those plants that are
useful for habitat management or important to local communities for food, fuel, medicine or
other traditional uses. Habitat associations of upland birds (resident and migrant) small
mammals, reptiles and amphibia will be identified by field surveys with specimen
documentation as appropriate to assess the biological importance of these coastal savannahs
for rare elements of the vertebrate biota.
33.   Rapid field surveys will be undertaken for birds, mammals, reptiles and amphibians in
upland areas adjacent to the lagoons at Muni, Songor and Anlo-Keta. These will involve
capture and preparation of voucher specimens of mammals, reptiles and amphibians as
necessary for accurate taxonomic determination and documentation. Studies will be
coordinated with botanical surveys to link known vertebrate distributions with described
vegetation formations.
34.   Field botanical surveys will be undertaken to identify rare and endemic forms as well
as to determine the distribution and abundance of economically useful or culturally significant
plants. Natural vegetation cover mapping will be done for each of the three sites, as a basis
for determining management and development plans.
35.   Results of the faunal and floral surveys will be incorporated in the formulation of land
management plans to reduce erosion impacts on the lagoons and maintain or enhance
harvesting of useful plant and animal products through habitat management, planting, and
promulgation of appropriate local harvesting regulations.
36.   Baseline studies will be summarized in the form of a report with appropriate maps to
identify areas of particular biological significance within the Ramsar sites and outline



- 72 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 9 of 15
monitoring requirements for rare or threatened taxa occuring within the sites. The baseline
report will also indicate needs for more detailed studies on distribution, demographics or
population dynamics of endangered, economically or culturally important taxa.
Sea Turtle Assessment and Recovery Plan
37.   Preliminary studies undertaken during the 1970's indicated that beaches within the
Songor and Anlo-Keta sites are important nesting sites for three species of threatened or
endangered sea turtles. DGW authorities confirm that unregulated exploitation of turtles
continues to be a problem along the Ghana coast.
38.   Studies would be undertaken to identify turtle nesting beaches within the Ramsar sites
and elsewhere on the coast. Initial data on nesting sites would be compiled from interviews
with coastal residents. Nesting areas so identified would then be visited by DGW personnel
and monitored during the nesting season to identify their spatial extent and provide
information on the species and number of individuals using a site. Information on local
exploitation of turtles and eggs would also be gathered. On the basis of these studies, DGW
would identify requirements for protection of nesting beaches and for regulation of turtle
harvesting during critical periods.
39.   Based on the study results, DGW would formulate a protection/recovery plan and
enter into a dialog with local residents to negotiate implementation of appropriate controls on
harvesting of turtles and eggs. It is expected that implementation of such a plan involving
monitoring of nesting success on certain beaches and restriction of turtle harvesting during
critical periods would be implemented gradually with appropriate community
education/sensitization programs undertaken in advance of any enforcement intervention.
Soil Erosion and Land Degradation
40.   Surveys would be undertaken within the catchment areas of each of the lagoons to
map general land use patterns and identify any acute problems of erosion or agricultural or
industrial runoff contributing to siltation, pollution or nutrient loading of the lagoons. This
study would also identify sensitive areas where intensified agricultural or industrial uses would
likely impact directy on the lagoons. Based on these preliminary assessments a report with
appropriate maps would be prepared indicating areas where improved soil/land conservation
measures would be recommended and areas where intensification of current land use would
potentially present a direct threat to the aquatic ecosystem(s).



- 73 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 10 of 15
Socio-economic Status of the Local Population
41.   Preliminary work carried out by staff of the Sociology Department, University of
Ghana, indicates that approximately 50,000 people live in the area of Songor Lagoon; about
31,000 in the area of Muni Lagoon (if the population of the town of Winneba, about 27,000,
is included); some 180,000 in the area of Sakumo Lagoon (including the municipality of
Tema, Tema New Town, and Ashiaman, and inland urban center); and perhaps 75,000 in the
area of the Densu Delta (excluding the city of Accra). The Anlo-Keta lagoon area is also
densely populated, although no estimate has yet been made of the size of the project affected
population. If urban residents are excluded, however, the number of people directly affected
by project activities becomes much smaller.
42.   Socio-economic studies will, therefore, focus on the relatively small farming and
fishing communities scattered along the sand bar between the lagoons and the ocean, or living
in the lower catchment area of the lagoons. Initially, a census will be taken at each site of the
population actually living within the site boundaries, identified through aerial photos. This
census will provide basic data on demographic characteristics, residence and employment
patterns. Based on this sample frame, a panel of households will be drawn for annual project
monitoring activities. More extensive baseline data will be collected on this sample of
households, including assets (e.g., boats, trees), income, education, health, sanitation, water
supply, land ownership, land use, and uses of the lagoon ecosystem. To ensure adequate
representation of women's concerns, men and women in the selected sample households will
be separately interviewed.
43.   Household surveys will be complemented by informal group and community
interviews organized as part of the program of public participation in planning for each of
these sites. These discussions would identify traditional uses of different elements of the
lagoon ecosystem and traditional beliefs and practices which may affect its sustainability.
Reasons for the breakdown of traditional management systems will also be explored with the
communities concerned. These discussions will also provide a forum through which the
project can share technical information with the people, and gain the benefit of indigenous
knowledge concerning the functioning of the lagoon ecosystem.
44.   A report on the initial census, panel selection criteria, and survey instruments for each
site except Anlo-Keta will be prepared for review by the Site Committees and CWMPOC
within six months of project start-up. Baseline data collection will be completed by the end of
Project Year 1 and annual surveys will be conducted, therefore, to monitor changes in the
welfare of the project affected population. Socio-economic reconnaissance of the Anlo-Keta
area will be completed by the end of Project Year 2. Census and baseline surveys will be
carried out after the site boundaries are identified.



- 74 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 11 of 15
Technical Advisor - Coastal Wetlands Management Project
45.   Oualifications and Experience. The Technical Advisor will have an advanced degree
and post-graduate training in an appropriate technical field related to wildlife management or
conservation of biodiversity. The Advisor should have good knowledge of and personal
familiarity with ecological conditions within the coastal zone of Ghana including issues
concerning human ecology of the region within and around the wetland sites.
46.   The Advisor should have at least five years experience in the design, execution and
assessment of research programs concerning the utilization of coastal wetland habitats by
wildlife. Experience with monitoring and assessment of the status of migratory waterfowl and
shorebirds is especially important because of the profound importance of the coastal wetlands
for migratory bird populations on a regional and global scale.
47.   The Advisor should be familiar with the operational procedures, policies and practices
of the implementing agency for the project (Department of Game and Wildlife) and of the
mandates and technical capabilities of sectoral agencies and research institutions participating
in the project.
48.   The Advisor should have proven experience in development of education or public
awareness programs for local communities. The Advisor should have demonstrated
experience in working with local level political authorities, commissions, development
councils, traditional leaders and other elements of local communities to achieve appreciation
and awareness of and consensus on resource management or conservation issues.
49.   The Advisor should have experience in working with international organizations
involved with biodiversity conservation. The Advisor should have demonstrated his/her
capacity to maintain effective liason with the scientific community on matters relevant to
conservation on the national and international levels.
50.   Duties and Responsibilities. The Technical Advisor will be responsible to the
Coordinator of the Wetlands Management Unit of DGW and will be a member of the
Executive Committee of the Coastal Wetlands Management Project Operations Committee
(CWMPOC). The Technical Advisor will have principal responsibility for the planning,
design, execution and overall coordination, supervision and review of the research and
monitoring studies described above (Annex 8). In addition, working closely with the
Wetlands Management Unit Coordinator the Advisor will assist to:
establish the CWMPOC with appropriate representation of sectoral agencies,
research institutes, political institutions and traditional leaders;
establish and serve as chairperson of a technical working group with
appropriate representation from academia, research institutes, and other units
to plan, design and review results of research and monitoring studies to be
undertaken under the project;



- 75 -                        APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 12 of 15
plan and develop community awareness and public education programs
concerning environment and conservation issues within the coastal zone and
elsewhere;
act as liaison with national and international NGO's concerned with
environmental awareness and conservation of the coastal wetlands;
establish local Site Committees for the principal project sites and work to
ensure adequate representation of all segments of the communities living
within and adjacent to the Ramsar sites;
plan and coordinate development of a National Wetlands Conservation
Strategy in cooperation with the EPC/TS and other appropriate national
planning agencies;
plan and organize appropriate fora for the presentation of research findings
and other events to promote public awareness of wetland values;
develop an overall research program plan and schedule for carrying out the
research and monitoring studies described above;
monitor and review disbursement of funds for community infrastructure
improvements approved by the site committees;
develop annual work plans and research programs, prepare periodic reports;
liaise with IDA/GEF supervision missions and participate in mid-term project
review and preparation of mid term and project completion reports.
National Wetlands Conservation Strategv
51.   Introduction. Ghana's 550km coastline includes more than 50 lagoons and estuaries
ranging in size from a few dozen hectares to more than 300 km2. The Volta Lake, an
impoundment created by the Akosombo Dam covers an area of nearly 8,500 km2 which
extends through all of the major inland ecological zones of the country. Together, natural and
manmade wetlands cover nearly 10,000 km2 of territory and are of critical economic
importance to the country as a whole and to adjacent communities. Studies concentrated
principally along the coast document the regional and global importance of Ghanaian wetlands
as habitat for migratory waterfowl with eight presently known coastal sites qualifying as
Wetlands of International Importance under the 1 % criterion of the Ramsar Convention. In
recognition of the national and international significance of its wetland resources the
Government of Ghana became a party to the Ramsar Convention in 1988 and has formally
registered or expressed its intent to register with the Ramsar Secretariat six wetland sites
(including catchments) totalling more than 1500 km2 in area. In line with the commitment of
contracting parties to the Convention to develop national wetland policies promoting "wise



- 76 -                          APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 13 of 15
use" of these resources the Government of Ghana would utilize funds provided by the Global
Environment Facility under the Wetlands Management component of the GERMP to develop
the necessary information base to define a national wetland conservation strategy and action
plan.
52.   Objectives. The first objective of this study would be to review existing data on
wetland resources and systematically identify gaps in knowledge of critical factors effecting
wetlands as these represent constraints to improving management practices. The goal would
be to summarize existing information on coastal and inland wetlands including:
hydrodynamics; present uses and projected future demands; water quality and pollution
problems; fisheries productivity and potential; and status of natural flora and fauna (including
resident and migratory species). This study would bring together information gathered on
coastal wetlands under the Coastal Wetlands Management Program and on inland wetlands
under the Volta Basin Study undertaken as part of the GERMP to define conservation
priorities and options, evaluate the multiple use management potential of principal wetlands,
and identify present constraints to realizing the economic potential of wetlands resources.
This study would identify specific needs for data collection and analysis and recommend a
specific plan of actions to meet them.
53.   Organization and Management. Funds for the study would be administered by the
EPC/TS. The project would finance local consultancies to review and summarize existing
information, limited local field data collection, sponsorship of necessary meetings, workshops
and colloquia, preparation and dissemination of reports and documents, and technical
assistance from outside specialists as required. Draft terms of reference and an
implementation plan and schedule for the study would be prepared by the Senior Technical
Advisor to the Wetlands Management Unit of DGW and reviewed and approved by the
SIPOC. Specific elements enumerated below would be addressed by specialist working
groups under the general coordination of the Wetlands Technical Advisor. Results would be
prepared in the form of a technical report with accompanying maps as required. Development
of specific strategies and action plans would be the responsibility of the Wetlands Technical
Advisor in collaboration with the EPC/TS with review and approval by the Executive Council
of EPC.
54.   Terms of Reference. Detailed terms of reference would be prepared, reviewed and
approved as noted above. Specific activities to be undertaken in the course of the study
would include:
review of the current status of information on wetland resources including,
size, location, biological and hydrological characteristics, human uses,
classification of wetland types and assessment of conservation status and
representativeness of present conservation units;
review of legislation and legal basis for wetland management;
identification of education, training and public awareness requirements related
to wetlands management;



- 77 -                        APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 14 of 15
-     identification of specific research requirements to obtain necessary data to
objectively define conservation priorities;
-     identify major threats to wetiands in Ghana and constraints to effective
wetlands management;
-     identify sites suitable for development of multiple-use wetland management
projects that build on experience gained under the coastal wetlands
management program to improve wetlands management practices in other
ecological zones;
55.   The study would make recommendations for priority actions in the development of a
national wetlands policy and strategy. Such priority actions might include: undertaking a
national wetlands inventory; expansion of the coastal wetlands management unit to include
management of inland wetlands; management of additional critical sites within the coastal
zone; development of specific site based project proposals. The Ghana national strategy
would also take into account wetland conservation priorities on a regional scale by
maintaining communication and cooperative linkages with international organizations
concerned with wetlands conservation such as IWRB, ICBP and IUCN.
Study of Development Options in Coastal Wetlands
56.   Oectives. The main purpose of these studies would be to examine options for
development within the coastal wetland sites designated as of special ecological significance
under the Ramsar Convention. Such recognition does not preclude development but any
development should be compatible with maintaining the ecology of the area. The objective of
the studies would, therefore, to develop proposals for development that are consistent with the
status of the sites under the Ramsar Convention. The studies would be a precursor to the use
of the Investment Support Fund, designed to underwrite pilot development initiatives in the
coastal wetlands.
57.   Organization and Management. Funds for the studies would be administered by
EPC/TS as the principal project implementation agency. However, NDPC and MFEP would
be amongst the users of the results of the studies and should play an important role in
formulating the terms of reference for the studies. The Project Operations Committee
responsible for Studies and Investigations (SIPOC) would be the formal body for
consideration of study proposals and approval of terms of reference. As all these studies
would require inputs from socio-economists, it is proposed that the Institute for Statistics,
Social and Economic Research (ISSER), University of Ghana, should be involved and the
staff member who would sit on the Committee could, where appropriate, coordinate team
formation and the implementation of the proposed study.
58.   Terms of Reference. The preparation of the detailed terms of reference for the
studies would be coordinated by the secretary of SIPOC, who would be the Deputy Director



- 78 -                         APPENDIX 2
Annex 8
Page 15 of 15
for Inter-Sectoral Networking, EPC/TS, in close consultation with members of SIPOC, who
would approve them. Details would vary but the studies would include examination of:
Existing natural resources;
-     Population;
-     Socio-economic framework;
-     Technical development proposals;
-     Financial and economic analysis of development proposals;
-     Assessment of the impact of potential developments on the ecology of the
lagoon.
The results of the studies would be presented in a report with accompanying maps as
necessary.



- 79 -
APPENDIX 2
Annex 9
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT
Maps of Proposed Ramsar Sites*
Figure 1.     Map of Coastal Ghana showing locations of sites.*
*   Proposed boundaries and zoning patterns within sites are from Ntiamoa-Baidu. Y. and
C. Gordon. 1991. Coastal Wetlands Management Plans: Ghana. Environmental
Protection Council. Ghana. 14Opp.



- 80 -                                             APPENDDX 2
Annex 10
Page I of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WE,TLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Comtal Wed=a5 Progrm  Tmp etdwm Sahedule
Activity                      1992           1993          1994          1995        1996        I9"?
1    2        1    2        1    2        1    2      1    2      1    2
1. SITE ESTABLISHMENT
Boundary surveys and Legal
descriptions for all sites                        *----
Bound ry Dam_rcationVSftes:
Sakumo
Densu
Songor
Keta
Border Planting/Sites:
Muni                                                        -  
Sakumo                                           *      *
Denru                                    *.-.-...      
Songor                                                                *._*.***   ...**..               ...
Kota                                                                          .   ..  *----!
...................... ...................... ............ ...... ......... ...... ......... ............... ...... .......... ..........
11. ADMINISTRATION
Establish CW POC                                  *-- --          .
(including technical working
group for research and
monitoring studies)
Establish Site Management
Coomitte.s:
Sakumo/Denau                              *         ...                                                  >
Songor*----->
Keta                                                                        --      
S........ ......                                     .       ...__      __... ._ ............    ............. ........... ............ ..... ......  _.....
III.  RESEARCH AND MOITORINC
Baseline Studies:
Muni                                             ......
SakLm                                            ....
DOnsu                                            ......
Songor                                                   ......
Keta                                             **    **-
Monitoring Studles:
Muni                                             **.--  *-----.**.-  *---- ---    *-.--.-.  *.*.**.e->
Sakimo                                           **-*e  -  *--~e  -- ...  i.    ...*... s..-* -.--e ne **----
Dansu                         **--*-- *   ..o..*.s...o.... .. --- ...- *.-*- o..... * *---
Songor                                                   *-----   .----.-- *---- -- ******-
Keta                                                           *--          ---   .--.-*-*--
................................. ............ ............ ............ ........... .......... ..........
IV.  CONHIUUTY DEVELOPUENT
SUTDY AND INVESTMENTS
Development Optionrs Study                               ......
Investment support for pilot
projects (e.g. aquaculture,
fisheries, artisanal salt)
Community Infrastructure
Investment Support:
MLMti                                            5*5--- ..5.*- -- --  *-------- *--- .....s...o.. .............*----
Songor                               *      - *-                            - * -
Kota                                                                        ......
.................................  ............... ............  ..... .......... .... .......... .... ......... .... ................
V.  EOWIPNENT PURCHASES                           ...... ****    --------    *- -
............................ ...... ............ ............ ............ ........... .......... ..........
Vll.  VEHICLE PURCHASES*------*-.-.-*----.



- 81 -
APPENDIX 2
Arnnex 10
Page 2 of 2
Activity                    1992         1993         1994         1995       1996       1997
1            1   2        1   2        1   2      1   2      1   2
Vil. SITE PREPARATION AND BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
Sites:
Muni
Staff Housing                 *- .*               --
Education Canter/Office*
Observation Posts                            *---  *
Sanitation Units                * *
Sakuwa/Oensu
Staff Housing
Education Center/Offiee
Observation Posts                            *       *---
Songor
Staff Housing
Education/Off i co/Lab
Observation Posts
Sanitation Units                                    *-.*--- ---       *      * ***-**-
Staff Housing                                                            ..  *-
Observation Posts                                                     *----. *
Sanitation Units                                                 * - ------  *---  ----*
.... ..... . ........ ... ..... ......,.  ..........   ........ ....- ............  .. ....  ......
VIII. ROAD CONSTRUCTION/UPGRADING
Sites:
Muni
Songor
Kota
. ..  .. .. . .. .. . .. . ...  . .. ..   ..............................  . .. ..   . . .. ..... .   .. ... .. . .  .  . .............     .. . . ..   ....   .. .
IX.  HABITAT ENHANCENENT/FAUNAL MARAGEMETN/SITE IMPROVEMENT
Sites:
Muni
GOwe stocking                                *---- *-*-*----- *---*.**-   *.*-*..**-----
Planting                                     *-.-*- *----------   *.------  *------*.*.-----
Access trails                                .       *
Sakumo/Densu
Planting
Roosting islands
Access trails
Kota
Planting                                                                 .   **... - - -.-***.--
Roosting islands                                                         *-. *****----- *****O***
Access trails                                                            '. *
.......... ......................... . ..... ........ ............ ............. ....... .... ........... . .. ......
X.  PUBLIC AWARENESS AND COWWJITY EDUCATION
WiLdlife Clubs                   *.******.*.        *      nr .                                  **---
Community Educatfin                   .                     *-- -.--- *--  *.    -*............***t***--
Education Center Operations
Xun~l                                                             *-***** -*-  ******U *-*-** **
Scku o                                                           *-*-------- *O*i* **........ --   -    --
SrJnor
Keta                                                                         ***-*.**. .*--  ...-
.  .. . . .  .. . . . . . . ....   . . . . ...    . . . . ...   .. . . . ..   . . ......    ........ ..    . ... .. .. ..
Xi. STAFF TRAINING
Coordinator                                                        e- -
Education Officer
wardwns                                        *.***e,,.,    ....
Education Extension Staff                *                   ****-.-.  *m_   .-
Coemunity Rangers
00     d" f Po* mEty   .. pwied of bed4ef t w ew3e aeye          kdeftf  m      d- >l eeim  eMN
KC:db
b:trgoah
Merch 26, 1992



- 82 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX 3
Sakumo Laioon
Effluent Disposal and Hydrological Studies



- 83 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
Effluent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paze No.
I.  INTRODUCTION  ..........................................    1
II.  SAKUMO LAGOON               ....................1.................... 
A.  Background .........................................   1
B.  Present Condition of the Lagoon ............................   2
C.  Tidal Mixing ........................................    4
D.  Contributing Flows and Loads .............................   5
III. REVIEW OF TEMA SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROPOSALS ........                                  7
A.  Outline of Proposals  ...................................   7
B.  Treatment Works Performance Predictions ......................   7
C.  East Tema Sewage Disposal  ..............................  10
IV.  THE FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR THE SAKUMO LAGOON  ....                              .........  11
A.  Impact of the Treatment Works  ............................  11
B.  Effluent Discharge  ....................................   11
C.  Recommendations .....................................   12
D.  Cost Estimates .......................................   12
E.  Cost Benefits ........................................   13
ANNEXES
1.     Analytical Results
2.      Treatment Performance Predictions
3.      Cost Estimates
4.      Terms of Reference for a Study for a New Outlet for the Sakumo Lagoon
5.      Previous Related Work
FIGURE
1.     Plan of Sakumo Lagoon showing Survey Sample Points



- 84 -
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
Effluent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   In 1989 a report was published on behalf of Tema District Council and Tema
Development Corporation by Watertech Consulting Engineers, on the redevelopment of the
Tema sewerage system which had by that time, fallen into disuse. The report concluded that
the original sea disposal system was inadequate to serve the future needs of Tema and that a
sewage treatment works was required which would need to be sited adjacent the Sakumo
lagoon and should discharge effluent to sea.  The preferred site of the treatment works later
proved to be unavailable and it was therefore proposed to relocate the treatment works away
from the coast and discharge into the Sakumo lagoon.
1.2   This study was instigated to check the design of the treatment works; to determine the
environmental impact on the lagoon of the new proposals; to consider alternative effluent
disposal options, and to cost them.
II. SAKUMO LAGOON
A. Background
2.1    The lagoon lies to the west of Tema and is connected to the sea by twin 1800 mm
diameter culverts under the coast road. At the time of the appraisal, late October 1991, the
free water surface was approximately 60 ha with probably a similar area covered with aquatic
plants in very shallow water. The depth of water was estimated from observation of
fishermen wading in the lake and appeared everywhere to be less than 1200 mm deep
averaging approximately 500 mm. The body of open water is thus estimated to contain of the
order of 0.30 Mm3 with probably another 0.05 Mm3 of water in the beds of vegetation and
water channels.
2.2    The surrounding area is a sandy basin extending over 100 ha to the higher land above
possible flood level. The basin is covered in grassy scrub land, on the western side and
around the northern edge. To the east housing development has encroached to within a few
hundred meters of the lagoon and low lying floodable area. In the south eastern zone is an
area of open land as yet undeveloped, which has been identified as the preferred site of the
proposed sewage treatment plant.



- 85 -
2.3    The Sakumo lagoon is a site of conservation interest for migratory shorebirds
identified as being of importance under criteria outlined under the Ramsar convention, and
has been proposed for registration as a Ramsar site. The lagoon is fished extensively but the
fish yield is not of great commercial significance, though several dozen fishermen earn their
living from the lagoon. Elsewhere the basin is used for cattle grazing, production of
tomatoes, wood cutting and sand extraction though none of these uses is extensive. At the
northern edge there has been some fly tipping and dumping of septic tank sludges and cesspit
wastes.
2.4    The lagoon has a catchment area of approximately 350 km2 and there are four major
surface water channels flowing into the Sakumo basin, two from the north and two from the
west. At the time of the appraisal, the most westerly of the drains from the north was dry;
this serves a large undeveloped area to the south of the motorway. The second of the
northern drains was flowing with partially treated sewage from the Ashaiman settlement to the
north of the motorway; the sewage passes through a series of irrigated plots which effects
some improvement in quality and reduces the quantity discharged into the basins.
2.5    The two drains from the west are both heavily polluted with domestic sewage. The
drains are partially silted and the velocity of flow is quite low. The majority of suspended
solids are finally divided but agglomeration of algae are common. There appear to be no large
faecal solids by the time the surface channels discharge into the lagoon. There are several
sullage/surface water channels discharging from the new housing developments but none of
significance. Most if not all of the new houses appear to be provided with soakaways and
although sub surface seepage may reach the lagoon the polluting effects are likely to be
insignificant when compared to the effect of the surface discharges. Tema residential Area 12
and part of Area 11 each drain to a large septic tank but the effluent is used for irrigation and
insignificant flow reaches the lagoon.
B. Present Condition of the Lagoon
2.6    Survey of the Lagoon. It should be noted that the survey work was carried out over a
limited period and there may be seasonal fluctuations in the condition of the lagoon which
cannot be assessed. Many of the hypotheses made could not be verified due to inadequate
time and resources. A sampling program of the lagoon was undertaken 30 October 1991.
Samples were taken at three locations (Figure 1):
A - approximately 15 m offshore from the Golf Club swimming pool;
B - midway across the narrow point of the lagoon halfway from point A to the outlet;
C - at the outlet just upstrearn of the culvert.
Two samples from each location were taken for analysis and two further samples from each
location were tested for temperature pH and dissolved oxygen alone. Subsequent samples
were taken over the following three weeks.
2.7    All analytical work was carried out by the Institute of Aquatic Biology (TAB) of
CSIR. Because of the limitations of the laboratory in terms of equipment, working
environment and experience of this type of work, the absolute accuracy of the results cannot



- 86 -
be guaranteed. Every endeavor was made to ensure accuracy and where errors were
suspected, repeat analyses were performed. Allylthiourea was not available at the IAB and
nitrification suppression of the BOD test could not be undertaken. The results of the analyses
are presented in Annexure 1.
2.8   Temperature. The temperature of the lagoon water dropped from 31C in the middle
of the lagoon to 270C by early evening
2.9   pH. The pH of the lagoon water ranged from 9.4 in the morning to 8.6 by early
evening, except at the outlet from the lagoon. The pH of the lagoon water was not the same
at the two locations in the lagoon proper but the changes in pH were similar. As the sky
became overcast and the temperature dropped, the pH also dropped, indicating the influence
of algal actively. The sample at the outlet had a much lower pH at 1100 h than the other two
probably reflecting the localized influence of the tide. At the time, the tide was on the ebb,
but from marks on the outfall structure the water level had dropped by 200 to 300 mm. The
low pH at point B reflects the naturally lower pH of the sea water and also the buffering and
diluting effects of the sea water mixed in with the lagoon water. As the sea water intrusion
was flushed out, the pH rose to 9.0 prior to dropping late in the afternoon.
2.10   Dissolved Oxygen. The diurnal pattern of dissolved oxygen (DO), although not
verified at night, is typical of waters with high algal activity. The supersaturation levels
attained were unexpectedly high, particularly at points B and C where concentration of
15 mg/l were recorded. As with pH, the DO levels at point A were consistently lower than at
point C, indicating a lower level of algal activity at point A. The drop in DO during the
afternoon was very marked at point C. However, due to inaccessibility, sample C was taken
close to the shore line and wave action may have suspended benthos in the area causing a
higher oxygen demand than created by algal actively alone. It is unlikely that DO levels drop
to zero except at the margin of the lagoon where the mud was noticeably black and has a
typical but faint odor of hydrogen sulphide.
2.11   Nitrogen and Phosphorus. Apart from at the outlet, ammonia nitrogen was not
detected in the lagoon. Nitrate nitrogen was 0.14 mg/I as N at points A and C, while the
orthophosphate level was 0.05 mg/l as P at point A, 0.62 mg/l at Point C and averaged
0.26 mg/l at the outlet. Subsequent sampling confirmed the absence of ammonia nitrogen but
gave nitrate concentrations of 0.014 mg/I and phosphate levels of 0.03 mg/l in the lagoon.
On 18th November, 1991, the orthophosphate and total phosphorus levels at point B were
0.04 mg/l and 0.06 mg/l respectively.
2.12   There is no explanation for the large difference in phosphate levels between sample
points A and C on 31st October, 1991. It was expected that the levels would have been
almost identical in a well mixed lagoon, as were the nitrogen concentrations. The much
lower values recorded on 18th November could be as a result of the tidal dilution by the high
tides between those dates and/or utilization by algae during a significant growth spate in the
intervening period, with subsequent washout or settlement. However it was noted on 30th
October that Pumping Station No. 1 was not operating and sewage was being by passed to the
lagoon. The discharge would have entered the lagoon near point C and mixing in the lagoon
to the north may have been inhibited in the short term by wind action and the general flow
pattern in the lagoon; point A is in effect in a dead area.



- 87 -
2.13   The nitrogen to phosphorus ratio is much lower than the ratio found in sewage,
considered to be the major source of nutrients entering the lagoon, but this is not uncommon
in eutrophic waters as algae and plants absorb nitrogen in larger amounts than phosphate; the
low soluble nitrogen concentrations possibly reflect the level of assimilation by algae.
Phosphate levels of 0.03 mg/l are adequate to permit blooms of several algal species and
concentration of 0.6 mg/l would sustain blooms of most types of algae. The soluble nitrogen
levels are probably too low to sustain blooms of many algae but blue green algae do not
require soluble nitrogen as they are able to utilize atmospheric nitrogen. Nitrogen
concentration is not a reliable indicator of eutrophic potential.
2.14   Previously quoted figures for nutrients in the Sakumo lagoon are probably of little
relevance without a knowledge of the volume of the lagoon and tidal water exchange. The
concentration are likely to vary due to dilution at periods of high tide or high rainfall, and
during periods of high algal activity.
2.15   BOD. The figures for BOD for lagoon water are not particularly relevant because of
the influence of algae present in the samples. Filtered samples gave a soluble BOD of 5mg/l
on 6th November, 1991.
2.16   Solids. The total dissolved solids measured on 18th November, 1991, were 21,300
mg/I. The suspended solids content is high and erratic due to the algae and suspended fine
sand in the lagoon. Measured values ranged from 1200 mg/I to over 7000 mg/I.
2.17   Benthos. The upper Benthos layer was found to contain 1.36 mgP/gm, and its oxygen
uptake was measured at 460 mgDO/m2.d. This is equivalent to 1 mg/I oxygen uptake for the
lagoon water and is surprisingly low. While the lagoon water at the time of the study was
apparently innocuous, the bottom deposits appeared to contain significant quantities of organic
matter. This possibly is derived from decomposing algal sediments but much could result
from the flushing out of all the polluted surface water drains whenever there is rainfall. The
low oxygen uptake tends to suggest that deposition may be seasonal and decomposition was
well advanced when the samples was taken. Previous studies have indicated that there is little
heavy metal pollution either in the water or the benthos of the lagoon.
C. Tidal Mixing
2.18   The tidal influx to the lagoon is not controlled by the culverts connecting the lagoon
to the sea, but by a sand bar across the outlet end of the lagoon and the channel from the bar
to the culverts. The twin 1800 mm dia concrete culverts under the road are in fair structural
condition except at the discharge point where the invert of one culvert has been broken off
and the other pipe is leaking. There are signs of superficial damage to the structure and the
rock on which it was founded is being eroded away extensively. Hydraulically the structure
currently offers some impedance to flow into the lagoon and the water level on the lagoon
side may be assumed to be at most 0.08 m below tide level at spring high tides. During the
rainy season the culvert severely restricts discharge to sea.
2.19   The meandering outlet channel is irregular in cross section and its route is unlikely to
be stable. At an assessed length of some 180 m, the channel creates a hydraulic control on



- 88 -
the flow of water into the lagoon, but at low tide is unlikely to affect the discharge to sea as
this will be controlled by the sand bar at the head of the channel. The discharge through the
culvert was measured using floats on 6th November at low tide and was approximately
0.57 m3/s.
2.20   At high tide on 9th November the influx through the culvert was measured at 0.74
m3/s for a tide level of 1.58 m. A crude hydraulic assessment of the channel feeding to the
culvert indicated a head loss along the channel of approximately 0.075 m. A comparative
assessment of the tidal influence indicate that at a spring high tide of 1.91 m the maximum
influx to the lagoon could be approximately 1.05 m3/s. It is also assessed that there would be
negligible tidal influx at tide levels below 1.50 m during the highest spring tides and below
1.40 m at neap tides when the lagoon level could be expected to be lower.
2.21   Over the tidal cycle at spring tides inflow could be expected for 5-1/4 h per tidal
cycle giving an approximate influx of 23000 m3. This would raise the level in the lagoon by
approximately 25 mm and increase the surface area of the water by some 3 m along the
western side of the lagoon. Observation of the shoreline adjacent to the golf club confirm a
tidal variation in lagoon water levels of this order during spring tides. It would appear that
during spring tides the flux does not initially match the influx and there would be a gradual
increase in the volume of the lagoon. It is estimated that the monthly total inflow is
approximately 530,000 m3 giving a tidal turn over of approximately 20 days.
D. Contributing Flows and Loads
2.22   An accurate assessment of the flows and loads entering the Sakumo lagoon is
hampered by the fact that Pumping Station No. 1 is occasionally not operated. On 23rd
October, 1991, a problem with the power supply necessitated discharging raw sewage into the
lagoon and on 18th November, 1991, the station had been closed down completely (and
unnecessarily) while one pump was being repaired. It is not known how frequent such
occurrences are.
2.23   The three major flows into the lagoon were monitored over 6th and 7th November,
1991. Three samples were taken on 7th November from surface water drainage channels
(Western Drain from Area 5, point D and Mid Western Drain from Area 10, point E) and a
single sample from the drain from the Ashaiman settlement, point F. An assessment of the
flow was made at each point to enable an estimate of the contributing pollution loads to be
made. It should be noted that the flows were made using floats over a relatively uniform
section of the drains and an existing concrete on another. The absolute accuracy cannot be
guaranteed but the flows are considered to be reliable enough to enable mean balances of
loads to be assessed. The average flows past each point over the day of the sampling were
estimated to be: point D 29 I/s point E 65 I/s point F 86 I/s a total of 180 I/s. This would
indicate a retention period in the lagoon of some 22 d, ignoring tidal effects and evaporation.
2.24   Over the same period the quantity of orthophosphate entering the lagoon from these
sources was approximately 22.3 kg/d as P ammonia was 189 kg/d as N, and nitrate was
3 kg/d as N. On 18th November orthophosphate and total phosphate entering from the two
drains discharging from Tema (points D and E) were computed to be 6.3 and 41 kg



- 89 -
respectively. The orthophosphate levels were much lower than previously measured but the
algal content of the flows was noticeably higher. The best estimate of total phosphorus
entering the lagoon is 50 kg/d.
2.25   The current continuous areal loading of phosphorus into the lagoon is estimated to be
of the order of 15.5 g/m2.a. This is very high for a shallow lagoon and would normally be
associated with eutrophic conditions. The mean residence time in the lagoon, taking into
account tidal exchange, is approximately 10 to 11 days. Ignoring benthic phosphorus transfer
and periodic rainfall loadings, the steady state phosphorus concentration should be of the
order of 1.5 mg/l. However because of assimilation by algae the orthophosphate levels would
be lower than total phosphorus. The measured concentration of phosphorus is much lower
than the loading would suggest. Significant quantities must be assimilated by macrophytes in
the margin of the lagoon and by precipitation in the lagoon. Fish would also account for a
small reduction in phosphorus levels.
2.26   The measurement of BOD was hampered by the presence of algae in the samples from
the drains but a best estimate made on 18th November, 1991, was 660 kg/d from points D
and E. However an estimated load of 2300 kg/d was also entering from Pumping Station
No. 1.
2.27   An allowance of 10 percent of the measured loadings is considered adequate to
account for sullage water and minor flows into the lagoon. It should be noted that the
effluent from the two large septic tanks in Areas 10 and 11 is used for irrigation and little if,
any, reaches the lagoon. The measured loads do not account for settleable solids which are
deposited along all the surface water drains feeding into the lagoon nor do they account for
cess pool and septic tank sludges which are currently deposited along the banks of the drain
from Ashaiman. During heavy rainfall, considerable amounts of septic sludge could be
resuspended and washed into the lagoon.
2.28   Taking into account settlement of organic matter in the drains, reduction of soluble
BOD during transit in the drains and assuming a low per capita phosphorus discharge it
appears that the sewage from a contributing population of approximately 30,000 is entering
the drainage system discharging into the lagoon from Tema.
2.29  In addition to the flows entering the lagoon in dry weather on the rainy season it can
be expected that significant quantities of deposited organic matter would be resuspended and
carried into the lagoon along with the normal sediment load from the catchment. The latter
has been estimated at 6000 T/a.
2.30   The shoreline of the lagoon in the vicinity of the golf club is covered by skeletal
remains of marine molluscs indicating a diverse benthic fauna some time in the past. This is
in direct contrast to the present time as researchers report finding no molluscs over large parts
of the lagoon. Fresh shells of one species indicated that there are molluscs in the lagoon but
no great variety. There must also be food of some type for the waders. The lagoon benthos
does not appear to be totally devoid of life but the lack of diversity of life forms is an
indication of an ecologically stressed environment. The water supports a healthy fish
population but one species of tilapia appears to predominate. Previous work has also
indicated that at times the algal population has been restricted to one species only, again
indicating an undesirable situation. Thus, the lagoon is unable to support a healthy diverse



- 90 -
ecology which, it appears, used to be the case. It is assumed that the transition took place as
a consequence of closing the natural outlet to the sea and restricting the tidal movement.
III. REVIEW OF TEMA SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROPOSAIS
A. Outline of Proposals
3.1    The original design of the Tema sewerage system incorporated three pumping stations
ultimately discharging through a syphon to a long sea outfall some distance to the east of
Tema fishing harbor. A balancing tank was provided at the head of the outfall to store flows
in excess of the capacity of the outfall until they could be discharged. The Watertech design
proposals for rehabilitation of the sewerage system account for the much greater flows which
will pertain when the sewerage system is renovated. The design report states that the capacity
of the outfall is only adequate for gravity flows from East Tema up to 1990 and all flows
from West Tema shall be conveyed separately for treatment and disposal.
3.2    The design proposals envisage that Pumping Station No. 3 would be renovated to
pump increased flows to the outfall which itself would be repaired where broken and
rehabilitated together with the balancing tank. Pumping Stations Nos. 1 and 2 would likewise
be renovated but with new pumping mains laid to convey almost all sewage from West Tema
to a new treatment facility situated at the edge of the Sakumo lagoon, with effluent being
discharged into the lagoon. All flows which currently drain to the two communal septic tanks
in communities 11 and 12 would continue to do so in future. Additional proposals included
the concrete lining of several unlined surface water drains and general improvements to
surface drainage in Tema.
B. Treatment Works Performance Predictions
3.3    Removal of Organic Matter (BOD). The latest design is based upon the following
parameters for 2005 adopted by Watertech.



- 91 -
Population equivalent        163 500              - 1
Per capita BOD              0.050 kg/h.d          - I
BOD load                     8175 kg/d            - 2,3
Per capita flow              139 l/h.d            - 4
Infiltration                3880 m3/d             - 2
Dry flow weather            26616 m3d             - 3
Design temperature           25 C                - 2
First series ponds capacity    87516 m3 for 2 Nos.  - 3
First series ponds area     2.50 ha               - 3
Second stage ponds capacity   24080 m3 for 1 No.   - 3
Second stage ponds area      1.25 ha              - 3
Facultative/Maturation
ponds capacity             169 870 m3 for 4 Nos. - 3
Facultative/Maturation
ponds area                9.43 ha               - 3
Notes:  1.  Stated in letter of 16th May, 1991
2.  Stated in calculation appended to letter of 16th May, 1991
3.  Stated in design calculations disclosed 25th October, 1991
4.  Inferred
3.4    The above pond sizes were queried as they do not comply with the original design
statement with respect to water depth, nor does the phasing of development appeared logical
as the second stage pond is apparently the same size as the first stage pond but operated at
half depth. It was confirmed that the calculation sheet was in error and that the aerated
lagoon depth should have been 3 m, not 4.5 as implied. It was also confirmed that current
proposals include for one aerated lagoon initially with two similar sized lagoon operating as
facultative ponds at 2 m depth. The intention is that as the flow builds up and aerated lagoons
are demonstrated to be effective, the other two would be converted to aerated lagoons. The
anaerobic ponds were only considered to demonstrate that should the aeration plant fail, then
the aerated lagoon would function satisfactorily as anaerobic ponds, as a temporary measure.
3.5    Assessments of the performance of the works have been carried out for 2005 flows
and loads for the following options for first stage treatment:
(a)    three anaerobic ponds;
(b)    two anaerobic and one facultative pond for 10 percent of the flow;
(c)    three aerated lagoons; and
(d)    two aerated lagoons plus one facultative pond for 10 percent of the flow.
It should be noted that the depths of these ponds has been corrected to 3 m.
3.6    The assessments indicate that the aerated lagoons should produce a marginally better
effluent quality in terms of soluble BOD than would anaerobic ponds. They also show that
the use of one of the first stage ponds as a facultative pond is a sensible concept with the use



- 92 -
of aerated lagoons. The effluent quality would be marginally worse but the savings in
investment costs and operating costs would be significant. The effluent BOD predicted for
each of the four options is:
(a)    15 mg/l
(b)    15 mg/l
(c)    10 mg/l
(d)    15 mg/l
3.7    There is little to choose between either anaerobic ponds or aerated lagoons in terms of
performance as the actual quality of the effluent discharged will be influenced to a great
extent by the algal population in the final lagoon. The BOD strengths determined above
would be representative of the soluble BOD of the effluent. With algae present the total BOD
is likely to be of the order of 50 to 75 mg/I. These predictions are similar to those quoted by
Watertech (11.9 mg/i BOD, following anaerobic treatment and 10.1 mg/i following aeration)
although no statement was made of the BOD contributed by the algae.
3.8    Removal of Patho2enic Bacteria. Oxidation ponds are effective in removing
pathogenic bacteria, viruses and ova of parasitic worms. Inactivation is by a combination of
settlement and the effects of UV light and elevated pH values. The pond system as designed
if operated in a series of 4 stages should remove over 99.99 percent of coliform bacteria and
a similar percentage of other pathogenic bacteria. With an average feed containing 1.5 x 10'
E coli/100 ml, the effluent could be expected to contain approximately 6300 E coli/100 ml.
The figure compares with an E. coli count measured at 1.0 x 106/100 ml within the Sakumo
lagoon, and predicted to lie within a range of 0.5 to 1.5 x 10/100 ml.
3.9    Nutrient Removal. With respect to nutrient removal the performance of the pond
system is more difficult to predict. Reports of up to 45 percent phosphorus removal have
been noted for pond system removing over 90 percent BOD. The principle mechanism of
removal appears to be precipitation and accumulation as mineralized phosphate. Precipitation
may be via algal body mass or as calcium phosphate at the elevated pH levels found in the
ponds during daylight. In the case of the Sakumo treatment plant a removal of 30 percent
might be a realistic figure to adopt for the purpose of assessing eutrophic effects on the
lagoon. This equates to a phosphorus load of 230 kg/d assuming a per capita contribution of
2 g/d. Nitrogen removal is predominantly by precipitation of organic nitrogen and
volatilization of ammonia in facultative and maturation ponds during periods of elevated pH
levels. Removal predictions are not easy but up to 80 percent removal has been recorded in
well operated plants and at least 50 percent removal could be expected.
3.10   Whatever type of treatment ponds are adopted there will be a need to remove sludge
from them regularly but infrequently. With aerated lagoons, the sludge produced would tend
to settle out in the first of the facultative ponds which would need to be desludged every few
years. If anaerobic ponds were to be used, it is likely that each anaerobic pond would need
desludging every 4-1/2 years. It is unlikely that the facultative or maturation ponds would
need desludging but if they did, it would probably be at over ten year intervals.



- 93 -
C. East Tema Sewage Disposal
3.11   Tlhe Detailed Design Report quotes the capacity of the outfall as being 305 I/s using a
Manning n of 0.015. This capacity is actually below the average flow predicted for pumping
station No. 3 in 1990 (336 Us) but the report states that there is capacity in the balancing tank
to permit, discharge over the day as with a head over the bell mouth and at low tide the
discharge can exceed 305 I/s by a significant amount. The hydraulics have been checked and
are essentially correct for the assumption made. However, it will be difficult to achieve a
roughness coefficient of 4.5 mm which is equivalent to a Manning n of 0.015. A fully
mature and otherwise clean concrete main operating at a velocity of 0.8 m/s could be
expected to have a ks value of 3.0 mm. It is to be expected that an outfall with no non-return
value at the outlet will always suffer to some extent from sand and mollusc intrusion along the
saline wedge which is likely to form at the pipe outlet. The outfall should have a capacity of
345 I/s after renovation with the balancing tank operating at a TWL of 7.54 m.
3.12   Although there is no mention in the report of recommendation for post 1990 flows,
calculations are presented which indicate that a new 900 dia outfall is required to duplicate the
renovated outfall to meet 2005 flows. However, this may not be strictly necessary. The
capacity of the existing outfall may be increased by pumping through it. The original
concrete coated steel pipe should be able to sustain a reasonable pressure head, though details
of the pipe section are not available. If the pipe could be thoroughly cleaned, a working
pressure of less than 1.5 bar would permit discharge to sea of up to 950 r/s. Arrangements
could be made to permit gravity discharge when the pumps are not in operation.
3.13   If the outfall after renovation could not be operated to pass 950 I/s if would be
possible to use a flow balancing tank to reduce the peak flow to approximately 800 I/s (1.23 x
average predicted flow) but if the renovated outfall could not pass this flow then it is unlikely
to be cost effective to provide a duplicate pipe for the short fall only. The material cost of an
outfall is a small part of the total cost and it would be worthwhile considering installing a
larger pipe fitted with non-return diffuser outlets to cater for flows beyond 2005. The use of
a larger outfall to cater for all Tema sewage has already been discounted on cost grounds in
the Detailed Design Report.
3.14   The problem with the disposal of the sewage from East Tema is inextricably linked to
the condition of the outfall and the potential for effective renovation. Should it not be
possible to repair the outfall beyond the break point, then consideration could be given to
installing a treatment works and discharging the treated effluent down the outfall to discharge
at the break point, which should be suitably modified.



- 94 -
IV. THE FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR THE SAKUMO LAGOON
A. Impact of the Treatment Works
4.1    The projected nutrient load in the effluent from the proposed treatment works (230 kg
P/d) is significantly greater than that currently entering the lagoon outside the rainy season
(50 kg P/d). It is certain that the discharge of the effluent into the lagoon could sustain a
much greater algal population than currently possible, and probably would. It is also highly
probable that there would be an increase in deposition of organic matter in the lagoon with a
consequent depression of the dissolved oxygen levels at the bottom of the lagoon. The
retention time in the lagoon would be reduced because of the greater inflow of effluent but
this would be inadequate to mitigate the situation to a significant extent. Under present
circumstances, the discharge of effluent into the lagoon would be detrimental to the ecology of
the lagoon, and the risk of periodic oxygen depletion and resulting fish kills would have to be
considered to be high.
4.2    The treatment works proposed would be screened by trees and because of the flat
terrain, would not impose visually on the environment. Odor production should not be a
problem with a well operating treatment works of the type envisaged. With anaerobic ponds
there is a potential problem of odor if the surface scum layer which normally builds up quite
readily, is removed or destroyed. This could happen with long lagoons with their axis along
the direction of the prevailing wind. With careful siting of anaerobic ponds, as remote from
residential properties as possible, the potential problems may be minimized. Straw may be
used to provide a scum layer if the natural one is lost. Sludge dredging and drying should not
give rise to odor problems provided that the sludge is fully stable when removed. On an
anticipated cycle of 4 years this would be the case. During sludge disposal operations there
would be a significant volume of traffic to and from site. This could create a nuisance when
passing through residential areas. Restrictions on working hours should be considered with
no heavy vehicles operating before 0800 h nor later than 1800 h.
B. EMuent Discharge
4.3    There are three options for the discharge of effluent from the treatment works;
-     balance the flow and discharge on the ebb tide into the lagoon outlet;
-     discharge the effluent onto the foreshore; and
-     discharge the effluent beyond the surf zone.
4.4    The predicted effluent quality of approximately 6300 coliform bacteria per 100 ml
compares with coliform count of 1 x 106 per 100 ml found in a single sample at the lagoon
outlet. This would be of the order of magnitude expected from a single pond of 10 days
retention allowing for tidal dilution, i.e., 98.9 percent removal from an input of 1 x 109
coliform /100 ml. The bacteriological effluent quality from the treatment plant is expected to
be better than that of the lagoon water in which fishermen currently wade. The discharge of



- 95 -
effluent to the foreshore should pose less of a health risk to the fishermen than they currently
experience, providing that sewage is not permitted to bypass the treatment works.
4.5    The discharge of fresh water into the sea will usually form a visible slick if not
adequately diluted. However, in the wave surf zone this will not be noticeable. There is no
need to discharge the treated effluent beyond the surf zone and a channel or pipe to beyond
the low water line will be satisfactory.
C. Recommendations
4.6    Effluent Discharge. The effluent from the proposed Tema sewage treatment works
should be discharged to sea into the surf zone as close inshore as can be practically
accomplished. The outfall design should be reviewed with a view to raising the invert level
of the outfall to minimize its length, and the route should be revised to increase cover over
the pipe and avoid laying through the lagoon.
4.13   Study of Hydrology. Increasing the tidal influence on the lagoon might benefit the
ecology of the lagoon as it would increase the inter-tidal zone, flush out nutrients and
pollutants more rapidly and provide easier access for breeding sea fish. Hydraulic dredging
could be one option for increasing tidal influence, but it is recommended that a study be
undertaken to examine the effects of dredging to lower the bed of the lagoon and increase the
size of the tidal channel.
4.14   Tema Resewerage Scheme. Consideration should be given to constructing at least one
anaerobic pond of 4.5 m depth. It is known that the tender documents are almost finalized
for 3 m deep ponds, one of which is to be fitted with aerators. It is considered that anaerobic
ponds would be much more cost effective and if operated correctly should not cause an odor
nuisance.
4.15   The need for sludge removal should be reviewed as it appears that no such facilities
have been provided. The existing outfall should be re-examined to determine the feasibility of
renovation and to confirm that corrosion of the outfall pipe is not severe. Provided that the
outfall is sound and may be renovated consideration should be given to augmenting its
capacity by pumping to sea.
D. Cost Estimates
4.16   The costs of works to discharge treated effluent in the surf zone are summarized
below. They are additional to those already included in the cost of the sewage treatment
works.



- 96 -
4.17   Land Pipeline. 900 m long, 900 mm diameter reinforced concrete pipe across former
salt works, across railway and road to foreshore.
Cost $'000    Foreign Exchange
Pipe supply                   70               15%
Trenching and laying           7               55%
Chambers                       5               15%
Re-installment                 5               10%
4.18   Marine Outfall. 100 m long, 900 mm diameter GRP pipe surrounded in mass
concrete, laid in trench in rock
Cost $'00     Foreign Exchange
Pipe supply                   30               95%
Trenching and laying          56               5%
Temporary works              140               15%
Design and Supervision        17               0%
Total                  363
Recurrent costs are not included as they are assumed to be included in the operating
cost for the treatment works.
4.19   Hydrological Study. The study and outline design of any modifications to the outlet
would be undertaken by an internationally recruited engineer with support from a local
consultant who would continue with the detailed design and contract documentation.
Cost $'000           Foreign Exchange
Engineer (2 months)           30                      100%
Local consultant (6 man months)  15                    0%
Total           45
E. Cost Benefits
4.20   Relocating the effluent discharge point to the foreshore will benefit the local fishing
activities as the quality of the lagoon water will not deteriorate and could improve. It is
estimated that for eight months of the year, for five days per week approximately 40
fishermen regularly fish in the lagoon. Based on a catch value of c 1400 per day per
fisherman, net of outlay for equipment, the value of the fishing equals to C9.7 M/a. It is
unlikely that all fish would be completely killed off by discharging effluent to the lagoon but



- 97 -
fishing could become uneconomic because of reduced and erratic yields. Assuming that 75
percent of the fishing industry would be lost, the discounted loss over 20 years at 10 percent
discount rate would equate to c61.9 M, i.e., $165000.
4.21   The cost of the outfall is likely to be less than $360,000 as it should be possible to
reduce the length of the sea outfall by careful redesign of the treatment works hydraulics. It
is apparent that only a small value need be given to the benefit of maintaining, or improving,
the ecology of the lagoon and retaining the lagoon as a habitat for birds for the relocation of
the effluent discharge pipeline from the treatment works to have a positive benefit cost ratio.
4.22   As an alternative to relocating the point of discharge away from the lagoon, the
phosphorus could be removed from the sewage effluent either by using a more sophisticated
form of treatment of by treating the effluent with chemicals. Both of these options would
increase the capital cost of the treatment plant more than the relocation of the outfall. The
operating costs would be high, probably over $175,000 per year for chemicals and power for
chemical treatment and sludge disposal. Relocating the effluent discharge point is the most
cost effective way of preventing the effluent of the proposed sewage treatment works causing
further serious degradation of the Sakumo lagoon.



, 98 _
FROM
E
FROM
F
601f dlo'O a                           f 2
& SwSiown                              s            smip\s
cexplax                                         12500
| Sakumo \ > ~~~Effluent pipe//
.                   ,    ~~~~~~~~Lagoon               ( l  relccatedl )  
Outlet culverts     
Fig -1 I             Plan of Sakumo Lagoon
:   Showing survey sample Eoints
R  -7. :   . t    ; : :::  .1: 12500            ::



- 99 -                                       APPENDIX 3
Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Laeoon
EMuent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
Analytical Results
TABLE 1. SAMPLES TAKEN ON OCTOBER 30,1991, FROM SAKUMO LAGOON
SampleLacaion                Dime           pH           DO        PN                      NO-N
A                   10.15           9.2         10.6        0.06        0.00         0.14
A                   12.50           9.2         13.0           -           -            -
A                   15.40           8.8          5.1        0.05        0.00         0.14
B                   11.15           8.2          9.0        0.27        0.06         0.08
B                   14.00          8.85         15.2           -           -            -
B                   15.55           9.0         10.9        0.25        0.06         0.11
B                   19.00           8.9          6.4           -           -            -
C                   10.40          9.4          13.6        0.62        0.00         0.14
C                   13.10          9.4         14.7            -           -            -
C                   15.30           9.2         9.1         0.62        0.00         0.14
C                   18.20           8.6          1.6           -           -            -
Notes:
1       High tide was 1.48 m GPHA datum at 0901. At 1015, the tide was on the ebb and flow was passing out of the lagoon
but it is estimated that some tidal inflow had taken place.
2       BOD results were invalid due to excessive oxygen uptake. All BOD values of unfiltered samples exceeded 9 mg/l.
3       Samples were analyzed for suspended solids and total dissolved solids but the results were rejected.



- 100 -                                       APPENDIX 3
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
EMuent Disposal and Hydroloeical Studies
Analytical Results
TABLE 2.  SAMPLES TAKEN FROM DRAINS FEEDING INTO SAKUMO LAGOON AND
THE SEA, NOVEMBER 67, 1991
Sample Location   Time     Date     PO,    NHrN    NOrN            Filtered BOD     Estimated Flow
(mg/i)   (mg/I)   (mg/l)             (mg/i)
D       16.30      6.11      0.79     2.66      2.16
D       09.15      7.11      2.64      2.16     0.06                                   31
D       12.00      6.11      1.46     2.56      0.30                                   27
D       15.35      7.11      0.86      3.26     0.00                                   29
E       15.46      7.11      1.98      1.96     0.03                                    -
E       10.00      6.11      2.86     2.36      0.08                                   73
E       12.30      7.11      2.60     2.66      0.06                                   66
E       16.00      7.11      1.21      2.16     0.03                                   55
F       17.10      7.11      0.60      2.76     0.25                  4                86
P       16.30      7.11      0.78     2.67      0.03                                    -
A       15.00      6.11      0.03     0.00     0.014                 4
C       15.30      6.11      0.03     0.00     0.014                 6
SEA     16.00      6.11      0.00     0.00     0.002
Notes:          Bod results on the samples from the drains (location D, E and F) ranged from 220 to over 700 mg/l and
were rejected.
Observations:    Samples from D and E were in appearance very much more turbid than samples from P which were clear.
The flows past points D and E contained finely divided solids and agglomerations of algae but no noticeable
faecal matter. The beds of both drains were heavily silted. Where dry, the silt/sand was sandy colored but
it was black under the dry crust.
A sample of bottom mud from the edge of the lagoon adjacent point C contained 1.36 mg P/g and had an
approximate oxygen uptake of 480 mg/m2.d as measured in a 750 ml capacity bottle. The mediment was
initially disturbed but left sumberged overnight before testing.



-  101  -                                       APPENDIX 3
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Laeoon
Emuent Disposal and Hvdrological Studies
Analytical Results
TABLE 3.  SAMPLES TAKEN FROM THE DRAINS FEEDING INTO SAKUMO LAGOON,
AND THE LAGOON, NOVEMBER 18, 1991.
SamDle Location         Time Taken          P04-P      TOTAL-P            TDS         BOD        FLOW
(mg/,)        (mg/I)       (mg/,)       (mg/i)         (I/s)
B                      10.50           0.04          0.06        21300             -           -
Da                     11.30           0.67          3.70           160         125           13
Db                     11.40           1.14          1.20           920          30           19
Dd                     11.50           1.40             -           580         210          130
E                      13.30           0.83          5.50           500          75           73
Note:            Pumping Station No. 1 was inoperative and sewage was flowing into the drain from where previous samples
had been taken. Samples were taken upstream of the confluence of the two drains D, and Db and also from
PS No. 1 bypass manhole, D,.
Observations:    Sample B was very green - more so than on previous occasions. Sample D. was stronger than Db, which
was fairly clear with occasional gross solids and algal clumps. Sample D. was a pale straw odor and
contained no gross solids. It is presumed that these had been removed by settlement in the surcharged
sewerage system. The sample was not typical of raw sewage but probably was typical of settled sewage.
Thc total flow past sample point D was assessed very crudely and the flows past sample points D. and Db
subtracted to obtain the flow of sewage from D,.



-  102 -                                       APPENDIX 3
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
EMuent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
Treatment Performance Predictions
A. Operation of Anaerobic Ponds
(i) for 100% Flow       (ii) for 90% Flow
First Stage Anaerobic Ponds:
Average flow (105% dwf) (m3/d)                              28000                    25200
Retention (d)                                                 4.60                    3.47
Expected BOD reduction (%)                                      78                    74% +
Effluent BOD (kg/d)                                           1799                    1913
Effluent BOD (mg/i)                                             64                      76
First Stage Facultative Ponds:
Areal loading (kg BOD/ha d)                                      -                     440 *
Expected BOD reduction (kg BOD/ha d)                                                   330
Residual BOD (kg/d)                                              -                     110
Second State Ponds:
Total BOD to facultative ponds/maturation ponds (kg BOD/d)    1799                    2323
Area of ponds (ha)                                            9.43                    9.43
Areal loading (kg BOD/ha d)                                    191                     215
Anticipated removal (kg BOD/ha d)                             149                      190
Residual BOD (kg/d)                                           396                      538
Residual BOD (mg/i)                                             14                      19
+   Based upon work by I.P. Arthur (1982) IBRF Technical Notes
*    At 25C the normal design loading limit would be given by
Lm = 20T - 60, i.e., 440 kg/ha d. The ponds are adequately sized for this duty.
B. Operation of Aerated Lagoons.
First Stage Aerated Lagoons:
BOD load (kg ROD/d)                                           1875                    7358
Retention (d)                                                 4.60                    3.47
Residual (%)                                                    17                      22
Residual BOD (kg/d)                                           1390                    1619
First State Facultativ ponds:
Facultative ponds as before residual BOD (kg/d)                  -                     110
BOD onto facultative ponds/maturation ponds (kg BOD/d)        1390                    1729
Loading (kg BOD/ha d)                                          147                     183
Anticipated removal (kg BOD/ha d)                              117                     143
Residual soluble BOD (kg/d)                                   203                      377
Residual soluble BOD (mg/l)                                     10                      13



- 103 -                                    APPENDDC 3
hnncx 2
Page 2 of 2
In four stage ponds the removal of faecal coliform bactcria is taken to be in accordance with the following:
No     =                   Ni
(KtRl+1) (KtR2+1) (KtR3+1) (KtR4+1)
where  Ni, Ne are concentrations of faccal coliform bacteria in the influent and effluent
Rl, R2 are the retention times in days in ponds 1 and 2.
Kt is the die-off coefficient for coliform bacteria
Reported valuea of Kt for E. coli range from:
Kt = 2.0 (1.072) T-2
to     Kt = 2.6 (1.9) T-2
A mid range value of Kt = 4.5 at 25 has been adopted.
The layout proposed by Watertech would be initially aerobic or anaerobic ponds; facultative pond 1, facultative pond 2;
facultative ponds 3 +4.
The areas of facultative ponds 1 to 4 as presented in calculations are 2.39 ha; 3.65 ha; and 1.41 ha each for ponds 3 and
4 with corrmsponding rctention times of 1.7 d; 2.6 d; and 2.0 d.
Assuming all three first stage ponds are operated in paraUel (not actually stated by Watertech but inferred from site
layout), the retention period in the these ponds would be 4.6 days.
The reduction in coliform bacteria would be approximately:
Ne     = 4.2x10'
Ni
i.e.:   almost 99.996 % removal.
For Ni =  1S x l1d/100 ml
Ne  = 6300/100 ml
Within the Sakumo lagoon the bacterial die off or removal is affrcted by the tidal dilution and by the retention period of
10 days. The removal of coliforrn bacteria should be approximately:
Ne     =       Ni
2(Kt R1 + 1)
For Kt  4.5 at 25 C, Ri = 9d, Ne = 0.012 Ni
For an E. coli concentration of 1.5 x W0/1000 ml in the surface watcr drains, and a lower concentration in the drain from
Achaiman, the concentration in the lagoon in the dry season could reasonably be expected to vary from 0.5 to 1.5 x 105
E coli/100 ml depending upon the tidal cycle. This is of the same order of magnitude as the E.coli concentration in lagoon
water found by Watertech in 1991, 1.0 x 10'/100 ml.



- 104 -                              APPENDIX 3
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
EMuent DisMosal and Hydrological Studies
Cost Estimates
A.    Effluent Discharge Pipeline
The additional pipeline required is 900 m of 900 mm dia RC pipe to shoreline plus a max of 100
m 900 dia outfall pipe to sea. It may be possible to reduce the outfall to sea by redesigning the
pond hydraulics. A 100 m long sea outfall has been costed as a worst case scenario.
Consider 1180 m pipe across open ground, 20 m across road and railway to outfall chamber.
Average depth from Watertech design was less than 2.0 m. Assume relaid in higer ground to
give greater cover and permit raising of invert if possible. Allow 3.0 m max excavation, 2.5 m
average, except at roads. Allow 3.5 at road and backfilling over 200 m pipeline to increase
cover.
Uniit Costs:
900 dia RC pipe delivered to site               C25,000/m
Trench excavation and backfill                      600/r3
Pipe laying assuming craneage by excavator       20,000/m
Road reinstalment; EO 20 m                       25,000/m
Additional embankment over pipeline for 200 m     7,000/m
Excavation Costs:
For 1.8m wide trench, vertical sides to 1.5m, battered above, with 0.3m overdig, excavations are:
Depth to invert -    2.0 m, excavation    = 4.6 m3/m
2.5 m,               = 6.5 m3n/m
3.6 m,               = 11.7 m3/m
Cost of Chambers - allow 0250,000 ea.
Preliminaries to be added at 15 %
Cost of pipeline on land                                        $1,000
Pipe supply                 900 m  a  C, 29,000/m say               70
Trenching                   900 m  @    7,800/m say                 20
Pipe laying                 900 m  0   23,000/m                     55
Road crossing               20 m  @    7,000/m                       1
Chambers                   7 Nos. @  250,000/no. say                 5
Reinstatement               200 m  a    7,000/m



- 105 -                              APPENDIX 3
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Sea outfall, 100 m of 900 mm dia pipe across rocky foreshore. Rock to be removed 1.2 max
to 0.2 m, average 0.6 m. Trench width 1.6 m min. Pipe material could be polyethylene, GRP,
mortar lined DI or steel. RC pipe not recommended due to possible chloride attack on pipe
structure. DI and steel fairly heavy and must be protected from corrosion. GRP and MDPE
ideal from long term degradation but must have a ballast coat.
The work would be probably carried out in a coffer dam possibly of rock with clay core or
tarpaulin sheet water cut off, and two pumps to drain the workings. Blasting of the trench will
be necessary and a nominal 200 mm concrete surround will be needed to the outfall pipe.
Unit Costs are based upon estimates prepared by Marine Construction Company Limited:
Temporary works:                                                        C'000
Armour rock bund, tarpaulin sheet sand bags etc.                42,500
Pumping                                                          1,150
Access road                                                      2,000
Excavate in rock                   100 m3 X  C 2,500/m3            250
Excavate in sand                   100 m3 @     1,000/r3           100
Provide GRP pipe + wastage         108 m  0    90,600/n3         9,785
Lay pipe                           100 m  0    12,000/r3         1,200
Concrete ballast                   90 m3 0   185,000/rn3       16,650
Add preliminaries at 159%                                       11.045
TOTAL                                                    84,680



- 106 -                           APPENDIX 3
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
EMuent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
Terms of Reference
for a Study for a New Outlet for the Sakumo Lagoon
Introduction
1.    The Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project includes proposals for the
management of five coastal wedands which are of ecological significance particularly
as habitats for migratory sea birds. The Sakumo Lagoon situated to the west of Tema
is one of these wetland sites and is of special strategical significance because of its
proximity to the urban populations of Tema and Accra.
2.    The Sakumo Lagoon was formerly connected to the sea by a wide natural mouth. In
1957, the lagoon outlet was effectively closed by the construction of the coast road
and rail line, and was replaced by two 1800 mm diameter culverts. Tidal interchange
is inhibited and the discharge of flood water during the rainy season is severely
restricted. Additionally, siltation of the lagoon is gradually reducing its capacity and
the lagoon bed is now above mean sea level.
Terms of Reference
3.    As part of the Environmental Resource Management Project, funds will be made
available to finance a study to determine the most suitable methods of improving the
lagoon outlet connection to the sea and of dredging the lagoon. The terms of
reference are for consultants to examine the available options, make recommendations
as to the most cost effective methods of achieving the desired improvements and
prepare an environmental impact assessment of the preferred scheme. Detailed
designs and contract documents will be required for the preferred scheme on approval
of the study report and EIA.
4.    The consultant will:
appraise existing reports on and studied of the hydrology of the lagoon and its
catchment;
survey the lagoon, the existing outfalls and immediate coastline and prepare
plans for design purposes;



- 107 -                          APPENDIX 3
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
assess the requirements for a new lagoon outlet both in terms of tiday mixing
and flood prevention;
determine the need for dredging works to maintain the present minimum
lagoon capacity for mean sea level condition;
determine the most appropriate construction and dredging techniques and
phasing of operations to minimize disruption to fishing operations in the
lagoon;
cost any options and determine the most cost beneficial scheme to achieve the
desired objectives;
carry out an environmental impact assessment of the preferred scheme;
prepare a study report including costs recommendations and an outline design
of the preferred scheme including relevant findings and calculations as
appendices; and
on receipt of a review appraisal of the report and the EIA, prepare a detailed
design and tender documentation for the two contracts.
5.    Oualification
The local consultant will employ a qualified engineer with a minimum of 15
years experience of the design and construction of hydraulic control structures
to carry out the report preparation and outline design.



- 108 -                          APPENDIX 3
Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sakumo Lagoon
EMuent Disposal and Hydrological Studies
Previous Related Work
A.    Tema Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project: Detailed Design Report.
Watertech Consulting Engineers - August 1989.
This study considered the options for rehabilitating the Tema sewerage system. Originally
all sewage was collected at three pumping stations. Pumping Stations 1 and 2 discharged
to the catchmnent of Pumping Station 3 which in turn pumped to twin sewers discharging
to a balancing tank and sea outfall.
Watertech assessed the capacity of the sea outfall and future sewage flows to the three
pumping stations and concluded that the outfall, if repaired to its original state, would
have only sufficient capacity to pass the flow from the natural catchment of Pumping
Station 3 and that the flows to Pumping Stations 1 and 2 should be considered separately.
They further concluded that sewage flows from Pumping Stations 1 and 2 should be
treated in ponds prior to being discharged.
The report located the treatment works between the coast road to the Tema harbor and the
road leading to Poduku, and considered that the effluent should be discharged to sea.
Several basic premise of the Watertech design cannot be verified, nor disproved, but if in
error, the implication could be significant:
(a)    The per capita sewage flow has been taken as 80% of gross per capita domestic
water usage and no allowance has been made for losses in supply.
(b)    The peaking factors determined are lower than commonly accepted elsewhere but
have been adjusted to suit local experience.
For 2005 the population and peaking factors adopted are:
Population          Peaking/Factor
PS No.1                     145,500                 1.47
PS No.2                      17,800                 2.97
PS No.3                     46,300*                 1.47
* Industrial flows are estimated to be 5.7 times the domestic flow.



- 109 -                           APPENDIX 3
Annox S
Page 2 of 5
(c)   It is assumed that the existing sea outfall may be renovated and that its operating
capacity is the gravity flow which it can pass.
(d)    The design report stated that with aerated lagoons there would be no sludge
production.
B.    Environmental Study of Accra Metropolitan Area - Flnal Report. Environmental
Management Associates Limited - December 1984.
The study report covers a large area which includes the Sakumo lagoon and Tema. There
is little reference either to the Sakumo lagoon itself or to the urbanization within its
catchment but mention is made of the water quality in the lagoon. It appears that limited
survey work was carried out and data described are from a survey carried out in 1976.
The lagoon water was stated as having the following pollution indicator characteristics:
BOD          12. 5 mg/l
NH3 - N       0.15 mg/I
N03 - N       0.16 mg/
P04 - p       0.08 mg/l
Metal concentrations in the lagoon were low and there was no indication of industrial
pollution in the lagoon.
The report highlighted the coastal lagoons, including the Sakumo lagoon as being the most
important natural areas to be protected from environmental decline.
C.    Urban II Project - Tema Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project Report on
Environmental Inpact Assessment. Watertech Consulting Engineers - August 1991.
This report was prepared over 18 months after the original design report and the design
philosophy has been restated as circumstances had changed since the submission of the
original report. In particular the treatment works has been relocated to an area of the
Sakumo basin between housing area 3 and the lagoon.
The report covers the design of the sewerage system and proposals for reinstatement
works. These proposals are essentially as proposed in the original Detailed Design
Report. The emphasis of the report is on the sewage treatment works, its performance
and the impact of the discharge on the Sakumo lagoon.
The sewage treatment works proposed is stated as comprising:
-   grit channels and measuring flumes;



- 110 -                         APPENDIX 3
Annex S
Page 3 of 5
3 Nos. aerated ponds (ultimately) each of 1.25 ha surface area and provided with
8 Nos. floating aerators;
4 Nos. facultative/maturation ponds with a total surface area of 8.08 ha; and
ancillary facilities.
Space was reserved for the future provision of maturation ponds and two of the facultative
ponds were identical to the aerated ponds and could presumably be provided with aerators
in the future.
The effect of the project on the environment was stated to be beneficial as the effluent
quality after treatment would be much less polluting than the raw sewage currently
entering the lagoon. However no mass balance was carried out to demonstrate this.
The effluent quality predicted for the treatment works in 2005 was 10.1 mg/l BOD after
maturation ponds following aerated ponds and 11.9 mgAl BOD after maturation ponds
following anaerobic ponds. In both cases the total coliform count was predicted to be
6800/ml. The comparison of aerated and anaerobic ponds was made to demonstrate
security of treatment in the event that the aerators in the former type of pond failed.
The report suggests two measure to reduce the impact of the treatment works on the
ecosystem of the lagoon:
(a)   construct additional maturation ponds to cater for one being decommissioned; and
(b)    discharge the effluent into the surf zone.
The report considers that anaerobic ponds could be malodorous and tree screens were
proposed as a means of reducing the impact of the treatment works on near by residential
areas.
Additionally the report recommends that once the treatment works is constructed, sewer
renovation works are commenced and the discharge of foul sewage to surface drains
ceased. Without such action the beneficial effect of the treatment could be severely
reduced.
D.    Correspondence between the World Bank and Watertech
The population date and water consumption figures quoted in the detailed Design Report
were queried by the World Bank in a letter of 18th April 1991.
The population data were presented by Watertech in a letter of 16th May 1991, in which
the total water usage in Tema was justified. It appears however that the water
consumption figures quoted are gross figures inclusive of water losses which if reduced
would not affect net consumption as implied.



- 111 -                          APPENDX 3
Annex S
Page 4 of 5
Other queries raised related to the loading on the facultative ponds, odor problems from
the ponds, the use of anaerobic ponds in place of aerated lagoons and the bacteriological
quality of the effluent.
Watertech consider that anaerobic ponds would give rise to odor problems and that there
is an inadequate buffering zone between the works site and housing developments. They
also considers that although aerated ponds are significantly more costly than stabilization
ponds, they are more appropriate for the Tema situation.
E.    Supplementary Design Report
In view of the changes which have occurred since the Detailed Design Report was
prepared, Watertech consider that a Supplementary Design Report is required. This
would be prepared on approval in principle of the original report. A summary sheet of
the latest design figures was presented to the author by Watertech 23 October 1991, and is
copied below.
The design has been carried out in order to be able to utilize the first stage ponds as either
aerated lagoons or anaerobic ponds. The depth is not stated but it has been increased to
4.5 m from 3 m previously used.
The depth of the facultative ponds is not stated but by inference is approximately 2.0 m
deep as previously allowed except that initially one of the future anaerobic ponds/aerated
lagoons would be used as a deep facultative pond.
F.    Accra Planning and Development Program - Coastal Management Plan for Accra -
Draft Report, July, 1991.
With regard to the Sakumo lagoon the Plan envisages a new outlet to the sea to increase
the capacity of the lagoon, to reduce flooding in the Sakumo basins and to improve sea
water exchange. It is also recommended that the Tema Sewage Treatment Works and
outfall should be relocated.
Development guidelines proposed include:
-   any sewage treatment should be to at least secondary treatment level prior to
discharge to any lagoon;
-   there should be no beach discharge unless an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) has been approved by EPC;
-   there should be no development within 150 m of the Densu delta and Sakumo
lagoon;



- 112 -                         APPENDD 3
Annex S
Page 5 of 5
-   Proposals for significant dredging of coastal lagoons should be supported by an
EIA.;
-   minimum beach slopes are presented for lagoon dredging works; and
-   discussions should be held with the lagoon Fetish Priest prior to any waste being
discharged to a lagoon.
Scientific papers presented quote the per capita income from fishing to vary form C1 183
to 1675/d and that from crabbing to be ,494/d.
The catchment area is stated as 350 sq km of which 20% is urbanized. Annual rainfall is
quoted at 770 mm/yr with an annual run off of 70 Mm3 and an annual sediment load of
6000 T. The sediment damage potential is said to be serious.
G.   Discussions with Dr. Yaa Ntiamoa-Baidu (University of Ghana, Legon) and
Charles A. Biney (AB).
Both Dr. Ntiamoa-Baidu and Mr. Biney confirm that there is very limited biota in the
bottom deposits of the Sakumo Lagoon and that the bottom deposits have, for some time,
been black with a typical sulphide odor. Both authorities also confirm that there are
occasional very severe algal blooms in the lagoon, but as yet there have been no large fish
kills as a result.
Dr. Ntiamoa-Baidu considers that the cesspool and septic tanker sludges unofficially
dumped adjacent the drain feeding into the lagoon from Ashaiman have been washed into
the lagoon during periods of heavy rainfall.



S~~~~~~~t\R~RPOE SOGR                                                                                         X
O  4 1 \ S I)TEMA l   of                       Guineo                             =                             _  , 
E  _  t- ,r-,,,,,-, v<- K19< .&S. 2  = = 0ot-                                                                               TOGOl
;<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                   nopE1   s TE
_ 4 Z ; / \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
1 3,00 9 3 30 r INTERNA1IONAE 30UND 59073 t \ g t ~~~~~~GHANslA) ii2|
\ COTE D'IVOiRE    . 9                                                                         \\ a )    Z ( l   \~~~~~~~~kND
l500  holiAssini         sdondi-%korodi   G u I f  o f  G u i n                                    ll       <J~~~COASTL WET
{ i@    =    ~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                                                                                FASO
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -









@      Printed on recycled paper



