Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2426 GH
                   Development Credit Agreement
            (Environmental Resource Management Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 21, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2426 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) a grant (the DANIDA Grant)
in an amount equivalent to not less than $4,300,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the DANIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and DANIDA;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Development Agency (ODA) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount
equivalent to not less than $900,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
ODA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ODA; and
Page  2
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as
trustee of the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) a grant (the GET
Grant) in an amount of SDR 5,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
GET Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Bank, acting as Trustee of the GET; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (b)   "CSIR" means the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research within the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Science and
Technology;
      (c)   "CWM Project Operations Committee" means the Coastal
Wetlands Management Project Operations Committee, established by the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;
      (d)   "EAP" means the Environmental Action Plan, approved June
13, 1991, by the PNDC Committee of Secretaries;
      (e)   "EPC/TS" means the Technical Secretariat of the
Environmental Protection Council within the Borrower's Ministry of
Local Government;
      (f)   "EQ Project Operations Committee" means the
Environmental Quality Project Operations Committee, established by
the Borrower for purposes of the Project;
      (g)   "Ghana Survey School" means the Ghana Survey School
within the Survey Department;
      (h)   "Land and Water Management Central Unit" means the Land
and Water Management Central Unit described in Part C.3 of the
Project and established in accordance with Section 6.01 (f) of this
Agreement;
      (i)   "Lands Commission" means the Lands Commission
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 36 of P.N.D.C.L. 42,
1982;
      (j)   "LI Project Operations Committee" means the Land
Information Project Operations Committee, established by the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;
      (k)   "LWM Project Operations Committee" means the Land and
Water Management Project Operations Committee, established by the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;
      (l)   "Meteorological Services Department" means the
Meteorological Services Department within the Borrower's Ministry of
Transport and Communications;
Page  3
      (m)   "MLNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Land and Natural
Resources;
      (n)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (o)   "PNDC" means the Borrower's Provisional National Defence
Council;
      (p)   "Project Coordination Committee" means the project
coordination committee established by the Borrower to coordinate the
activities under the Project;
      (q)   "Project Operations Committee(s)" means the CWM Project
Operations Committee, EQ Project Operations Committee, LI Project
Operations Committee, LWM Project Operations Committee, and SI
Project Operations Committee, collectively or individually, as the
case may be;
      (r)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 26, 1990 and
October 29, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (s)   "Ramsar Convention" means the Convention on Wetlands of
International Importance, especially as Waterfowl Habitat, Ramsar,
Iran, February 2, 1971, as amended by the Paris Protocol of March
12, 1982;
      (t)   "Ramsar Sites" means the sites demarcated by the
Borrower under the Ramsar Convention in carrying out Part D.1 of the
Project;
      (u)   "Regina Conference Recommendation" means Recommendation
3.3 set forth in the report issued at the Third Meeting of the
Conference of the Contracting Parties under the Ramsar Convention
held in Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, May 27 to June 5, 1987;
      (v)   "RSAU" means the Remote Sensing Applications Unit of the
Department of Geography and Resource Development, University of
Ghana;
      (w)   "SI Project Operations Committee" means the Studies and
Investigations Project Operations Committee, established by the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;
      (x)    "Soils Research Institute" means the Soils Research
Institute within CSIR;
      (y)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (z)   "Survey Department" means the Survey Department within
MLNR.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Page  4
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
commencing March 15, 2003 and ending September 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Page  5
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
EPC/TS, together with: (i) MOA, for Part C of the Project, and
(ii) MLNR, for Part D of the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank an environmental
project account, to be managed by EPC/TS under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, to be used exclusively for the
purposes of meeting expenditures under the Project which are not
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the DANIDA Grant, the
ODA Grant or the GET Grant; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, deposit into said account
promptly before each fiscal quarter starting after the Effective
Date, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project
required for such ensuing quarter under the Project's work program
(prepared pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement).
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, through EPC/TS, MOA and
MLNR, carry out, jointly with the Association, not earlier than 28
months and not later than 32 months after the Effective Date, a mid-
term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. This
review shall cover, among other things: (i) the development and
implementation of the management information system, (ii) the
effectiveness of the training programs, (iii) progress in carrying
out the public awareness program under Part A.3 of the Project, (iv)
Page  6
the status of the production of the maps, data bases and studies
described in Part B of the Project, and (v) the status of any policy
and legislative reform being carried out by the Borrower in the
context of the EAP.
      (b)   EPC/TS shall, at least four weeks prior to the mid-term
review described in paragraph (a) above, distribute to the
Association, MOA and MLNR a report describing the status of the
items listed in such paragraph and of Project implementation
generally.
      (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the
further implementation of the Project, and shall implement such
action program.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
Page  7
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the EAP, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
and
      (b)   (i)    subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
                         to the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor, or
                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof; and
            (ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of
that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
DANIDA Grant Agreement, the ODA Grant Agreement and the GET Grant
Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
     (b)   the Borrower shall have established the environmental
project account referred to in Section 3.02 and shall have deposited
therein an initial amount in Cedis equivalent to $100,000;
      (c)   the three Deputy Directors of EPC/TS and the financial
controller for the Project shall have been appointed under terms of
reference, and with qualifications and experience, acceptable to the
Association and shall be in place;
Page  8
      (d)   the Borrower shall have selected a supplier to provide
the equipment and services required to carry out Part B.2 of the
Project under procedures acceptable to the Association;
      (e)   the RSAU shall have adopted terms of reference and
operational procedures acceptable to the Association, and the head
of the RSAU shall have been appointed with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association and shall be in place; and
      (f)   the Land and Water Management Central Unit shall have
been established under terms of reference, and shall be staffed in
a manner, acceptable to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance and
              Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic
              Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
                   Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                         By /s/ Joseph Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              1,190,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Equipment, Vehicles      2,700,000         100% of foreign
     and Materials for                          expenditures and
     the Project (other                         90% of local
     than Parts B.2 and D)                      expenditures
(3)  Consultants' Ser-        2,640,000         100% of foreign
     vices and Equipment                        expenditures and
     for Part B.2 of                            90% of local
     the Project                                expenditures
(4)  Consultants' Ser-        2,430,000         100%
     vices and Training
     for the Project (other
     than Parts B.2 and D)
(5)  Incremental Recurrent    2,300,000         70% for expen-
     Costs for the Project                      ditures incurred
     (other than Part D)                        up to December 31,
                                                1995; and 50%
                                                thereafter
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of                140,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               1,200,000
                              __________
       TOTAL                  12,600,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
Page  10
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means the
incremental Project-related costs for office supplies, vehicle
operation and maintenance, and field work incurred by EPC/TS and
MLNR.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
      (b)   Category (3) until the Borrower shall have contracted
for the provision of the equipment and services required to carry
out Part B.2 of the Project under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association.
                         SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the capacity of
the Borrower and its population to manage environmental resources.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     National Environmental Resource Management System
1.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of EPC/TS to conduct
environmental resource planning and management, including (a)
construction of headquarters and regional facilities (including
offices and staff housing) and acquisition of office equipment, (b)
development and implementation of a management information system,
and (c) commissioning of studies regarding resource management.
2.    Training of, and provision of fellowships for, staff of EPC/TS
and other central and local governmental agencies in environmental
resource management areas, including environmental economics and
law, data management, communications, and library and information
sciences.
3.    Development and implementation of a public awareness program
regarding environmental resource management.
Part B:     Environmental Information System
1.    Development and implementation of an air and water quality
monitoring system. Preparation by EPC/TS of an environmental quality
data base.
2.    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Survey
Department to produce maps, conduct digital mapping and, through the
Ghana Survey School, to provide training, including rehabilitation
of facilities, acquisition of equipment, and training of staff.
Preparation by the Survey Department of analog and digital maps of
the Borrower's territory.
3.    Strengthening the operational capacity of RSAU, including
training of staff. Preparation by RSAU of land use maps.
4.    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Meteorological
Services Department, including training of staff. Development by the
Meteorological Services Department of a computerized meteorological
data base.
Page  11
5.    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Lands
Commission, including training of staff. Preparation by the Lands
Commission of a land ownership study and map of the Borrower's
territory.
6.    Strengthening the operational capacity of the Soils Research
Institute, including training of staff. Development by the Soils
Research Institute of a land suitability data base for the
Borrower's territory, including preparation of soil maps, slope
information and land utilization criteria.
Part C:     Land and Water Management
1.    Implementation of a pilot community-based land resource
management program, including promotion of the use of soil fertility
technologies, water and soil conservation technologies and biomass
enhancing technologies.
2.    Training of the staff of MOA's Department of Crop Services and
Department of Agricultural Engineering Services, and of non-
governmental organizations and other entities to support imple-
mentation of the community-based land resource management program
under Part C.1 of the Project, and to improve resource management.
3.    Operation within MOA of a Land and Water Management Central
Unit responsible for promoting sound land and water resource
management.
4.    Establishment and operation of a land management fund designed
to encourage sound land management practices by farmers.
Part D:     Coastal Wetland Management
1.    Demarcation under the Ramsar Convention and management of
coastal wetland sites at Muni Lagoon, Densu River Delta, Sakumo
Lagoon, Songor Lagoon, and Anlo/Keta Lagoon to promote the
conservation of wetlands and waterfowl in accordance with the
principles of such convention (including the preparation of
baseline, monitoring and other resource management related studies).
2.    Establishment and operation within MLNR's Department of Game
and Wildlife of a Wetlands Management Unit responsible for the
management of the Ramsar Sites and other coastal wetland sites.
3.    Construction and maintenance of an effluent disposal pipe and
a marine outfall for the Sakumo Lagoon.
4.    Establishment and operation of an investment support fund to
encourage investments in the Ramsar Sites.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000
or more each.
Page  12
3.    Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for (a) works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,600,000, and (b) goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Page  13
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
General Project Implementation
1.    The Borrower:
      (a)   shall operate (i) the EPC/TS, (ii) the Project
Coordinating Committee, (iii) each of the five Project Operations
Committees, (iv) the Land and Water Management Central Unit, (v) the
Wetlands Management Unit (established under Part D.2 of the
Project), and (vi) the Ghana Survey School, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   shall cause the University of Ghana to operate the RSAU
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
2.    Each Project Operations Committee, in consultation with
EPC/TS, shall:
      (a)   not later than January 1, 1993 and each June 1
thereafter submit to the Association for its comments a proposed
annual program for the subsequent calendar year covering plans for
formal education and training, workshops, public awareness campaigns
and other actions related to the efficient implementation of the
Project; and
      (b)   not later than September 30 next following such sub-
mission, adopt such program as modified to take into account the
comments of the Association.
3.    EPC/TS shall coordinate the acquisition of technical
assistance under this Agreement, the DANIDA Grant Agreement, the ODA
Grant Agreement and the GET Grant Agreement, in consultation with
the Association.
Parts A and B of the Project
4.    The Borrower shall, through EPC/TS, establish inter-sectoral
networks of government agencies, operating under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, to support the Borrower's
environmental planning, monitoring, management and enforcement
activities.
5.    EPC/TS shall, not later than January 1, 1994, adopt a human
resource development plan and establish a scheme of service
acceptable to the Association, and shall thereafter promptly
implement such plan and apply such criteria.
6.    The EPC/TS shall, in carrying out Part A.1(c) of the Project,
commission studies relating to: (a) the Volta River Basin, (b)
coastal wetlands, (c) environmentally sustainable development
strategies, (d) district level environmental problems, and (e)
hydrological improvements to Sakumo Lagoon, each under terms of
reference approved by the SI Project Operations Committee and
acceptable to the Association.
7.    EPC/TS shall, not later than June 1, 1993, submit to the
Association for its comments a communications strategy to carry out
the public awareness program under Part A.3 of the Project, and
shall thereafter promptly implement such strategy as revised to
incorporate the comments of the Association. The public awareness
Page  14
program shall support the use of electronic media and print
campaigns and of non-governmental organizations, and shall include
a component directed specifically at rural areas.
8.    In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, EPC/TS shall:
      (a)   establish, not later than June 1, 1993, environmental
quality criteria and identify sampling sites approved by the EQ
Project Operations Committee and acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   establish not later than December 1, 1993, threshold
standards of quality acceptable to the Association, and thereafter
review by December of each subsequent year such criteria, thresholds
and sites in consultation with the Association; and
      (c)   cause, and oversee, the undertaking of analyses of such
samplings (i) by CSIR's Institute of Aquatic Biology and Water
Resources Research Institute, and (ii) by other laboratories
inspected and approved by the Ghana Standards Board under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association.
9.    For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the principal of the
Ghana Survey School, together with instructors in adequate numbers,
shall be appointed and be in place not later than June 1, 1993,
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association. Any subsequent vacancy in any such
positions shall be promptly filled in a manner acceptable to the
Association.
10.   For purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, RSAU
shall:
      (a)   be staffed, not later than March 1, 1993, under terms of
reference and with personnel acceptable to the Association; and
      (b)   establish, not later than June 1, 1994, nomenclature and
classifications for land use mapping approved by the LI Project
Operations Committee and acceptable to the Association.
11.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than March 1, 1993, cause (i) CSIR's Institute
of Aquatic Biology, Water Resources Research Institute, and Soils
Research Institute, (ii) the Meteorological Services Department,
(iii) RSAU, and (iv) the Lands Commission to sign a memorandum of
understanding with EPC/TS, acceptable to the Association,
delineating their respective rights and responsibilities with
respect to the provision of services, payments and other
undertakings required to carry out Part B of the Project; and
      (b)   thereafter cause such entities to comply with the terms
of such memorandum, unless the Association shall otherwise agree.
12.   The SI Project Operations Committee shall consult with the
Association at least once every six months regarding the evolution
and results of studies carried out under Parts A and B of the
Project.
Part C of the Project
13.   In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and operate at least 3 field-based land management teams
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
14.   The Borrower shall operate, through the LWM Project Operations
Committee, the land management fund referred to in Part C.4 of the
Project under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The
LWM Project Operations Committee shall review such terms of
reference periodically in consultation with the Association.
Part D of the Project
Page  15
15.   In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than June 1, 1993, survey and establish boundary markers for
the Ramsar Sites as agreed upon with the Association. The Borrower
shall, not later than December 31, 1993, take all legislative and
administrative action agreed upon with the Association to establish
the Ramsar Sites as protected by the principles of the Ramsar
Convention under the laws of the Borrower. The Borrower shall manage
the Ramsar Sites in accordance with the principles of the Ramsar
Convention, as supplemented by the Regina Conference Recommendation,
including the requirement that the Borrower promote the wise use of
the Ramsar Sites. In accordance with the provisions of the Regina
Conference Recommendation, "wise use of the Ramsar Sites" shall mean
for this purpose: "their sustainable utilization for the benefit of
humankind in a way compatible with the maintenance of the natural
properties of the ecosystem."
16.   The Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain the Ramsar Sites as listed sites for purposes
of the Ramsar Convention; and
      (b)   comply with the terms of the Ramsar Convention.
17.   The Borrower shall operate the investment support fundreferred to in Part D.4 of 
the Project under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
18.   Not later than June 1 of each year, MLNR's Game and Wildlife
Department shall adopt a program to monitor Part D of the Project,
approved by the CWM Project Operations Committee and acceptable to
the Association, which program shall, among other things, require
the preparation by the following April 1 of a report describing the
results of such monitoring program.
19.   Not later than June 1, 1995, the Borrower shall adopt a
detailed design and management plan, acceptable to the Association,
for an education and research center at Songor, and shall thereafter
implement such plan in a timely manner.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $650,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
Page  16
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
Page  17
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
