Page  1
                                          CONFORMED COPY
                            GET GRANT NUMBER TF28619 GH
         Global Environmental Trust Fund Grant
                       Agreement
         (Coastal Wetlands Management Project)
                        between
                   REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
      acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
                      Trust Fund
                Dated December 21, 1992
                            GET GRANT NUMBER TF28619 GH
     GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1992, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant
funds provided by Participants of the Global Environment
Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET)
(the Trustee).
     WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), pursuant to
Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive
Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the
Global Environment Facility consisting of the GET,
Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone
Projects Trust Fund, to assist in the protection of the
global environment and promote thereby environmentally-
sound and sustainable economic development;
     (B)  certain members of the Bank (the Participants)
have provided resources by way of grants into the GET and
the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed,
to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the
Page  2
purposes of, and in accordance with, provisions of the
Resolution;
     (C)  the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance
from the resources of the GET in the financing of the
Project, and the Trustee has determined that such
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of
the Resolution;
     (D)  the Recipient has also requested the
International Development Association (the Association)
to provide additional financing towards the financing of
the Project and related activities, and by an agreement
of even date herewith, between the Recipient and the
Association, the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 12,600,000); and
     (E)  the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the GET Grant to the
Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
          (i)  Article I;
          (ii) Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6),
               (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and
               (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
          (iii)     Section 3.01;
          (iv) Section 4.01 and the first sentence of
               Section 4.09;
          (v)  Article V;
          (vi) Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f),
               (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
          (vii)     Section 8.01 (b);
          (viii)    Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04,
                    9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
          (ix) Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
          (x)  Article XI; and
          (xi) Sections 12.03 and 12.04.
     (b)  The General Conditions shall be modified as
follows:
          (i)  a new paragraph shall be added to the end
               of Section 2.01 to read as follows: "the
Page  3
               term 'Special Drawing Rights' and the
               symbol 'SDR' mean special drawing rights
               as valued by the International Monetary
               Fund in accordance with its Articles of
               Agreement";
          (ii) the term "Bank", wherever used in the
               General Conditions, other than in
               Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof
               and the last use of such term in Section
               5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except
               that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank"
               shall also include the International Bank
               for Reconstruction and Development acting
               in its own capacity;
          (iii)     the term "Borrower", wherever used
                    in the General Conditions, means the
                    Recipient;
          (iv) the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used
               in the General Conditions, means this
               Agreement;
          (v)  the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used
               in the General Conditions, means the GET
               Grant; and
          (vi) the term "Loan Account" wherever used in
               the General Conditions, means the GET
               Grant Account.
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
     (a)  "CWM Project Operations Committee" means the
Coastal Wetlands Management Project Operations Committee,
established by the Recipient for purposes of the Project;
     (b)  "EAP" means the Environmental Action Plan,
approved June 13, 1991, by the Recipient's Provisional
National Defence Council Committee of Secretaries;
     (c)  "EPC/TS" means the Technical Secretariat of the
Recipient's Environmental Protection Council;
     (d)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and
the Association for the Project and related activities,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development
Credit Agreement;
     (e)  "Ramsar Convention" means the Convention on
Wetlands of International Importance, especially as
Waterfowl Habitat, Ramsar, Iran, February 2, 1971, as
amended by the Paris Protocol of March 12, 1982;
     (f)  "Ramsar Sites" means the sites demarcated by
the Recipient under the Ramsar Convention in carrying out
Paragraph 1 of the Project; and
     (g)  "Regina Conference Recommendation" means
Recommendation 3.3 set forth in the report issued at the
Third Meeting of the Conference of the Contracting
Page  4
Parties under the Ramsar Convention held in Regina,
Saskatchewan, Canada, May 27 to June 5, 1987.
                      ARTICLE II
                     The GET Grant
     Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available
to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Agreement, the GET Grant in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GET Grant may be
withdrawn from the GET Grant Account in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for carrying out the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant.
     (b)  The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Trustee, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1997, or such later date as the Trustee shall establish.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such
later date.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project through EPC/TS, together with the
Recipient's Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices and
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Recipient
and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the GET Grant shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Page  5
Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient
responsible for carrying out the Project.
     (b)  The Recipient shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Trustee;
          (ii) furnish to the Trustee as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Trustee shall have
               reasonably requested; and
(iii)     furnish to the Trustee such other information
          concerning said records and accounts and the
          audit thereof as the Trustee shall from time
          to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the GET Grant Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Trustee has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the GET Grant Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Trustee's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
                Remedies of the Trustee
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the EAP, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out; and
Page  6
     (b)  (i)  subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Recipient to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any loan
                    made to the Recipient for the
                    financing of the Project shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof; and
          (ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Recipient establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Trustee that: (A)
               such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused
               by the failure of the Recipient to
               perform any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Recipient
               from other sources on terms and
               conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Recipient under this
               Agreement.
                      ARTICLE VI
              Effectiveness; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as a
condition to the effectiveness of the GET Grant
Agreement, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in
effect until the GET Grant has been fully disbursed and
the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their
obligations hereunder.
                      ARTICLE VII
      Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Provisional National Defence
Council's Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance and
            Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic
            Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
Page  7
          Cable address:           Telex:
               ECONOMICON                 2205 MIFAEP GH
               Accra
     For the Trustee:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                      82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF GHANA
               By /s/ Joseph Abbey
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
                  DEVELOPMENT
               as Trustee of the Global Environment
               Trust Fund
               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GET Grant, the
allocation of the amounts of the GET Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                    GET Grant Allocated    % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)    Civil Works      1,660,000       100% of foreign
   for the Project                      expenditures and
   (other than                          70% of local
   Paragraph 4                          expenditures
   of the Project)
(2)    Equipment and      900,000       100% of foreign
   Vehicles for the                     expenditures and
Page  8
   Project (other                       90% of local
   than Paragraph                       expenditures
   4 of the Project)
(3)    Consultants' Ser-  900,000       100%
   vices and Training
   for the Project
   (other than
   Paragraph 4
   of the Project)
(4)    Investment Support 280,000       100%
   Fund Expenditures
(5)    Incremental        630,000       70% for expendi-
   Recurrent                            tures incurred up
   Costs                                to December 31,
                                        1995; and 50%
                                        thereafter
(6)    Unallocated        630,000
                        _________
       TOTAL            5,000,000
                        =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Recipient;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Recipient;
     (c)  the term "investment support fund expenditures"
means expenditures for civil works, equipment, vehicles
and consultants' services provided to beneficiaries under
the investment support fund referred to in Paragraph 4 of
the Project; and
     (d)  the term "incremental recurrent costs" means
the incremental Project-related costs for office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance and field
work incurred by the Game and Wildlife Department of the
Recipient's Ministry of Lands and National Resources.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  under Category (4) until the Recipient shall
have established terms of reference, acceptable to the
Trustee, for the operation of the investment support fund
referred to in Paragraph 4 of the Project.
4.   If the Trustee shall have determined at any time
that any payment made from the GET Grant Account was used
for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into
the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
                      SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to improve the
management of the Recipient's coastal wetlands.
     The Project consists of the following, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Recipient and the
Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
1.   Demarcation under the Ramsar Convention and
management of coastal wetland sites at Muni Lagoon, Densu
River Delta, Sakumo Lagoon, Songor Lagoon, and Anlo/Keta
Lagoon to promote the conservation of wetlands and
waterfowl (including the preparation of baseline,
monitoring and other resource management related
studies).
2.   Establishment and operation within the Recipient's
Department of Game and Wildlife, Ministry of Lands and
Natural Resources, of a Wetlands Management Unit
responsible for management of the Ramsar Sites and other
coastal wetland sites.
3.   Construction and maintenance of an effluent disposal
pipe and a marine outfall for the Sakumo Lagoon.
4.   Establishment and operation of an investment support
fund to encourage investments in the Ramsar Sites.
5.   Development and implementation of a public awareness
program regarding coastal wetlands, including conducting
workshops and training programs.
                         * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1997.
                      SCHEDULE 3
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more each.
3.   Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price
inspection by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods
manufactured in the Republic of Ghana may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
Page  10
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Recipient
may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph
5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items for (a) works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000, and (b)
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Trustee.
2.   Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $40,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part E:   Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Trustee prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which
withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the
Project, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
Page  11
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                      SCHEDULE 4
                Implementation Program
1.   The Recipient shall, not later than June 1, 1993,
survey and establish boundary markers for the Ramsar
Sites as agreed upon with the Trustee. The Recipient
shall, not later than December 31, 1993, take all
legislative and administrative actions agreed upon with
the Trustee to establish the Ramsar Sites as protected by
the principles of the Ramsar Convention under the laws of
the Recipient. The Recipient shall manage the Ramsar
Sites in accordance with the principles of the Ramsar
Convention, as supplemented by the Regina Conference
Recommendation, including the requirement that the
Recipient promote the wise use of the Ramsar Sites. In
accordance with the provisions of the Regina Conference
Recommendation, "wise use of the Ramsar Sites" shall mean
for this purpose: "their sustainable utilization for the
benefit of humankind in a way compatible with the
maintenance of the natural properties of the ecosystem."
2.   The Recipient shall:
     (a)  maintain the Ramsar Sites as listed sites for
purposes of the Ramsar Convention, and
     (b)  comply with the terms of the Ramsar Convention.
3.   The Recipient shall operate the CWM Project
Operations Committee under terms of reference acceptable
to the Trustee.
4.   The Recipient shall operate the Wetlands Management
Unit established under Paragraph 2 of the Project under
terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee.
5.   The Recipient shall operate the investment support
fund referred to in Paragraph 4 of the Project under
terms of reference acceptable to the Trustee.
6.   Not later than June 1 of each year, the Game and
Wildlife Department of the Recipient's Ministry of Lands
and Natural Resources shall adopt a program to monitor
the Project, approved by the CWM Project Operations
Committee and acceptable to the Trustee, which program
shall, among other things, require the preparation by the
following April 1 of a report describing the results of
such monitoring program.
7.   Not later than June 1, 1995, the Recipient shall
adopt a detailed design and management plan, acceptable
to the Trustee, for an education and research center at
Songor and shall thereafter implement such plan in a
timely manner.
8.   The CWM Project Operations Committee, in
consultation with EPC/TS, shall:
     (a)  not later than January 1, 1993, and each June
1 thereafter, submit to the Trustee for its comments a
proposed annual program for the subsequent calendar year
covering plans for formal education and training,
workshops, public awareness campaigns and other actions
related to the efficient implementation of the Project;
and
Page  12
     (b)  not later than September 30 next following such
submission, adopt such program as modified to take into
account the comments of the Trustee.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the GET Grant allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $150,000 to be withdrawn from the
GET Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be
made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee a request or
requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GET Grant
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special
               Account, the Recipient shall furnish to
               the Trustee requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as
               the Trustee shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Recipient shall furnish to
               the Trustee the documents and other
               evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested. On the basis
               of each such request, the Trustee shall,
               on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw
               from the GET Grant Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as
               the Recipient shall have requested and
               as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for
               eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee from
the GET Grant Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
Page  13
evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the
Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the
Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee
such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Trustee shall not be required to make
further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Trustee shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Recipient directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GET
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GET Grant Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Trustee, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee
into the Special Account shall be made until the
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Trustee shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee,
refund to the Trustee all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the GET Grant Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  14
