                                                             51166


              COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT

                         PLANS: GHANA




                                                       Best Available Copy




                  YAA NTIAMOA-BAIDU and CHRIS GORDON

                          Zoology Department
                          University of Ghana
                             Legon, Accra




PREPARED FOR THE WORLD BANK AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
COUNCIL, GHANA. AUGUST 1991
                        OTHER CONTRIBUTORS 




The authors   are   grateful   for   the   contribution   made    by   the
following:
Dr. G. T. Agyepong,        Land    use    Ecologist,            Geography
                           Department,   University        of      Ghana,
                           sections 2.1.1 - 2.1.5.

Mr. D. Abbiw,              Botanist, Botany Department, Universi ty
                           of Ghana, section 2.2.1.
Dr. K.  Ohene-Konadu,      Sociologist,  Sociology   Department,
                           University of Ghana, sections 2.3   &
                           3.3.

Dr. K.  A. Tutu,           Economist,    Economics    Department,
                           University of Ghana, section 8.1.

Prof. E. Laing, ' \        Botany Department, University qf Ghana,
                           provided very useful comments on the
                           draft report.   The authors also wish
                           to acknowledge his encouragement and
                           moral support during the preparation
                           of the report.

Mr. S. K. Nyame, Assistant Game Warden, and Mr. Alfred Ali Nuoh,
Game Assistant, Save the      Seashore Birds Project (SSBP-G),
assisted in the data collection and analysis.

Mr J. K. Aguzie, Mr. S.B. Duodu and Mr. J. D. Drah, Cartographic
Technicians, Geography Department, Universi ty of Ghana, prepared
the maps.

The support of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds
(RSPB) ,  U. K. , and  the   International   Council   for  Bird
Preservation, for the SSBP-G is gratefully acknowledged.     The
coastal bird surveys undertaken by the SSBP-G over the past six
years, which brought the international ornithological importance
of the Ghana coast into the limelight, could not have been
undertaken without the financial support of the RSPB.
,

                                                                  i


                                   CONTENTS



     SYNOPSIS                                                   vii 


     GENERAL INTRODUCTION                                        1


     SECTION    1.          COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION        4

                1.1.        Justification                        5

                1.2         Management strategy                  9

                1. 2.1      Management options                   9

                1. 2.2      Management objectives               11 

                1. 2.3      Management actions                  11 

                1. 2.4      Research and monitoring             13 

                1.3         Institutional arrangements          14 


     SECTION    2.
                2.1
                2.~1
                2.1. 2
                2.1. 3
                            SONGOR RAMSAR SITE
                            Introduction
                            situation
                            Geomorphology
                            Climate
                                                            ,   18 

                                                                19

                                                                19 

                                                                19 

                                                                19 

                2.1. 4      Hydrology                           19 

                2.1. 5      Human settlements and land tenure   20 

                2.1. 6      Land use                            20 

                2.1. 7      Cultural aspects                    21 

                2.1. 8      Threats and conflicts               22 

                2.2         Flora and fauna                     22 

                2.2.1       Vegetation                          22 

                2.2.2       Fauna                               23 

                2.3         Public conSUltation                 26 

                2.4         Management strategy                 29 

                2.4.1       Objectives                          29 

                2.4.2       Management actions                  29 

                2.4.2.1     Site designation                    30 

                2.4.2.2     zonation                            30 

                2.4.2.3     Habitat management                  32 

                2.4.2.4     Faunal management                   34 

                2.4.2.5     Education/field research centre     34 

                2.5         Research and monitoring             34 

                2.6         Mechanism for implementation        36 

                2.7         site management requirements        37 


                3.          MUNI RAMSAR SITE                    38    

                3.1         Introduction                        39    

                3.1.1       Situation                           39    

                3.1. 2      Geomorphology                       39    

                3.1. 3      Climate                             39    

                3.1. 4      Hydrology                           39    

                3.1. 5      Historical/Cultural aspects         40    

                3.1. 6      Human settlements/land ownership    40    

                3.1. 7      Land use                            40    

                3.2         Flora and fauna                     42    

                3.2.1       Vegetation                          42    

                                                           ii 


          3.2.2     Fauna                                 42 

          3.3       Public consultation                   45 

          3.4       Management strategy                   47 

          3.4.1     Objectives                            47 

          3.4.2     Management actions                    47 

          3.4.2.1   Site designation                      48 

          3.4.2.2   Zonation                              48 

          3.4.2.3   Habitat management                    49 

          3.4.2.4   Faunal management                     50 

          3.5       Research and monitoring               51 

          3.6       Mechanism for implementation          52 

          3.7       Site management requirements          54 

SECTION   4.        SAKUMO RAMSAR SITE                    55 

          4.1       Introduction                          56 

          4.1.1     Situation                             56 

          4.1. 2    Climate                               56 

          4.1. 3
          ~.1. 4
           .1. 5
          4.1. 6
          4.1. 7
                    Hydrology
                    Land use
                    Cultural aspects
                    Threats
                                               ,
                    Human settlements/land ownership
                                                          56 

                                                          57 

                                                          57 

                                                          59 

                                                          60 

          4.2       Flora and fauna                       61 

          4.2.1     Vegetation                            61 

          4.2.2     Fauna                                 61 

          4.3       Management strategy                   66 

          4.3.1     Objectives                            66 

          4.3.2     Management actions                    66 

          4.3.2.1   site designation                      66 

          4.3.2.2   Habitat management                    67 

          4.3.2.3   Faunal management                     68 

          4.3.2.4   Educational/Recreational facilities   68 

          4.4       Research and monitoring               69 

          4.5       Mechanism for implementation          70 

          4.6       Site management requirements          71 

SECTION   5.        DENSU DELTA RAMSAR SITE               72 

          5.1       Introduction                          73 

          5.1.1     Situation                             73 

          5.1. 2    Climate                               73 

          5.1. 3    Hydrology                             73 

          5.1. 4    Human settlements/land ownership      74 

          5.1. 5    Land use                              74 

          5.1. 6    Conflicts                             75 

          5.2       Flora and fauna                       76 

          5.2.1     Vegetation                            76 

          5.2.2     Fauna                                 76 

          5.3       Management strategy                   80 

          5.3.1     Objectives                            80 

          5.3.2     Management actions                    80 

          5.3.2.1   site designation                      80 

          5.3.2.2   Zonation                              81 

          5.3.2.3   Habitat management                    81 

          5.3.2.4   Faunal management                     82 

          5.3.2.5   Water management                      82 

          5.3.2.6   Educational/Visitor facilities        82 

                                                    iii 


           5.4    Research and monitoring            83 

           5.5    Mechanism for implementation       84 

           5.6    site management requirements       85 


SECTION    6.     ANLO-KETA RAMSAR SITE              86 

           6.1    Introduction                       87 

           6.2    Ornithological importance of 

                  the Keta wetland                   87 

           6.3    Threats                            92 

           6.4    Management strategy                93


SECTION    7.     TRAINING NEEDS, TECHNICAL
                  ASSISTANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION 

                  PROGRAMME                          95 

           7.1    Training                           96 

           7.2    Technical Assistance               97 

           7.3    Programme of implementation        98 


SECTION 
     1
           8.
           8.1 
           8.3 
           8.2 
                  COST ESTIMATES
                  Introduction
                  Cost tables
                  Supporting tables for 

                                            ,
      101 

                                                    102
                                                    103 


                  cost estimates                    109 


                  REFERENCES                        112 


                  APPENDICES                        114 


                  MAPS                              131 

                                                             iv

                                 LIST OF TABLES

       Table   1 species counts and populations of
                  seashore birds recorded at the key
                  coastal sites                               5
       Table   2   International importance of selected
                   sites for waders.                          6
                                    
       Table   3   Peak counts and national importance
                   of the most abundant seashore bird
                   species recorded at Songor.               24
,,':
       Table   4   Peak counts and national importance
                   of the most abundant seashore bird
                   species recorded at Muni.                 43
       Table   5   Sakumo Lagoon Fisheries.                  58
       Table   6   species and status of an~al life
                   recorded in Sakumo Lagoon in the 1970s.   62
       Table   7   Peak counts and national importance
                   of the most abundant seashore bird
                   species recorded at Sakumo.               63
       Table   8   Peak counts and national importance
                   of the most abundant seashore bird
                   species recorded at Densu Delta.          77
       Table   9   Breeding birds at Densu delta.            79
       Table 10    Peak counts and national importance
                   of the most abundant seashore bird
                   species recorded at Anlo-Keta.            89
       Table 11    Technical assistance requirements.        98
       Table 12    Implementation programme.                 99
                                                               v

                      LIST OF FIGURES



Figure   1    Map of coastal Ghana showing key seashore bird
              sites.

Figure    2   Seasonal changes. in numbers of seashore birds
              recorded at Songor.

Figure   ,3   Seasonal changes in numbers of seashore birds
              recorded at Muni.

Figure    4   Seasonal changes in numbers of seashore birds
              recorded at Sakumo.

Figure    5   Seasonal changes in numbers of   seashore birds
              recorded at Densu delta.

Figure    6   Seasonal ~hanges in numbers of seashore birds\
              recorded a Anlo-Keta.

Figure    7   Map of proposed Songor Ramsar site: situation.

Figure    8   Map of proposed Songor Ramsar site: zones.

Figure    9   Map of proposed Muni Ramsar site: situation.

Figure   10   Map of proposed Muni Ramsar site: zones.

Figure   11   Map of proposed Sakumo Ramsar site: situation.

Figure   12   Sakumo Ramsar site, core area.

Figure   13   Map of proposed Densu delta Ramsar site.

Figure   14   Map of proposed Anlo-Keta Ramsar site.
                                                                      vi
                             LIST OF APPENDICES



      Appendix   1    Seashore bird species records for the proposed 

,:,                   Ramsar sites. 


l'    Appendix   2    criteria for selection of Ramsar sites. 

      Appendix   3    Climatic data for the proposed sites. 

      Appendix   4    Population data on settlements within the proposed 

                      Ramsar sites  

      Appendix   .5
                                                .
                      List of common plant specl.es recorded at Songor.
      Appendix   6    List of common plant species recorded at Muni.
      Appendix   7    List of common plant species recorded at Sakumo.
      Appendix   8    List o~ plant species recorded at Densu Delt$.
                                                              vii
                            SYNOPSIS


Ghana's coastal wetlands form an ecologically important unit,
providing feeding, roosting and nesting sites for thousands of
migratory and resident birds. Bight of the coastal wetlands:
Keta lagoon, Songor lagoon, Sakumo lagoon, Kor1e lagoon, Densu
delta, Huni lagoon, B1mins Salt Pans and Bsiama beach, qualify
as internationally important wetlands under the Ramsar* criteria
of supporting 20,000 waterfow1s or 1% of the population of a
waterfowl species.   Keta and songor each holds over 100,000
seashore birds, and supports internationally important numbers
of seven species of waders. Sakumo, Densu delta, Kor1e and Huni
each holds 23,000 - 35,000 birds and supports internationally
important populationS of up to 6 wader species.
The Ghana coast is also important for marine turtles, providing
nesting grounds for at least three species of turtles, all of
which are listed fn the IUCN Red Data list of Threatened\ Animals.
Coastal wetlands provide nutrient rich habitats which are used
for spawning and as nursery grounds by many species of fish.
These wetlands therefore form a vital link for the survival of
Ghana's declining marine fishery resource.
Hore importantly, Ghana's coastal wetlands provide resources such
as, shell, salt, thatch and wood, which are major sources of
in90me and play a significant role in the socio-economic and
cultural life of the coastal communities.
All the important coastal wetlands are threatened by pollution
from both solid and liquid wastes from domestic and industrial
sources and/or proposed urban/industrial developments. All the
wetlands are situated in densely populated areas, and as human
population in the country increases, the demands for wetland
resources and the threats to these valuable ecosystems should be
expected to increase.                                   .
 In the past, tradi tional strategies associated with lagoon
 fetishes and cu1 tura1 beliefs protected some coastal wetland
 habitats and regulated the exploitation of wetland resources 
.Unfortunately most of the traditional controls are no longer
 respected. There is, therefore, an urgent need to develop a more
 effective management scheme for these coastal ecosystems.




         Ramsar Convention is The Convention on Wetlands of 

              Importance, especially as Waterfowl Habitat. 

                                                            viii
The management strategy advocated aims at maintaining the
ecological integrity of the wetlands, while ensuring the
optimization of wetland resources and the improvement of the
quality of life for the coastal communities, through sustainable
development. It recommends the establishment of the six most
important coastal wetlands: Keta, Songor, Sakumo, Korle, Densu
delta and Huni, as Ramsar sites. In designating and protecting
these wetlands as Ramsar sites, Ghana will be fulfilling her
international obligation under the Ramsar convention, which she
is signatory to. The Ramsar designation is preferred to other
protected area categories (eg. National Parks) because Ramsar
advocates a multiple use approach to management, and allows
sustainable utilization and compatible developments within the
sites.
The management actions advocated include:
     - boundary demarcation and legal designation of the sites;
     - provision of necessary resources, infrastructure and
     ~aQilities (funds, buildings, roads, dguipment, vehicles)
     required for the implementation of the management Cf the
     sites;
        establishment of a zonation system, to provide
     sanctuaries for adequate protection of birds and other
     fauna, while allowing sound land use practices and
     sustainable development in other parts of the wetland;
        initiation of appropriate research and monitoring
     programs which would provide the requisite data for
     formulation of wetland policies and form the basis for
     management actions;
     - institution of appropriate habitat and faunal management
     programs;
        establishment of conservation education and public
     awareness programs to ensure local understanding of the
     project's objectives and elicit local participation in the
     conservation actions advocated;
     - provision of c~nditions and initiation of campaigns aimed
     at improving sanitation, water supply, and the general
     health of the coastal communities and environment.
    defining institutional arrangements for the implementation of
 the progru, the multi-sectoral nature of the activities and
 problems associated with the coastal wetlands is emphasized. A
'National Wetlands Expert committee, comprising high level
 representation of all the institutions whose activities affect
 the coastal zone, is advocated to advise on policy matters. The
 cOmmittee would have a direct link with the government. Policy
 deCisions would be communicated to the implementing agencies
 through a secretariat provided within the Environmental
            Council (EPC). The Department of Game and Wildlife
                                                                ix
is recommended to be the lead implementing agency, who would work
with other relevant agencies, and with site management committees
made up of relevant local organs, to ensure local participation.
Provisions have been made for the. training of required personnel.
Technical assistance and consultancy needs for the areas where
expertise may not be available within the Department of Game and
wildlife have also been identified.        Implementation of the
program is phased out over a 5-year period to ensure efficient
execution of the actions advocated.
Three of the proposed sites have specific problems which must be
addressed to ensure successful implementation of the Ghana
coastal wetlands conservation program:
Sa.k.umo lagoon, si tuated on the outskirts of Tema is already
heavily polluted from human and domestic waste. Plans for the
Tema Sewage Treatment Plant being undertaken under the World Bank
Urban II project, proposes the discharge of treated effluent into
the lagoon. The lagoon, which is qonnected to the sea by only
a narrow non-operational sluice, \ is already suffering from
nutrient over-load. Any input of additional waste will seriously
affect the ecological integrity of the lagoon, and there is a
need for critical environmental impact assessment before any
developments take place.
songor lagoon area currently sustains a large number of people
who earn their livelihood from traditional salt winning. Some
improvement in technology could increase salt productivity
wi thout destroying the immense wildlife value of the site. Plans
by the Minerals Commission proposes the development of a large
scale salt industry in the area, with an estimated production
capaci ty of 1.2 million tons per yr. The proposed scale of
operation could undoubtedly cause major changes in tbe ecological
integrity of the lagoon and the social/traditional structures in
the area; and calls for critical evaluation of development
options which would minimize any adverse effects.
  Keta lagoon is a special case. The communities living in the
  vicinity of this important wetland face severe problems oL
  coastal erosion and periodic flooding, which has resu1 ted in
  serious social problems. Any attempts at conserving the Keta
  wetland for its immense ornithological value, will not succeed,
  Unless it first addresses the socio-ecologica1 problems. The
, establishment of the Anlo-Keta Ramsar site should, therefore, aim
톋t using conservation to improve the quality of life for the
  people in the area, whose very existence, cultural identity, and
  whole environment is seriously threatened.        The management
  strategy for this site should therefore include detailed study
      the socio-eco1ogica1 problems and incorporate measures to
          the needs of the local communities.
                       GENERAL INTRODUCTION



BACKGROUND
The Coastal Wetlands Management Plan was prepared as part of the
Environmental Resource Management Project (ERMP), which is being
prepared by the Ghana Government for consideration by the World
Bank and other donors.    A major component of the ERMP is the
conservation of a number of sites of particular importance
because of their biological diversity, or because they are of
international importance as habitats for sea- and shore- birds
and/or marine turtles.   The objective of the assignme'nt was to
prepare an inventory of the biological resources of the selected
sites, in order to demonstrate their national and international
importance as biological reserves, and to prepare proposals for
their conservation under the biodiversity component of the ERMP.


TERMS OF REFERENCE

(a) Review the Indicative Co~stal Zone Management Plan prepared            \
for the EPC and identify those actions that should be included
in the biodiversity component of the project.

(b)   Review all published data on the flora and fauna of the
identified sites and undertake rapid inventory to update existing
data.

(c) Prepare detailed management plans for two coastal sites and
outline management plans for three other coastal sites.

(d)  Identify the various institutions that may be involved in
the   implementation    of   the   proposed   actions,   their
responsibilities and present mandates.

(e) Consult with communities involved in the protection of the
priority sites in the coastal zone in order to develop detailed
management plans for implementation under the project.

(f)   Prepare detailed implementation programs for the ,selected
sites    including   infrastructure,  equipment  and   staffing
requirements.

(g) Describe appropriate arrangements for the management of the
proposed programs, following critical review of the proposals in
the Indicative Coastal Zone Management Plan, clearly identifying
the responsibilities of the various agencies involved.

(h)     Identify data    requirements  for  the  planning  and
~nvironmental  monitoring of proposed programs and linkages to
future data management systems in EPC or elsewhere.

                training   needs   for   agency   staff   or   community
 --''''''.L S
                                                                   2

(j)     Identify   any   consul tancy   or   technical   ass istance
requirements.
(k)    Identify the investment and recurrent costs of the
anticipated program of work over a five-year period including
investments in new equipment, vehicles and civil works, recurrent
costs of staff salaries and the operation and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment.


THE INDICATIVE COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT PLAN
 The Indicative Coastal Zone Management Plan was prepared by a
 team of consultants at the request of the Environmental
 Protection council in 1990. The main objective was to produce
'a synthesis document which would help guide future development
 in the coastal zone on a sustainable basis. The document gives



     (a)
                                  ,
 a broad picture of the critical issues that require to be
 addressed for management of the zone and identifies three main
 actions:
            Development of a management system for the coastal
                                                                       ,
     zone: Details are provided for the setting up of a coastal
     management system. The document advocates the avoidance of
     creating new institutions; and the effective use of existing
     administrative and technical departments, NGOs and local
     people within the existing or modified legal provisions.
     These two points underscore what is, perhaps, the most
     important role that the Environmental Protection council
     would be required to play, i.e. coordination.

     The Indicative Coastal Zone Management Plan proposes a three
     tier coastal management scheme (National, Regional and
     District).   The present document considers this approach
     rather top heavy and impractical for the management of the
     selected   coastal   wetlands  and   proposes   alternative
     mechanisms for implementation of the coastal wetlands
     management strategy.
     (b) The protection of selected coastal areas: The document
     identifies the sites along the coast which need protection
     and gives the criteria for their selection.        It also
     identifies the protected area category for each site. The
     present study has re-assessed the sites and prioritized
     them for conservation action.

     (c)  Setting up of a coastal zone data base:    The proper
     acquisition and handling of data is a basic pre-requisite
     of any planning process and the centralized data-base
     advocated would be of immense value in guiding development
     policies in the coastal zone.   It is, however, considered
     more appropriate to have this within a national framework,
     in view of the fact that many inland processes have
     significant effects on the coast.
                                                                    -I
                                                                     !



                                                                3

THE COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PLANS

The present report identifies the internationally and nationally
important lagoons and wetland habitats along the Ghana coast
which require priority conservation action.    It recommends the
establishment and protection of the five most important coastal
wetlands as Ramsar sites: Keta lagoon, Songor, Sakumo, Densu
delta and Muni.     It outlines a management strategy for the
selected sites and defines institutional framework and mechanisms
for the implementation of the      conservation actions proposed
(Section 1).

sections 2-5 provides detailed management plans for four of the
sites, Muni, Songor, Sakumo, and Densu delta. The fourth site,
Keta, is a special case. Although the site is the most important
seashore bird site on the Ghana coast, it is also the most
problematic. The international importance of the Keta lagoon and
the socio-ecological problems in the area are high-lighted; and
recommendations on studies required for the preparation of
detailed management plans for th~ site are given in section 6.      \
Section 7 identifies training needs and technical assistance
requirements; and also provides a phased plan for implementation
of the proposed programs. Cost estimates are given in section
8.

It should be emphasised at this point that the preparation of a
management plan is a dynamic process. The plans outlined here
were based on the information currently available on the sites.
As more data become available through the scientific studies
recommended, it would be necessary to review and update the plans
as and when necessary.




                                                                         ,
                                                                         .
                                            4




                           "/       .'''.
                            ,       J.~;




                 .,.   j




                                    ..
                                    ;,

           SECTION\l
                                ~




COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION": 


             GHANA 

                                                                5

               1. COASTAL WETLANDS CONSERVATION
                             GHANA




1.1.   JUSTIFICATION

The importance of the Ghana coast for sea- and shorebirds is well
documented (Grimes, 1974; 1987; Macdonald, 1978; Ntiamoa-Baidu
and Grieve, 1987; Ntiamoa-Baidu and Hepburn, 1988; Ntiamoa-Baidu,
1988; 1991).    Eighty sites along the Ghana coast, comprising
lagoons, estuaries, salt pan complexes and stretches of sandy
beaches have been regularly monitored by the survey team of the
Save the Seashore Birds Project (SSBP-G) since 1986. This work
undertaken with sponsorship from the Royal Society for the
Protection of Birds (RSPB), U.K., has identified thirteen key
coastal wetlands which provide important feeding, roosting and
nesting sites for thousands of migratory and resident seashore
bi~dS (Fig. 1).

Waterfowl species of significance in hoastal Ghana include
waders, terns, herons and egrets.   Eleven of the 42 species of
waders recorded on the Ghana coast occur in internationally
important populations.   These are:    curlew sandpiper, little
stint, sanderling, spotted red~hank, greenshank, grey plover,
ringed plover, black-winged stilt, avocet, black-tailed godwit
and turnstone (scientific names of all bird species are given in
Appendix 1)

Eight of the thirteen key sites : Keta Lagoon, Songor Lagoon,
Sakumo lagoon, Korle lagoon, Densu delta, Muni Lagoon, Elmina
Salt Pans and Esiama Beach, qualify as internationally important
wetlands by virtue of the species and lor populations of water
fowls they support (Tables 1 & 2). Over 90% of the bird species
supported by these sites are migratory, including the threatened
Roseate tern, Sterna dougallii.


           Species counts and populations of seashore birds
           recorded at the key coastal sites (as at 30th June
           1991).

                No. of spec1es       Estimated bird
                recorded.            population*
Reta Lagoon            72            109,300
Songor Lagoon          57            111,000
Sakumo Lagoon          66             32,500
   Ie Lagoon           31             21,700
   su delta            57             35,000
   i Lagoon            42             23,000
    na Salt Pans       43              8,600
  iama Beach           43              9,700


 . Based on peak counts of species recorded on each site.
                                                                                                                                 6

Table    z.   International   i~rtance   of selected sites for waders.

Specfes                       1% of estimated                                    Peak counts*** recorded at
                              East Atlantic   Keta     Songor   Sakl..ll1O       Korle   Densu delta      Huni    Elmfna   fsiam
                              Flyway
                              population*

Spotted redshank               300             8,330   10,060   3,280                       550                     430

Greenshank                     500             6,900   .4,770   1,180                                               610    .
Ringed plover                 2,000            2,860    3,010                    3,500

Curlew sandpiper              4,500           14,810    6,920   3,270            7,050    4,700
Sanderling                    1,000                                                                                            4,!iD
little stint                  2,000            5,790    2,530   2,570            5,780    2,610
Black tailed godwit           1,500            1,270            1,500

Avlcet                          700            1,560    3,740                \
Black-winged
stilt**                          60           12,080    4,400      900             450      310             150     230


* 1% criteria based on Altenburgh et al (1982); Smit & Piersma (1989).

** Partial migrant, numbers recorded comprises C.55% palaearctic; 45% residents.
*** Peak counts as at 30th June 1991.
                                           -        ~-   --- ----   -- --       -




                                                                            7

  In addition to the migratory birds, the Ghana coast provides
  nesting grounds for marine turtles.     Three species of marine
  turtles have been reported to nest on the coast: the Loggerhead
  Caretta caretta, the Green Turtle Chelonia mydas and the
  Leatherback Dermochelys coriacea (Toth and Toth, 1974).       All
  three are listed in IUCN Red Data List of Threatened Animals.
  Marine turtles are also fully protected by the country's wildlife
  laws (L.I.685). However enforcement of this law is ineffective
  and marine turtles are heavily exploited for their eggs and meat
  in most of the villages along the Ghana coast. The actual status
  and breeding ecology of marine turtles in Ghana is unknown, but
  several sites along the coast, including the stretch of sandy
  beach between Srogboe and Ada, are known to be important turtle
  nesting grounds.

   Fish provides an important protein source in the Ghanaian diet.
   The per capita consumption is estimated at 20 kg yr.- 1
\  constituting some 30% of the est~mated protein requirement
   (Ministry of Agriculture, 1989).   Current figures for Ghana's
   fish production levels indicate that the country's marine fish
   resources are declining rapidly.

  Coastal wetland habitats are vital for the survival of the marine
  fisheries industry. Many wetlands provide nutrient rich habitats
  whicp are used by fish for spawning, as nursery grounds and as
  habitat for adult fish. It is estimated that two-thirds of the
  fish we eat depend upon wetlands at some stage in their life
  cycle (Dugan, 1990). In Ghana, Kwei (1978) reports spawning of
  the horse mackerel Caranx hippos in october - January, and the
  presence of juveniles in or near estuaries and lagoons that open
  directly into the sea.    It is imperative, therefore, that the
  lagoons and estuaries which are so essential for the maintenance
  of marine fish populations should be protected and managed to
  ensure sustainability of our marine fisheries.

  More importantly, wetland resources playa very significant role
  in the socio-economic life of Ghana's coastal communities.      A
  large number of the coastal people depend on lagoon fisheries for
  their livelihood, while for others, lagoon fisheries provide, a
  significant income supplement. (Mensah, 1979; Gordon, 1991;
  Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1991). Resources like shells (used in animal feed
  and the building industry), salt (for domestic and industrial
  Use), grass (for thatch and mats) and mangrove (for fuel wood)
  provide a valuable contribution to the livelihood of coastal
  people.

  Most of Ghanats important coastal wetlands are situated in areas
  which have dense human population; and a number of them are
  already, serioUSly threatened by pollution from both solid and
  liquid waste from domestic and industrial sources (Biney,
  1986 ; 1990; Gordon, 1990). various proposed developments (e.g.
  the Tema Sewage Treatment at Sakumo and the industrial salt
  complex at Songor) also pose threats to the coastal lagoon
  habitats.    As human population in the country increases, the
  dern~nn~ for coastal wetland resources and the threats to these
                                                               8

In the past, rules and regulations including closed seasons I
sacred days and taboos, associated with religious beliefs and
lagoon fetishes protected the lagoon habitat and regulated over
exploitation of wetland resources.          Unfortunately these
traditions are no longer respected and the effectiveness of the
rules and taboos as conservation tools have been eroded (Ntiamoa
Baidu, 1991).
It is obvious from the the above that there is an urgent need to
plan and develop an integrated management strategy, 'that would
effectively ensure the maintenance of the ecological integrity
of Ghana's coastal wetlands and the sustainable utilization of
the resources they provide.
Ghana is party to two international conventions which seek to
protect wetland habitats and migratory animals : the Convention
on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl
Habitat   (Ramsar convention); and the Convention on the
Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animal           (Bonn
Convention.   Under the Ramsarcon'-\ention, Ghana is obliged to
designate, "suitable wetlands" (ref. appendix 2 for criteria)
within her territory for inclusion in the list of wetlands of
international importance (Ramsar sites), to protect such listed
wetlands and to promote wise use of all wetlands.       The Bonn
Convention obliges Ghana to protect migratory       species and
specifically, to provide strict protection for species in danger
of extinction. Ghana therefore has a duty to the international
community to protect some of her important     wetlands and the
wildlife they support.

Ghana's ratification of the Ramsar and Bonn Conventions (in 1988)
indicate her concern for wetland habitats and migratory birds.
Ghana further demonstrated her concern for migratory species by
placing all terns on the country's list of protected species
(Legislative Instrument 1357).       These initiatives clearly
indicate that the Ghana government is willing to institute
appropriate measures for the conservation of wetlands and the
wildlife they support.     However, the numerous more pressing
socio-economic problems facing the country and the limited
resources make it difficult for the country to accord any
priority to wetland conservation. Support from the international
community would therefore be required to enable the country to
take further concrete actions towards the protection and
management of her valuable wetland ecosystems.
                                                                9

1.2.       MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

1.2.1.     MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
1.2.1;1.   Traditional conservation strategies

In the past, various rules and regulations including closed
seasons, sacred days and taboos based on religious beliefs
governed most of Ghana's coastal lagoons. The regulations were
usually associated, with lagoon fetishes and they protected the
lagoon habitat and prevented over-exploitation of the lagoon
resources.    The rules and taboos had no legal backing, but the      .:



beliefs were strong enough to make people respect the traditions.
such traditional beliefs and associated taboos have been shown
to be effective as tools for conservation in areas where they are
still respected.   For example, tabooed species are found to be
most abundant in areas where their collection is forbidden:
Sa~umooften holds the entire popUlation o~ black herons recorded       ,
along the Ghana coast; and the mollusc Tympanotonus fuscatus           :
occurred at densities of 800-4000 times higher in areas where the
species is tabooed and collection was forbidden than in areas
where it was heavily exploited for food (Ntiamoa-Baidu,1991).
Unfortunately, as a result of christianity, western influence and
education, and the immigration of people from other ethnic groups
who may neither believe nor respect local fetishes and taboos,
these traditions and taboos are no longer respecteQ. This has
resulted in the undermining of the effectiveness of the
traditional strategies as conservation tools to such an extent
that    the system can no longer be relied upon for the
conservation of Ghana's coastal wetlands.

1.2.1.2.   Protection under the Ramsar concept
The wildlife protected area system in Ghana has, hitherto
followed the traditional "non-use tl approach for the conservation
of these areas.     All the coastal wetland sites have human
settlements and are heavily used by the local communities. The
traditional protected area concept of "non-use" approach will
therefore be inappropriate and unacceptable.                         I"


 The   Ramsar    convention   advocates   the    designation   of
 internationally important wetlands as Ramsar sites and wise-use
"Of such wetlands.   The Ramsar concept has the advantage over
 traditional protected areas (e.g. National Parks, Game reserves
                                                                      
'etc.) in that it adopts a multiple-use approach to management of      I


 listed wetlands. This means that compatible forms of development
                                                                     . ',I
 ~nd human activities are not precluded on the site.

                                                                     ,'
                                                                               l
    Ramsar category of protected area is therefore considered to     1[
   the most appropriate for the coastal wetlands and it is
         ed that all the sites along the Ghana coast which                 :L
   lify as internationally important wetlands         should be            :,
    blished as Ramsar sites. This will facilitate the effective
                                                                           ,
                                                                            i
                                                                           1,
                                                                10

protection and management of the sites and the coordination of
all activities affecting the sites, to ensure the maintenance of
the value of the wetlands for both the wildlife and the local
communities.
The sites which should be designated and protected as Ramsar
sites are listed below in order of priority.

      (i)       Songor (Songaw/Songhor) Lagoon
      (ii)      Keta Lagoon
      (iii)     Sakumo Lagoon (Sakumo II)
      (iv)      Densu delta (Panbros Salt Pans/Sakumo I)
      (v)       Korle Lagoon
      (vi)      Huni Lagoon
      (vii)     Amanzuri wetlands '(comprising Esiama Beach i.e.
                the beach between the Rivers Ankobra and Amanzuri,
                and including the flood plains of the two rivers)

      (viii)    Elmina Salt Pans.
                                       \
t t should be emphasised that the eight sites listed above cannot
be treated as separate entities.     There is ample evidence of
movement of shorebirds between the sites: birds ringed at Esiama
have been sighted at Korle and increases in bird numbers are
observed at Songor when Keta Lagoon is flooded. Protection of
just one or two sites would therefore not ensure continuous
survival of shorebirds in the country, and it is essential that
all the key sites are given adequate protection.

In actual fact, the Songor site, together with the Keta Lagoon
complex, form one ecological unit: the Volta delta, and it should
be treated as such.    Protection of the two sites' would also
afford protection for one of t~e most important marine turtle
nesting sites (the Ada-Srogboe beach) and the main stand of
mangrove vegetation in the country.
 This project proposes the establishment of the top six sites as
 Ramsar sites in the first instance, ie. Songor, Keta, Sakuma,
 Densu delta, Korle and Huni. Thereafter, the remaining two sites
 should be designated as and when resources become available. The
 six sites together support 84% of the estimated total seashore
 bird populations on .the Ghana coast.      60% of the total is
,accounted for by the populations at the Songor-Ada-Keta complex
,alone.

Draft management plans Were prepared by the SSBP-G during an
international training course in site management for Sakumo,
Densu delta and Huni (SSBP-G, 1987). These plans however focused
on bird conservation.   The present proposals incorporates some
   the recommendations in the SSBP-G draft management plans, but
 OCUses more on the integration of local people's needs with
, ldlife conservation. There are indications that Korle is being
     idered under the World Bank Urban II Project and management
    that site would be incorporated in the Accra Coastal Zone
      ement Plan.
                                                               12

The procedure for designation would involve surveying, pillaring
and detailed boundary descriptions.     The survey work may be
undertaken by the Survey Department. Private Surveyors have the
advantage of rapid completion of the work, but the Survey
Department has the merit of familiarity with demarcation and
description of reserved areas and other government lands.

Once the boundary description is provided, the necessary
legislation designating the site must be passed. The Department
of Game and wildlife has the responsibility of preparing the
legal documents covering protected areas (with the help of the
Attorney General's Department). These would then be submitted
to the PNDC, through the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources,
for final approval and gazetting of the site.    For the purpose
of informing the Ramsar secretariat, based in switzerland, a
letter from the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources together
with site descriptions, maps and a statement indicating criteria
for selection would be reqU\red.                                     \

1.2.3.2.   conservation Education and public Awareness Programmes
A large part of the current environmental degradation and the
conservation problems facing the country result from people's
ignorance of the adverse effects of their actions on the
environment. It is therefore most important that the communities
in the coastal wetlands project areas are made fully aware of the
project's aims and objectives.      It is recommended that the
project's plan of activities incorporates a specific component
for conservation education and public awareness programmes.

Provision should be made for the training of a conservation
education officer who will operate from a central office and
cover all the project sites. His job would include sensitization
of the local communities to the conservation needs in each
district and mobilization of the people for participation and
involvement in conservation projects.   He would also encourage
and promote the formation of community and school wildlife clubs
within the project districts; promote village environmental
committees and organise appropriate training seminars for the
members. A well defined conservation education and public
aWareness programme should be drawn up for the coastal areas and
appropriate supporting education materials should be produced and
widely distributed.

 The SSBP-G already runs a very well organised conservation
 education program in schools and communities along the coast.
 The wildlife Clubs of Ghana (WCG), which was introduced by the
 SSBP-G in 1987 to promote conservation interest and knowledge
 among the Ghanaian youth, is now well established with 102 clubs
 as at now in first and second cycle schools.       The WCG has a
 magazine (Nko, the parrots) which is produced mainly for their
 members, but circulated to all second cycle schools and libraries
. in the country. Funds should be made available under the project
 to the WCG to enable them expand their activities to other parts
   f the country, and increase circulation of the magazine.
                                                               13

1.2.3.3     sanitation along the coast

A major problem associated with the entire Ghana coast is
pollution from human and domestic waste.     Most of the coastal
communities use the shore as toilets, and heaps of rubbish are
a common site everywhere.    The situation poses really serious
health hazard, and requires urgent attention. It is recommended
that in addition to the specific actions advocated for individual
sites, a major nation-wide campaign. on keeping the Ghana coast
clean should be mounted.


1.2.4.      RESEARCH AND MONITORING
A strong scientific data base would be required for the effective
management of the coastal wetlands.      Details of research and
monitoring needs are given for each site. Some basic studies are
however relevant to all the selected sites and the entire coastal
zone, and these are,listed below.                           \

     (i) Hydrological and limnological data. There is an urgent
     need to institute appropriate mechanisms for the routine
     monitoring of water quality as well as coastal wetland
     characteristics and functions.

     (ii)   Detailed inventory of the flora and fauna of the
     coastal wetlands.   The importance of these wetlands has,
     hitherto, been assessed on their ornithological values,
     simply because data are not available on other phyla.    It
     may well be that these wetlands are even more important, in
     terms of biodiversity, for their plant and invertebrate
     communities.

     (iii)   Determination of the status and distribution of
     marine turtles on the Ghana coast. This should provide the
     requisite data for the formulation of a marine turtle
     conservation action plan.

     (iv)  Monitoring of the spatial, temporal distribution and
     abun~ance of key wetland indicator species (eg. waterfowl,
     fish, invertebrates).

     (v)   Assessment of the fisheries potential of the coastal
     lagoons with the aim of encouraging aquaculture development
     in the lagoons.

     (vi)   Evaluation of the contribution of coastal wetland
     resources in the socio-economic life of the coastal
     communities.

     (vii)    Evaluation of the effectiveness of existing
     traditional beliefs and taboos associated with coastal
     lagoons as conservation tools, with the aim of encouraging,
     promoting and enforcing those beliefs which are found to be
     effective.
                                                                           14

A system should be evolved to ensure that data collected on key
indicator species are readily available to the relevant agencies
for the formulation and implementation of policies affecting the
coastal wetlands.   The establishment of a national data base
(currently under discussion) should greatly facilitate data
accessibly.
There will also be aneed to develop a National Wetlands
Conservation Strategy.    The strategy should review existing
data on wetlands, identify gaps in knowledge, define priority
actions required and ensure that activities within the wetlands
are coordinated. The terms of reference for the preparation of
the strategy will have to be clearly defined.


1. 3.            INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

1.3.1.           EXPE~T   TECHNICAL COMMITTEE
                                                                  \
The activities and problems associated with the coastal wetlands
ecosystem cuts across several agencies and institutions.
Effective management of the wetlands would therefore require a
multi-sectoral administrative mechanism. It is recommended that
a National Coastal Wetlands Expert Committee be established to
advise on policy matters and developments likely to affect the
proposed Ramsar sites. The committee will comprise directors of
all the institutions whose operations affect the coastal
wetlands, relevant traditional heads and independent experts
including experts from reI levant NGOs.

The list below gives the proposed composition of the committee.

        (i) .         The PNDC Secretary (or his representative),
                      Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources

        (ii) .        The PNDC Secretary (or his             representative),
                      Ministry of local government

        (iii).        The Chief Game and Wildlife Officer
        (iv)         The Chief Conservator of Forests
        (v)          The Executive Director, EPC

        (vi) .        The Director, Town and Country Planning

        (vii) .       The Executive Director, Minerals Commission

        (viii).       The Director, Fisheries Research Institute.

        (ix) .        The Director, Institute of Aquatic Biology

        (x) .         The Project Officer,      Save   the    Seashore   Birds
                      Project.
                                                                 15

     (xi) .       A representative of the National House of Chiefs
                  (he should be a traditional head from a coastal
                  district)
     (xii) .      The senior Technical Advisor, coastal wetlands
                  Conservation programme.

     (xiii).      Independent experts may be co-opted    unto   the
                  committee as and when necessary.

The Committee should be chaired by the PNDC member responsible
for environment and appropriate mechanisms should be established
for the direct communication of . deliberations of the committee
to the government for policy decisions.     such decisions would
then be transmitted through the secretariat (see 1.3.2 below)to
the relevant agencies for implementation.

1.3.2.        SECRETARIAT

The ErC would establish a Secretariat to pvpvide administrative
support for the committee and co-ordinate the activities within
the different Ramsar sites.


1.3.3.        LEAD AGENCY

The Department of Game and Wildlife(GW) should be the lead agency
for the Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme. The Department
is the official Ghana government agency responsible for all
wildlife conservation issues and for management of wildlife
conservation areas.   Moreover, the Department is the official
implementing agency for the Ramsar convention, under which
coastal protected areas are to be constituted.


1.3.4.        STAFF

 The GW is currently very under-staffed, and would not be in a
 position to release staff for the project. The implementation
 of the project would therefore be greatly hampered if additional
 staff are not recruited. It is recommended that the government
 approves the requisite increases in staff establishment, and
 ensures the appointment, training and retention of such
 personnel. As possible, efforts should be made to employ local
 people to manage the sites in their own areas. The use of local
 groups to assist in the management of the sites should also be
 encouraged.   For effective implementation of the programme, it
톓s recommended that one Principal Game Warden is appointed as a
 Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme Coordinator, who would
 be based at the head office and would coordinate the coastal
 wetland management projects.     He/she would be supported by a
 conservation education officer and site management staff,
 comprising, a game warden, appropriate technical officers and
 community w ildlife Officers; and would work under the supervision
 of a Senior Technical Advisor.
                                                                 16

 The Senior Technical Advisor should have proven knowledge of
 Ghana's coastal wetland ecosystems and the conservation needs of
 these areas.   He/she would be contracted to provide technical
 advice and supervise the administration of the project to ensure
 that resources provided are efficiently used for the successful
 implementation of the programme.

 1.3.5.     ASSOCIATED AGENCIES

'It should be emphasised that the successful management of the
 coastal wetlands would require a multi-disciplinary approach.
 The Department of Game and Wildlife should therefore seek the
 expertise and involvement of relevant organisations for the
 execution of programmes.    The departments/ institutions whose
 activities and policies affect the sites, and whose involvement
 should   be  sought   are  listed under    the   mechanism  for
 implementation for each site.

  \
 1.3.6.     LOCAL PARTICIPATION           \
  Another crucial factor for the success of the coastal wetland
  conservation programme is the support and involvement of the
  communities who live in the coastal zone. These are the people
  whose life styles are interlinked with the coastal wetlands and
  whose activities directly affect the wetland ecosystem.
  Protection of the wetlands should therefore be "for" the people
  and not "against" them.    Every effort should be made to secure
 'the people's participation and involvement; and to integrate
  their needs with the management processes.        Apart . from the
  general    community,   groups   whose  involvement   should    be
  specifically sought include the traditional administrators
, (Chiefs, elders etc.), the town development committees and local
  ,political groups such as the District Assemblies, the Committees
   for the Defence of the Revolution (CDRs) and the 31st December
  Women's Movement.

            MANAGEMENT COMMXTTEE

 A site management committee is proposed for each site.    The
 committee will comprise the senior Technical Advisor (as
 Chairman), a Representative of the EPC (as Secretary), the
 Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme Coordinator, the Game
   rden in charge of the site and Representatives of the
 appropriate institutions.   Details of the composition of the
            committee are provided for each site.

            ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE

      diagram below shows the proposed organisational structure for
        implementation of the coastal wetlands conservation
                                                                                                             17

PRm>osED ORGANISATIONAL STRUClURE


                              NATIONAL COASTAL WETLANDS EXPERT COMMITTEE



                                                                                       WETLANDS SECRETARIAT (EPC)


                                    Chief Game and   ~ildlife   Officer


                                                                                         Senior Technical Advisor


                                        Principal Game ~arden
                                          (CWCP Coordinator)

                                                                                           Site Management
                                                                                           COIIIIIittees
                                                                                           (Representatives of
                                                                                           relevant insUtutions
                                                                                           and local organs)




                Game ~arden     Game ~arden      Game Varden          Game    ~arden       Cons.Ed.
                Songor          Sakuno           Densu delta          Ml#\i                Officer



Technical       Technical       Technical        Technical            Technical            Cons. Ed.
assistants!     assistantsl     assistants!      assistants!          assistants!          assistants
COImU"Itty      COImU"Ifty      COImU"Ii ty      COImU"Iity           COIIIIIl#\ Ity
wildlIfe        wildlife        wi ldl Ife       wildlife             wi ldl He
                assIstants      assistants       assistants           assistants
                              -

                       18 





     SECTION 2 


SONGOR RAMSAR SITE 

                                                                 19
                          2.   SONGOR RAMSAR SITE


             INTRODUCTION

.1. 1 .      SITUATION
    r is a brackish water lagoon situated to the west of the
 lta estuary, Lat. 5 49'Ni Lopg 0 28'E (Fig.l).    The water
    covers an area of c.115 km . It extends c. 20 km along the
      and c~8 km inland behind a narrow sand dune. The lagoon
    be approached from the east through Ada Foah, Pute and
       , or from the north through Koluedor and Bonikope, or
          west through Sege, Anyaman and Lolonya.   The Songor
        and surrounding floodplain provide extensive shallow
       mud-flats and islands suitable for feeding and roosting
  sh~re birds. This site, together with Keta rank as the most
       nt area for shorebirds in coastal Ghana.


              GEOMORPHOLOGY\
        lies in a lagoonal depression comprJ.sJ.ng geologically
       materials of unconsolidated sands, clays and gravels.
 'ical of the closed lagoon systems of the West African
    line, the depression has been formed by a beach bar built
  the longshore drifting processes.     Current geomorphological
~~,~~eses include cut-and-fill erosion in the beach material.
      n rates of up to 1.5 metres per annum have been suggested
         ring in the west and east of the lagoon along the coast
    ampram and Ada respectively (Agyepong, 1976).


              CLIMATE
     Songor lagoon lies in the eastern section of the Accra
         . The distinguishing characteristic of the plains is the
        s of the climate.      The data in appendix 3 shows the
        ic characteristics for Ada which is c.13 km east of the
           complex.   The average mean daily minimum temperatures
        between 23캜 and 26 캜. while the maximum ranges between
          and 32캜.     The coldest months are July, August and
                Relative hunidity is highest in the mornings {87
        and decreases in the afternoon (65-78%).       The annual
       all is less than 850 mm., occurring in two peaks, March to
     , and September to October.     December and January are the
    , t months, the prevailing winds during this period are the
     , laden northeasterlies.


              HYDROLOGY
          main streams drain directly into the songor in the north.
      f these, the Sege and the Zano are small streams that take
      ,sources from a few kilometres across the Sege-Kase road.
      have unrestricted flow into the lagoon even though small
                                                               20

dams have been constructed for water supply ego on the Zano at
Kpotweme village. The lagoon itself has no direct access to the
sea. The Totokpe and Pute section of the lagoon is tidal with
exchange of water between the lagoon and the sea occuur ing
through seepage through the sand dunes.


2.1.5.    HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND LAND TENURE

 settlements are concentrated along the coast, particularly in the
 west and east; and around the landward outer margins of the
'lagoon.'    The principal villages are indicated in figure 7.
 Population data for the settlements within the proposed Ramsar
 site are given in appendix 4.     The villages are connected by
 paths,. tracks and roads. Access from the east, is through Ada.
 Communication and commercial orientation are towards Ada in the
 east and Ningo and Prampram in the west. The northern villages
 are oriented towards Kase and Sege.

The Songor lago~n area is traditionally the home of\the Ningo
people in the west and the Ada people in the east. These groups
belong to the larger grpup of the Oangbes who migrated from the
east in the past.   Land is owned by kinship groups or families
and is administered by the elders of the group. Traditionally,
use rights of members of the group are permanent, where, for
example, land once farmed by a member of the family cannot be
taken away from him without his permission.   As in other parts
of the country however, strangers may be given land for renting
or for purchase. Rights of way, fishing, hunting, grazing, water
collection, fuelwood collection, sand and gravel collection are
generally unqualified, ie., require no permission for stranger
or indigene except in a few cases or in cases of commercial
collection. Rights of salt collection are qualified.


2.1.6.     LAND USE

Land use in the Songor area includes farming, animal rearing,
 fishing, salt collection, recreation, settlement and associated
constructions such as roads.     Farming is widespread but varies
 in intensity.    In some areas cropping of cassava, maize and
 vegetables (particularly okro, pepper and tomatoes) are possible
on elevated land where the rooting zone is above the saline water
 table.   cuI tivation is particularly intense west of Ada and
 between Goi and Anyaman.    The mud-flats and the saline marshes
,in the east are not extensively cultivated.      Because of the
 scarcity of arable      land the same plots are cultivated
 continuously with heavy use of fertilizer.

Small scale free range livestock production is widespread in all
the villages. The common animals are 'chicken, goats, pigs, ducks
and sheep.    Cattle are grazed extensively on the grasslands
particularly in the north.

Fishing is undertaken in both the lagoon and the sea, the latter
being a major commercial activity. Marine fishermen interviewed
                                                                 21

 claimed they made a net profit of C 600 - C 1000 man- 1 day-1.
 Lagoon fishing is particularly important to older people who
 cannot go out to sea. Fishing in the lagoon is also resorted to
 when the sea is too rough for the canoes to go out to sea. The
 main species caught were tilapia and lagoon crabs. . The local
 fishermen expressed concern over the drastic decline in lagoon
 fish stocks. Fish is available in the lagoon only during the wet
 season; in the dry season the lagoon becomes hyper-saline,
 causing the death of many fish.
 Fuelwood for smoking fish in the coastal villages is obtained
 from the mangroves and also the scrubland in the north-west,
 particularly around Anyaman.
 Salt winning is a major commercial activity in villages around
 the lagoon and majority of the people derive their livelihood
 from salt collection. Ownership of the lagoon and salt winning
 rights have in the past, been a source of serious conflict
 between the ,local people and external private salt mining
 companies.   c~rrently there are seven salt mining qooperatives
 operating in the area.    The biggest of these, th~ Ada-Songor
 cooperative has 1000 registered members. Four private companies
 own concessions in the area, but only one I Vacuum Salt Industr ies
 was operational.

 Traditional methods are used for the salt production. In the dry
 season, most parts of the lagoon dry up, depositing large
 quantities of salt, which is then scraped up by the people. The
 executive members of the Ada-Songor Cooperative interviewed
 claimed that each person could collect 10 bags (75 kg bag) per
 day, on average. These were sold for Cedis 2,400 per bag in the
 wet season and C 800 - C 1500 in the dry season. The buyers were
 taxed C 100 on each bag which was shared between the central
 government and the district council.    Based on a 90 day season
톙f peak salt production (ie. assuming the salt is collected only
 during the dry season) even the minimum price of C 800 per bag
  provides an income of C 720,000 per annum for each salt
 collector.   This is equivalent to salaries wi thin the "high
 income bracket" in government employment.

 The town of Ada attracts moderate numbers of tourists and has a
 number of chalets and guest houses to cater for visitors. Beach
 recreation is, perhaps, the main tourist attraction.

           CULTURAL ASPECTS

. Part of the lagoon (reported to be around the Lufenya section of
  'the lagoon) is believed to be the abode of the lagoon god, Yomo.
   is area (c. 400 m2 ) is considered sacred, and no activity
; 'including fishing and salt collection is permitted in the area.
        older generation believe that the salt in the lagoon is
   provided by the lagoon god. The fetish priest performs certain
  . ites and offers sacrifices every year at the beginning of the
         season before the people are allowed to start salt
     llection.
                                                                22
2.1.8.     THREATS AND CONFLICTS.

The present traditional methods of salt production appears to be
compatible with the conservation of the wetland ecosystem,
although the level of productivity is low. Some improvement in
technology could increase productivity and improve the quality
of life for the lo.cal communities without necessarily destroying
the ecological integrity of the wetland.

  A feasibility study undertaken for the Minerals commission
  advocates the development of a large scale industrial salt
  complex, with estimated production level of 1.2 million tons
, yr-.   The project proposes construction of pans at the west,
  east and northern .edges of the lagoon and sea water inlets at
  Lolonya and Totokpe. Sea water would then be pumped into the
  lagoon and the entire lagoon would be used as concentration
  ponds.

Such scale of' -:operations would certainly bring considerable
income to the local ~ommunities and the country as a whole\ but
would also undoubtedly, cause major changes in the ecological
integrity of the lagoon and the social/traditional structure of
the area. In view of the international ecological importance of
Songor, it is imperative this activity and any other development
activities in the area must be preceded by detailed environmental
impact assessment.


 2.2.      FLORA AND FAUNA

 2.2.1.    VEGETATION

The vegetation of the Songor wetland may be classified. into five
main types:

   (i)    saline marshes in the mud and salt flats, depicted by
'. Sesuvium    portulacastrum,  Sporobolus   virgl.nl.cus, Paspalum
 'vaginatum, Ipomoea pescaprae ; Sesbania sesban and Opuntia
   species.    Many Hyphaene thebaica (Dum Palm, a branching palm)
   occur along the shore, but probably due to salt spray or other
       turbance the palms never developed into big trees.

 ;(ii) waterlogged grassland dominated by Vetiveria fulvibarbis,
'Andropogon gayanus, Brachiaria yalcifera, Imperata cylindrica
  (Lalang grass), Sporobolus pyramidalis, Fimbristylis pilosa, with
 a few dicots like cassia mimosoides and Polygala arenaria.
   (iii) scattered thickets of shrubs, climbers and small trees on
. higher ground. The thicket population being composed pr incipally
    f   Allophylus   africanus,   Flacourtia   indica,   Griffonia
  .implicifolia,  Grewia    carpinifolia,  G.  mollis,    Capparis
  grythrocarpos, Securinega virosa, Uvaria globosa, U. chamae,
 .                  and Zanthoxylum xanthoxyloides with emergent
         of Elaeophorbia drupifera and Diospyros mespiliformis and
   sUcculent-leaved herbs Sansevieria liberica (African Bowstring
       ) and Aloe buettneri.
                                                                23

(iv)   riverain woodland along the streams where Baphia nitida
Camwood, Lonchocarpus cyanescens (west African or Yoruba Indigo) ,
pialium guineense (Velvet Tamarind) and Millettia thonningii are
found; and
(v) low mangroves along the margins of the lagoon characterised
by Avicinnia africana. The plants growing in or around the water
are Cyperus articulatus (sometimes cultivated for matting and for
the aromatic rhizomes), Borreria species, Lemna purpusilla,
Nymphaea lotus, N. micrantha (both called water Lily), Ludwigia
species, Ipomoea aguatica and Abutilon mauritianum.

The common species recorded in a transect survey are'given in
Appendix 5). On the whole, there has been considerabe damage to
the vegetation, resulting in vast areas of depleted farmlands,
abandoned farms, wastelands and eroded terrain.   Generally one
can see as far as the horizon in all directions. only isolated
trees'- 'like Borassus aethiopum '(Fan Palm), Mangifera indica
 (Mango), Ceiba pentandra (Silk cotton Tree) and Adansonia
digitata (Baobab) were seen. The causes of this degradation may
be attributed to the traditional slash and burn farmt,ng method,
shifting cult1vation anq cutting for fuelwood ana charcoal
production.    Any attempt to save the vegetation from further
degradation has to be found in improved systems and methods of
landuse.


           FAUNA

      on animal life in Songor is available only for birds. The
,Songor wetland supports spectacular concentrations of seashore
 birds, comprising terns, waders, herons and ducks.      There is
,evidence that the area serves as a stop-over point and has a high
 rate of shorebird population turn over. Thus the estimated bird
 population of 110,000 (Table 1) is undoubtedly an underestimate
 of the importance of the site.

The wetland supports internationally important populations of
       species of waders: spotted redshank, greenshank, ringed
 lover, curlew sandpiper, little stint, avocet and black-tailed
    it (Table 2). The site has the highest total tern count on
     Ghana coast and supports nationally important populations
 Over 10% of the total coastal count) of at least 32 species of
  ter birds.     Table 3 presents the peak counts and national
Lmrln~'Tance of the most abundant seashore bird species recorded
   Songor. A complete list of the species recorded on the site
   provided in appendix 1.

     80% of the total number of species recorded in Songor are
  laearctic migrants. Migrant birds begin to arrive on the site
   late August, and their numbers peak in September-November
 Fig. 2). The birds start to leave the area at the onset of the
    season, when large sections of the lagoon dry up and by
  nuary, the bird population is less than 5% of the autumn peak.
    40000
                                                         -     WADERS
                                                         -t-   TERNS


    30000
B
I
R
o
C
o   20000
U
N
T
S
                                                   --
    10000   r                                                            .
            ,
            ,
                                        "
                                        >
                                                                         I
                                                                         i


                       ,<
                --~----~--~--~!-
                                  -:___.r=:;~.
                                     '                         ;.~
                                                                         I
                  Sep Oct   Nov   Dec       Jan   Feb   Mar Apr   May   Jun
                                                                         ,
                     90                                    91            I
                                   MONTH
                                                                              N
                                                                              Ul
                                                                26 


2.3   PUBLXC CONSULTATXON
The following people were consulted:
      (i). The District Secretary and CDR Organizer, Ada

      (ii). Executives of the Ada-songor Co-operative society,
      Bonikope and Head-teacher, Agbedrafor JSS.

      (iii). Chief Fisherman, CDR Chairman and people at Totokpoe
      village


2.3.1      DXSTRICT SECRETARY AND CDR ORGANIZER, ADA.

According to them since birds have little value for the people,
their protection would not affect local commercial activities.
They expressed the desire for the people to become part of the
the wetland protection programme.   Their involvement, however,
must be compensated for by some f~rm of development of the area,
especially the fishing and farming industries.   They suggested
                                                                       \
making available to the people; fishing nets, outboard motors,
outboard motor repair shop, irrigation facilities etc.

The District Secretary suggested that one way of ensuring the
protection of the lagoon and the coastal ecosystem was to
transform the place into tourist centre. He confirmed that the
traditional rulers, the various administrative units and Town
pevelopment committee would be willing to organise the people to
provide labour and assist in any conservation projects initiated
in the area.

 The CDR organizer pointed out that crabs were becoming scarce in
 the area and there was the need to protect them.     He suggested
 that the mangrove vegetation which served as habitat for the
 crabs and other animals should be protected.         The District
 Secretary    expressed   the   willingness   of    the   District
 Administration to help in protecting the mangrove vegetation.
'The District Secretary also suggested the need for preserving the
 lagoon area where the Ada people first settled, because of its
 historical significance.     He suggested that the traditional
텰ouncil could come out with by-laws to ensure the preservation
 of the area.


2.3.2      ADA-SONGOR CO-OPERATIVE SALT MINERS SOCIETY EXECUTIVES 

           AND HEADTEACHER FOR AGBEDRAFOR JSS 


They felt strongly that seashore birds should be protected.   They 

assigned the following reasons: 


      (a)  They serve as indicator for fishermen to locate fish
      in the lagoon/sea.

      (b) If such birds are disturbed there is the likelihood that
      they would move to another area and the people would lose
                                                                 27

     the benefit derived from them.       Also, the birds make the
     area interesting.

     (c) They stated that they could contribute their quota for
     the protection of the birds by educating the people.
They expressed the need for the protection of the lagoon, they
advocated for the transformation of part of the lagoon into
modern fish ponds so that during the rainy season when it is not
possible to win salt, fishing can be done profitably. Fish ponds
can be controlled and any fishing in them can also be regulated.

The main needs expressed by the local people were as follows:

      1.   water:  Potable water is a scarce resource in the area.
           In view of this the use of water for washing, drinking
           and cooking is very restricted.    A bucket of potable
           water costs sixty cedis (C 60.00).          sinking of
           wells/boreholes would not work because of high
           concentration of salt in the soil.

      2.
              \
           schools:
                         ..                            \.
                     Bonlkope vlliage where the Salt Cooperatlve
           was based has no school.     Their children walk to
           Agbedrafor village 1.4 kilometres away to attend
           school.

      3.   sanitation:   The village had no public place of
           convenience. There is an urgent need for KVIP toilets
           to improve environmental health in the area.

      4.   communication:  Roads in the area are not all-weather
           motorable. This affects the easy movement of people,
           salt, foodstuff etc. in the area.

      5.   Farming inputs:  Farming, which is next to salt-mining
           in commercial importance, is on the decline. The soil
           has lost its fertility, and there is the need to apply
           fertilizer extensively.      They advocated for the
           provision of tractors in the area to aid farming. They
           also suggested the formation of a Farmers Cooperative
           society, independent of the Ada Songor cooperative Salt
           Miners society, to help address farming issues .

  3.3.    THE CHIEF FISHERMAN,     CDR     CHAIRMAN   AND   FISHING
           COMMUNITY, TOTOKPOE
    people used to trap and kill birds for 톐ood unt'il their
       ion was drawn to the value of seashore birds by the Save
    Seashore Birds Project's education team.     Through  a town
  ier, the inhabitants of the village had been informed to
  frain from any act which would disturb the birds. They claimed
     had benefited from film shows which educated them on the
     for bird protection. They have instituted local sanctions
 .ainst people who would contravene the orders to keep off the
 lrds.
                                                               28

According to them they would welcome any by-laws which would
restrict human activities in the lagoon to ensure its protection.
They also suggested the need to regulate the use of fishing nets
in the lagoon and in the sea. They expressed concern about the
small mesh sizes of nets currently used. The people complained
about persistent sea erosion which threatens their settlement.
They also complained of difficulties in obtaining the necessary
inputs for fishing and lack of fish storage facilities.      They
made a request for training in fishing methodology so as to
increase their catch.




     \                                      \
                                                                  29

2.4          MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

2.4.1        OBJECTIVES

The primary aim for the establishment of the Songor Ramsar site
is bird protection.   It should, however, be emphasised that in
the Songor situation where the density of human settlements is
so high, any conservation programme advocated will not receive
the support of the people and will not succeed unless it
addresses the needs of the local communities.     The management
strategy for Songor will therefore aim at promoting sustainable
development in the area and optimising exploitation of wetland
resources, while maintaining the ecological value of the wetland.
Specific objectives for management of the site are as follows:

        (i) To maintain and enhance the value of the Songor lagoon
        and its environs as bird.habitat.

        (ii)     To integrate the needs of local communities with
        wilt\llife management and ensure satisfact\ory coexistence.
        To this end, efforts will be concentrated on exploring and
        developing viable options for the maximization of salt
        production from the, lagoon while at the same time
        maintaining the ecological integrity of the wetland.

        (iii) To maintain and promote local traditions and cultures
        associated with the lagoon.

        (iv) To develop and increase the fisheries potential of the
        lagoon.

        (v) To promote general conservation awareness and encourage
        local participation in the conservation of natural resources
        in the Ada district.

        (vi) To provide appropriate facilities for the development
        of a wetland research programme in Ghana and encourage
        participation of scientists and students in Ghanaian
        research institutions and universities.


             MANAGEMENT ACTIONS

      order to achieve the above objectives, the following specific
      ions should be undertaken:

        (i). Establishment and protection of the Songor wetland as
        a Ramsar site and provision of appropriate infrastructure
        and resources for the management of the site.

        (ii). Establishment of a zonation scheme which will ensure
        adequate protection for the wildlife and also cater for the
        needs of the local people.

        (iii). Institution of appropriate habitat enhancement and
        faunal management programmes.
                                                                 30

     (iv). Assessment of    the salt production capability of the
     lagoon and the role     of salt mining in the socio-economic
     life of the local       people, with the aim of improving
     productivity without    destroying the ecological value of the
     Songor wetland.
     (v). Assessment of the fishery potential of the Songor
     lagoon and provision of requisite inputs to improve the
     lagoon fisheries.

     (vi). Development of appropriate conservation education
     programme for the Ada district.

     (vii). Development of facilities and promotion of controlled
     wildlife based tourism.


               ,                                     ,

     (viii). Establishment of a field research station and
     development of a coordinated wetland research programme.
           .



          Site designation

           designation of the Songor Ramsar site should be pre
    isite to any further development of the site. The proposed
site is, fortunately, clearly delineated by the existing road
network (Fig. 7). The western boundary is formed by the road from
Sege to Anyaman. The eastern boundary is delineated by the Kase
to Big Ada road, then along the edge of the river Volta to its
        The Sege to Kase road forms the northern boundary; while
     southern boundary is the shoreline from the village of
   laban~a to the Volta mouth.   The proposed site covers
 .310 km, all of which falls within the jurisdiction of the
       East (Ada) District.

   ndary descriptions should be prepared for the         legal
   ablishment of the site as a Ramsar site. The site should be
 learly sign posted all along the roads forming the boundaries.

          zonation
     idering the high human interest in the Songor wetland,
  fective management of the area would require the adoption of
   zonation scheme which allows human usage and sustainable
      opment of parts of the wetland, while providing protection
   the sections which are important for wildlife. Four zones are
   isaged (Fig.B):

     (i) Core area (zone A)
     This comprises the southern sections of the open lagoon and
     islands between the villages of Lolonya, Kpotisekope,
     Anyonukope and Pute, covering c.37 kmz.       This area is
     currently the most important feeding and roosting sites for
     sea - and shorebirds. settlements within this area are few
     and human disturbance, mainly fishing and use of the sand
     flats for drying fish, is currently minimal and restricted
                                                            31

 to only a small proportion of the area. There is therefore
 no real need to restrict access during the peak season for
 migrant birds (August to December).    There would however,
 be a need for restrictions on access during the breeding
 season of resident species, May to mid July. Species like
 little terns, pratincoles and black-winged stilts nest among
 the Sesuvium beds: and their nests and eggs could easily be
 destroyed by people walking around.     Future developments
 including new settlements should be prohibited in the core
 area.    Development of housing in the area should be
 restricted to the immediate vicinity of existing villages.
 The area should be demarcated by wooden posts and "keep
 off" notices should be put up during the breeding season.

   (ii) Traditional Management area (ref. Fig. 8)
   This comprises the section of the lagoon near Lufenya
   believed to be the abode of the local god.       The area is
   reported to be completely protected.     Entry into the area
   is permitted to only the fetish priest and people associated
   with the lagoon fetish;       and all \ activities including
\  fishing and salt collection are prohibited. This area should
   be maintained as a traditionally protected ar:ea.        The
   younger generation, particularly the educated ones, however;
   had neither the confidence nor the respect for the basic
   belief underlying the protection of the area, ie the belief
   that it is the lagoon god who provides the salt ih the area.
   There would therefore be a need for a sociological study of
   the beliefs and taboos associated with the area and an
   assessment of the effectiveness of these traditions.      If
   necessary, such taboos should be promoted by the provision
   of modern legal backing.    This should be done through the
   enactment of local by-laws.

 (iii) controlled area (Zone B)
 The controlled area includes the northern and north eastern
 sections of the open water and the immediate surrounding
 floodplain.   The marshlands in this area are particularly
 important for herons and gallinules.      The area is also
 considered to be more sensitive than the outer catchment
 in terms of possible adverse effects of industrial
 developments on the wetland ecosystem.        The immediate
 surroundings constitute the areas earmarked for salt pans
 construction under the Minerals Commission Salt Industry
 proposal. Obviously such industrial developments are bound
 to affect the ecological integrity of the Songor wetland and
 detailed environmental impact assessment should be demanded
 before any developments takes place.

 The development of aquaculture and/or culture based
 fisheries in this part of the lagoon should be explored and
 promoted if found feasible.
                                                                32

     The traditional use of the area, including fishing and
     farming jShould be allowed to continue. Use of agrochemicals
     should however be monitored.
      (iv)   Land use management area (Zone C)
     This comprises the outer catchment and includes numerous
     settlements.    It would be impossible to control growth in
      the size and numbers of settlements in the area, and
     management efforts should concentrate on advocating wise
      use of resources. The land use patterns in the area should
      be mapped out and efforts should be made to encourage proper
      land use practices to minimize possible adverse effects of
      such practices on the wetland ecosystem.      Farmers in this
      area rely heavily on chemical fertilizers, but the level of
      usage and impacts are not known. There would be a need to
     .monitor  agro-chemical use in the area and institute
      appropriate controls if necessary.     Environmental impact
      assessment should be demanded for industrial developments
      int~e area.                                 l
     Every effort should be made to improve sanitation in the
     villages within the whole area.


             Habitat management
Core area:
 A detailed hydrological study of the Songor ~etland would be
 required to assess the possibility of manipulating the water
 levels in the lagoon. This is parti.cularly critical during the
 dry season when most of the lagoon dries up leaving small pools
 of hyper-saline water.    An increase in the fresh water inflow
 into the southern sections of the lagoon will greatly benefit
:animal life.   It is reported that Songor was an open lagoon in
 the past and that the lagoon has been cut off as a result of sand
 accretion.   This requires to be investigated since it might
 provide some clues for the hydrological manipulations being
   vocated.   The services of an expert hydrologist should be
     t.
   itional roosting sites should be provided through the creation
   islands within the open lagoon, or provision of floating
     n platforms.

    few coconut trees along the sand ridge which separates the
-~,~~~nfrom the sea and also around the villages are all old
         Provisions should be made for the planting of more
        trees. Mangroves should also be planted to improve the
  nN~~U~ vegetation.


   trolled and land use management area:
   itat manipulation in the rest of the open lagoon will be
  lated to the aquaculture and salt industry requirements.
  vice should be sought from an aquaculture specialist with
  spect to requirements for developing the fisheries potential
 f the lagoon.
                                                                33

The immense salt production potential of the Songor lagoon makes
the proposals for development of a large scale salt industry in
the area very attractive.    There is no doubt at all that this
will provide SUbstantial revenue to the local people and the
central government, but it is also very obvious that the
operation could cause drastic changes in the ecological integrity
of the area. There is therefore an urgent need to commission an
expert study to find ways of increasing salt production in the
area without destroying the ecological value of the wetland.
Exploitation of the mangroves and other trees in the wetland for
fuelwood is a major contributory factor to the degradation of the
wetland habitat.    Farmers in the area should be encouraged to
take up agro-forestry to provide for their fuelwood needs and
reduce pressure on the mangroves.      Management of the Songor
Ramsar site should also actively encourage tree planting to
enhance the wetland habitat. Tree seedlings should be provided
and the communities should be encouraged to participqte in the
tree planting ex'ercise. Schools in the area could be effectively
used for this exercise particularly if competitive basis, with
prizes and commendations for the winners.      The advice of the
Forestry Department and an agroforestry specialist should be
sought on this.

Farming practices in the area currently rely on heavy use of
chemical fertilizers.  In addition to monitoring and regulating
chemical fertilizer usage, farmers should be encouraged to adopt
crop rotation; planting of nitrogen fixing plants like leucaena
Leucaena leucocephala and Pigeon pea, cajanus cajan and the use
of plant waste and animal manure to reduce reliance on chemical
fertilizers.
 settlements:
 Two major problems are apparent in all the communities within the
 Songor Ramsar site: lack of fresh water and poor sanitation.
 People interviewed from villages in the northern parts of the
 site reported severe scarcity of fresh water: a bucket of water
 cost C 60.00.      The possibility of increasing fresh water
,availability in the area should be examined.        It should be
 possible to provide structures for collection and storage of rain
 water, but the advice of a water resources specialist should be
 sought.

 There are no decent facilities for domestic waste disposal in
 most of the villages within the project area. The shore line and
,lagoon banks are used as toilets and faecal material are
 deposited everywhere.     The situation in pute and Totokpoe
 requires urgent attention.    The rich bird life of Songor can
 never be proudly exposed to visitors until the mess in these two
 villages which are adjacent to the most important bird sites is
 Cleared up.      Waste disposal facilities must be provided.
 Provision should be made in the project budget for a garbage
  truck and for the construction of KVIP toilets.

Provision of such facilities (water and sanitation) will improve
the aualitv of life for the local eo Ie and reatl enhance the
                                                               34

image of the project and elicit local support for the project.
The people will thus see concrete benefits from the establishment
of the conservation project.


2.4.2.4    Faunal management

  No special faunal management is envisaged presently. Further
. studies on the use of the wetland by breeding birds will
  determine whether or not there is a need for provision of
  additional nesting sites.

Some tern trapping is undertaken by children in the coastal
villages. The SSBP-G education team 톒as already undertaken some
public education campaigns in the area. This should be continued
to ensure that trapping is stopped completely.

2.4.2.5.   Visitor/education and field research centre

Ada already attJacts some tourists and holiday    maker~  and has
some facilities for tourism. The rich bird life of Songor should
be publicised and bird watching should be promoted as part of the
tourist package for the district.      It is recommended that a
visitor centre should be established on the site.      The centre
should be provided with basic equipment (audio-visual facilities,
binoculars, telescopes, nature books and field guides) to
facilitate bird watching. publicity materials should be produced
and distributed widely. Overnight camping facilities should be
provided.                                               .

      is recommended that a field research station should be
  developed at songor to promote wetland research in Ghana.    The
  centre should have a fully equipped field laboratory, office
  space and accommodation (with toilet and kitchen facilities) for
  10-12   people.    Researchers and students       from  Ghanaian
  universities/research institutions should be encouraged to take
. advantage of the facilities provided.


           RESEARCH AND MONITORING

    or is a complex site and detailed research would be required
 or a much fuller understanding of the wetland ecosystem, and
  so to provide a data base for the formulation of management
  licies and actions.   It is recommended that the under-listed
    line studies should be undertaken.     The results of these
    ies should enable the definition of those aspects which
    ire to be monitored on routine basis; and those which could
   undertaken as long term study projects by researchers and
      ts in the country's research institutions, using the field
    arch facilities to be provided on the site.
                                                                     35

Baseline studies: to be undertaken by local consultants during
the early stages of project implementation.
     (i)   Hydrological studies - water level measurements;
     sediment flows; drainage characteristics of the basin;
     investigation into possibilities of manipulating inflows and
     lagoon water levels.

     (ii)   Limnological studies - basic measurements of water
     characteristics;    aquatic   productivity;   inyertebrate
     abundance and, distribution; salt tolerance and effects of
     salinity changes on species which are important prey items
     for shorebirds.
            ;.;.


     (iii)   Fish stocks and fish production potential of the
     lagoon; evaluation of potential for aquaculture development.

    (iv) Evaluation of salt production in the Songor Lagoon and
    associated '. socio-economic problems, with the a~m of
    improving'cteqhnology     to  increase   production \while
    maintaining the ecological integrity of the wetland.

     (v)   Evaluation of traditional beliefs and conservation
     strategies associated with the.Songor lagoon.

     (vi) Ornithological studies: 

     - complete survey (possibly an aerial survey) of the Songor 

     wetland to provide a more complete picture of the 

     ornithological importance of the site. 


     - Detailed mapping of the use of the wetland by the
     different bird species for roosting, feeding and nesting.

     (vii) Detailed mapping of the vegetation in the wetland to
     provide information on the plant species which could be used
     in the habitat enhancement programme.

Routine monitoring          (to be undertaken by staff on the ground):
     (i) .  water levels and water quality {water level and
     salinity measurements should be undertaken by staff on site,
     water samples can be collected for analysis by the Institute
     of Aquatic Biology.

     (ii)          Basic meteorological data.

     (iii) Human usage of the wetland with particular reference
     to lagoon fisheries (including mollusc collection); salt
     winning and fuelwood exploitation.

     (iv) Regular census of wetland birds and census of breeding
     birds populations during the breeding season.
                                                                 36

Topics for long term institutional and student research:

  Mmultidisciplinary research on the Songor lagoon and Volta delta 

  ecosystem, should be initiated, with the aim of identifying 

  options for development and optimization of productivity of the 

. wetland. This would include aspects such as wetland functions,
  coastal erosion problems, fisheries development (including
  potential for prawn and shrimp culture), aquatic productivity,          .
  socio-economic problems including public health. Some of these          I

  could be undertaken as graduate student projects if the requisite
  support is provided.                                                    I

2.6.        MECHANISM FOR IMPLEMENTATION

2.6.1.      LEAD AGENCY:    Department of Game and wildlife

2.6.2.      ASSOCIATED AGENCIES:

                            TAe Minerals Commission
                                                                      \
                            The Save the Seashore Birds Project
                            Forestry Department
                            Institute of Aquatic Biology
                            Fisheries Research Institute
                            Ghana Water and Sewerage corporation
                            Ministry of Health
2.6.3.      LOCAL PARTICIPATION:

It is obvious from the management actions being advocated that        

the success of the project will depend on the involvement of the      

local people.   The involvement of the District Assembly, the         

Chiefs, the fishing communities, and the local political groups       

should be sought.   Local people should be employed as wildlife       

assistants as far as possible. The involvement and cooperation        

of the salt mining cooperatives will also be essential. 
                     .


            STAFF

  e following staff would be required         for   the   effective
  nagement of the Songor Ramsar site:

       Position                Number 

       Game Warden                1

       Rangers                    2

       Conservation education 

       assistant                  1

       Drivers                    2

       Labourers (Community 

       wildlife assistants)      10 

                                                                37

2.6.5.     SITE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A management committee with the under-listed composition is
recommended for the Songor Ramsar site. The committee will serve
primarily as a forum for the various groups with interest in the
wetland to corne together to debate and advise on site management
policies and actions.
     Senior Technical Advisor
     Coordinator, Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme
     Game Warden in charge of site
     Representative, SSBP-G.
     Ada District Forestry Officer
     Ada District Fisheries Officer
     Ada District Secretary
     Presiding member, Ada District Assembly
     Representative, Ministry of Health
     Representative, Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
     Representative, Minera~s Commission
     Representative salt mihing cooperatives,
     Representative Fishermen Cooperative.

2.7. SITE MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS

Roads and access: Two roads need to be constructed/repaired: the
road from Ada to Totokpe, so as to improve access from the south,
and the road from Sege to Lolonya.       This road is currently
motorable only during the dry season and the improvement will not
only facilitate access from the west, but also improve
communication between the villages along that road and the other
parts of the country.
  Buildings: The site will require the construction of an office
  block, a visitor centre, a field research centre and staff
  accommodation. Ideally all these should be in the same locality .
. A suitable site within the village pute would be appropriate .
. Three observation posts will be built to facilitate bird watching
  and to act as outposts for field work. In an effort to improve
  sanitation and reduce nutrient loading of the wetland, thirty
  KVIP latrines will be constructed in the settlements within the
  drainage basin.
    pment: Basic equipment and furnishing should be provided for
    office, the visitor centre and the field research centre.
    staff on site would require field gear and some simple items
   monitoring equipment to properly carry out their duties.
        rt:  A four wheel drive pick-up, two motorcycles and a
     with a trailer should be provided for use in the protection
    management work. In addition there would be a need for a 3
      tipper truck to be used as a garbage truck and also to move
    rials in and around the project area.
                                   38 





                              .'




;.;B~~?~l:MUNIRAMSAR   SITE
                                                                   39

                       3.   HUNI RAHSAR SITE


3.1.       INTRODUCTION

3.1.1.     SITUATION

Muni is a shallow saline coastal lagoon situated on the outskirts
of Winneba township, c.67 km from Accra, Lat.5 19'N, Long. 0
40' W (Fig .1). It covers an area of c. 3 km 2 and is fed by the
two rivers Muni and Pratu. The lagoon adjoins the Yenku Forest
Reserve, which together with the adjacent degraded forest lands
forms the traditional hunting grounds of the Efutu people. The
site is mainly important for terns, but a number of waders and
herons also occur in significant numbers.


3.1.2.     GEOMORPHOLOGY

The Muni area is generally a low lying undulating plain.    Two           \
isolated hills are prominent: the Osi Hills to the north east
of the lagoon rising up to 53 m and the Ejisimanku Hills near
Mankwadzi.   The parent rock is composed mainly of greenstone
containing feldspar, lead, magnetite and tin.     The soils are
mainly clays, which are impervious to water and liable to sheet
erosion during periods of seasonal flooding.


3.1.3.     CLIMATE

Temperature, rainfall and relative humidity data were not
available for Winneba.  Data for the nearest station, Apam (c.
15 km west of Winneba) are given in appendix 3. Mean monthly
temperatures range from minimum of 24캜 in July/August to
maximum of 28.9 캽 in March.   Total annual rainfall over a 10
year (1981-1990) period averaged 858.1 mm.


           HYDROLOGY

      drainage basin of Muni is c. 96.5 km 2  The two rOivers wh ich 

  feed the lagoon, Muni and Pratu,o are seasonal. Reports from the 

  local fishermen indicated that the lagoon spills over and the 

.    roundings get flooded about every 10 years, the period of
  flooding coinciding with periods of very heavy rainfall. At such
. imes, the villagers dig a canal to release the excess water into
 the sea to prevent inundation of the houses.       salinity varied
       37 g r at the seaward sections of the lagoon to 64 g 1- 1 in
      northern sections where the lagoon acts as an evaporation pan
  during the dry season. Salinity of the inflows was 2.5 g 1- 1 in
  JUly/August (SSBP-G 1987).
                                                                    40

3.1.5.    HISTORICAL/CULTURAL ASPECTS

According to the Paramount Chief of the Efutu traditional area,
Nana Ayirebi Acquah (IV), the Efutu people originated from
Techiman.    As they journeyed in search of water and fertile
lands, they arrived at the Muni lagoon.    The name "Muni" was
originally "Boni" meaning "it is hard", used to describe the
nature. of the lagoon water.

The Efutu people ,have an annual tradition, the Aboakyir Festival,
celebrated in remembrance of their ancestors and the journey
through the wilderness to settle in the present pla.ce; and in
reverence for the ancestral god uApasekum", who protected them
in wars with other tribes during the journey.      The ceremonies
associated with' the festival involves the live capture of a
bushbuck Tradelaphus scriptus for sacrifice to the god. In the
old days, a-human being had to'be sacrificed to the god before
every war to ensure victory. 'This was later negotiated, and
currently a bushbuck is sacrificed annually.
                     ,     :\      .
On the day of the AboakY1r Fest1val, the two Asafo compan1es
                                                                .        \
(Twafo/Tuafo, No 1 and Dentsifo, No 2) go to the hunting grounds
at dawn to hunt for a bushbuck, which must be captured with bare
hands~ 'The Paramount Chief and his people wait at the palace
grounds.   The first company to bring the bushbuck becomes the
winner.   The animal is sacrificed and the meat is used in
preparing the ceremonial dishes.         This is followed by
celebrations which brings together all the people of the Efutu
traditional area.


3.1.6.    HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND LAND OWNERSHIP

The proposed Muni Ramsar site falls within the administration of
two District Councils: Efutu/Ewutu and Gomoa.    The lagoon area
belongs to the Efutu Traditional Council, headed by the Paramount
Chief, Nana Ayirebi Acquah (IV) who is based in Winneba.
Communities along the coastal sand ridge separating the lagoon
from the sea are migrant fishermen from the Volta Region (mainly
Keta, Woe, Anloga and Anyanui).    There are three main fishing
villages who owe allegiance to the Efutu stool.

,:!-,he lands in the upper drainage basin belong to the Gomoa
Traditional Council. There is currently some dispute between the
          and the Efutu people over ownership of the land, and this
is being handled by a government appointed committee.

-Population census data for the villages within the the proposed
Ramsar site are given in Appendix 4 .


  1.7.   LAND USE

  ntensive commercial fishing is undertaken mainly by the migrant
  ishermen along the shores from Winneba to Mankwadze.         The
, ishermen operate in eight main groups of 30 - 60 men in a group.
                                                               41 


Each group is headed by the net owner.    According to the chief
fisherman, a net owner could earn 100,000 - 150,000 Cedis per day
during the peak fishing season, which is reduced to only 1,000 
5,000 Cedis in the lean season. Subsistence fishing is carried
out on the lagoon. species caught include tilapia Sarotherodon
melanotheron, crabs Callinectes latimanus and molluscs mainly
Tympanotonus fascatus.                                .

Marine fishing is forbidden on Tuesdays in the Winneba area while
Wednesday is prohibited for fishing in the lagoon. These taboos,
based on the belief that the "water gods" fish on those days,
are .examples of the traditional conservation strategies which
regulated fisheries exploitation in the past.

Some amount of tern trapping and wader catching still go on in
the Muni villages.  In August 1987, one fisherman who had been
trapping terns for years had 33 metal rings and 9 colour rings,
which he used as a bracelet and also for hair decoration. This
person promised to stop tern trapping after the SSBP-G team
talked to him about ~ird migration and the value of ringin~.          .
According to the Paramount Chief, there were some proposals for
salt mining in the south eastern section of the lagoon, but this
had been abandoned.                                                       ,



communities within settlements in the upper catchment area are
mainly sUbsistence farmers. The major crops grown are cassava,
maize and vegetables.   Livestock in the area include chicken,
pigs, sheep and goats, and some cattle grazing was observed on
the hill slopes.

Trees in the catchment are exploited by the villagers for
fuelwood, charcoal and building materials. According to the
villagers, this was the main contributory factor to the
degradation of the forests in the area.

The adjoining forest reserve is administered by the Forestry
Department. Part of this has been replanted with exotic species
including Eucalyptus sp. and Chromolaena odorata.    The Efutu
traditional council retains hunting rights in the reserve.

,Hunting rights in the traditional hunting grounds is controlled
by the Asafo companies.    Although this area is protected under
traditional laws, the Paramount Chief reported uncontrolled tree
cutting (mainly for fuelwood and charcoal burning) which has
resulted in habitat degradation. He expressed concern about the
scarcity of bushbucks in the area and the threat this poses to
their traditional festival. There had been some years when the
Asafo groups failed to locate and catch a bushbuck and therefore
they were unable to perform the necessary sacrifices and
celebrations. He and his elders expressed their support for the
 establishment of the area as a protected area.      They believed
 that this would ensure improvement in the forest habitat, with
 SUbsequent increases in wild animal populations, thereby ensuring
 the perpetuation of their Aboakyir festival.
                                                               42

3.2.      FLORA AND FAUNA

3.2.1.    VEGETATION

The Muni area lies within the coastal savanna vegetation zone.
Four main habitat types are recognizable:    the open water, the
floodplain grassland, the degraded forest and scrubland including
the farmed areas, and the sand dune.     The extent of the open
water varies according to the season, from 100 ha. in the dry
season to 1000 ha. in the wet season; with maximum depth of 1.5
m, grading out to shallow margins and mud banks.            Plant
communities in the open water remain to be studied.

The size of the floodplain grassland is also variable and depends
on the season. The vegetation in the seasonally flooded areas
consists mainly of Sesuvium sp. and Paspalum sp. The drier area
is predominantly grassland, the main species being Imperata sp,
cyperus sp, Dactyloctenium sp and Panicum sp.

The degraded fores~s and semi-natural scrubland is dominlted by
a mixture of coarse grasses and sedges (typically Vetiveria sp,
Fimbristylis sp, Brachiaria sp, Sporobolus pyramidalis and
setaria); herbs (cassia and crium) and shrubs (Borrelia, Abutilon
and Gymnema).

The vegetation on the narrow strip of sand dune which separates
the lagoon from the sea consists mainly of the grasses Sporobolus
and Remirea , Euphorbia and is fringed by coconut palms.

A list of common plant species recorded at Muni is given in
Appendix 6.


          FAUNA

 The Muni lagoon supports an estimated population of 23,000 water
,birds, comprising: 27 species of waders, 8 terns and 7
 herons/egrets.   The site is particularly important for terns:
 supporting 17-65% of the total coastal count of five species of
 terns. It also supports internationally significant numbers of
 black-winged stilt (Table 4).    A full list of seashore bird
 species recorded for Muni is given in Appendix 1.

,Seashore bird populations are highest at Muni during August to
     iI, when palaearctic migrants are present on the Ghana coast.
,,(Fig. 3). Black-winged stilts nest on the site during May-July.

   nd birds in the catchment as well as other forms of animal life
'are yet to be studied.
                                                                  43

Table 4.    Peak counts and national importance of the most
            abundant bird species recorded at Muni (as at 30th June
            1991).

. Species             Max. count      Peak recorded   % entire
                      entire coast*   at Muni         coast

SHOREBIRDS

Black- winged
stilt                 12,460            150                 1.2
Avocet                 3,750             50                 1.3
Pratincole             1,700             40                 2.4
Ringed plover          6,160            320                 5.2
White fronted
sand plover              110             25                22.7
Grey plover            2,780            130                 4.7
Knot                   2,360             30                 1.3
Sanderling             6,480            150                 2.3
Little stUnt
Curlew sandpiper
                      12,350
                      27,980
                                        160
                                        840
                                                  \         1.3
                                                            3.0
Black-tailed
godwit                 1,590             50                 3.1
Bar-tailed godwit        500             30                 6.0
Whimbrel                 460             30                 6.5
Marsh sandpiper          290             40                13.8
Greenshank             8,350            320                 3.8

TERNS

Royal tern             7,550          3,200                42.4
Sandwich tern          6,080          2,100                34.5
Roseate tern             400             80                20.0
Common tern           12,660          8,210                64.8
Little tern            3,240            210                 6.5
Black tern            20,680          3,520                17.0

 HERONS & OTHER WATER BIRDS

 Western reef
 heron                 1,520             80                 5.3
 Little egret          6,400            270                 4.2
 Great white egret     1,860             20                 1.1
       : SEAsONAL CHANGES IN NUMBERS OF SEASHORE
                     BIRDS AT MUNI

    5000                                                                                      -          WADER~

                                                                                              -+-        TERNS


    4000

B
I
R
o   3000
C
o
U
N
T
    2000
                                                                                ---
        I                                            I         \
    1000*,
               ,                      /:
                                        ,a.
                                         '"I
                                                    I              \\ 
               ....:....

               '.
                    ""            I~'
                               /-r-:.: /
                                              '"

                                                 I
                                          '''-,":~
                                                 1
                                                                   \
                                                                                /,
                                                                                  /'1".


                         \ / /                           ~                      /''-,


       0-
           I             ~~
                           .            (
                                                   .. ~-
                                                    . !
                                                                   -l~> ----~~->~.
                                                                            .E=:;: i                                 I
                                                                                                                     :r
       Jul               Aug   Sep     Oct         Nov   Dec   Jan        Feb    Mar                    Apr   May   Jun
                                  90                                                               91                I
                                                          MONTH                                                           ,e..
                                                                                                                          ,e..
                                                                45

3.3.      PUBLIC CONSULTATION

Two groups of people were consulted, namely: the representatives
of the Winneba Traditional Council and the Chief Fisherman and
his colleagues.


3.3.1.    REPRESENTATIVES OF THE WINNEBA TRADITIONAL COUNCIL

 The elders representing the Traditional Council stressed the
 importance of the traditional hunting ground to the people and
 the need for protecting it to ensure continuous availability of
'the festival animal  . They suggested the incorporation of the
 hunting ground into the nearby forest reserve as a way of
 protecting the fauna and the flora from wanton destruction.

They were convinced that preservation would ensure undisturbed
atmosphere for the animals and their habitat to enable them to
multiply. They believed that the '~boakyirt festival connected
with the hunting ground ensures th~ survival of the people and
their culture.   According to them, the protection of the flora,
would also enhance traditional medical practices which thrives
on the availability of various medicinal plants.

The group was of the opinion that protection of the hunting
ground and the lagoon would lead to increase in the number of
birds in the area.    The group pointed out that birds feed on
harmful insects and their presence on the lagoon is an indication
of the presence of fish.

 The elders stated that the community would involve itself in the
 protection of the hunting grounds through their Asafo Companies.
 They talked about rules and regulations to govern the
 preservation and use of the site to be monitored by the Asafo
 Companies who would require a little incentive to boost their
 morale. Whilst the elders expected the community to provide the
,needed incentives, they requested some benevolent associations
 or the Government to provide the initial support until they could
 raise the necessary capital. They appealed to the Government to
 raise the grant allocated to the traditional council so that part
 of it could be channelled into the project.
 With regard to the protection of the lagoon and the fish life in
, t, the elders advocated for a ban on fishing activities in the
 lagoon during the period August to January. To them, this would
. llow increase in the lagoon fish stocks. They suggested that
 the Government should enforce the rules and regulations governing
       sizes of nets used in both lagoon and marine fisheries.
   ey suggested that the people should be involved in the
   forcement of the rules and regulations.
                                                                      46

         3.3.2    KUNI LAGOON SITE

         At the Lagoon site the chief fisherman and his colleagues were
         consulted. The fishermen pointed out that fishing in the Lagoon
         is largely undertaken by the Efutu people for the purpose of
         sUbsistence.  The settler fishermen are commercial fishermen,
         who depend mainly on marine fisheries and they only fish in the
         lagoon occasionally.    It could be inferred that the lagoon
         fisheries had little commercial value to the fishing community.
         The constraints cited by the fishing community included
         unavailability of fishing nets on the local market, difficulty
         in obtaining pulling ropes and lack of outboard motors.    They
         also expressed the wish for financial assistance in the form of
         credit facilities during the lean season, to cushion them and
         to help them purchase fishing gear and other inputs.

         3.3.3.    NEW BEWADZE VILLAGf
                                                                           \
t,,".,   The Chief and elders of Bewadze, a village within the proposed
:       site were also consulted.    The people ar'e subjects of the
fr
         Paramount Chief of' Gomoa.

         They were predominantly farmers and the main crops cultivated
         were tomatoes, maize, pepper and cassava. They complained that
         the soil had lost its fertility resulting in low crop yield.
         They felt that the provision of fertilizers and tractors would
         help them tremendously in their farming activities. The problem
         of soil infertility was a big worry to them since they were no
         longer allowed to farm in the forest reserve.

         The people did    not engage in hunting at all, bushmeat was
         therefore rare.   They depended mainly on fish for their animal
         protein.

         Fue1wood is the main source of energy for cooking. Some of the
         people produced charcoal, which was sold to urban dwellers and
         was scarcely used in the village. The people were not keen on
         tree planting to increase their source of fue1wood because of
         scarcity of land. They complained that already they do not have
         adequate land for farming. They, however, agreed to planting of
         avenue tress in the village.
                                                                              47 


           3.4.        MANAGEMENT STRATEGY


~          3.4.1.      OBJECTIVE

           The specific objectives for the establishment and management of 

           the Muni Ramsar site are as follows: 

                  (i) to maintain and enhance the value of the Huni wetland
i'
I..렁.

 ~,
                  as habitat for birds;
                  (ii) to enhance the value of the adjoining forest and scrub
                  lands as wildlife habitat, with particular reference to
                  species such as the Bushbuck Tragelaphus scriptus, which has
                  significance in local traditions, and other antelopes which
                  are important sources of bushmeat
                  (iii) to maximise agricultural output in the catchment while
                  minimizing the adv~~se effects of agricultural practices oq
                  the wetland ecosyst~m;                                      \
                  (iv) to promote better understanding and greater awareness
                  of local people of environmental issues, and to encourage
                  local participation and support for conservation programmes
                  within the district.

           3.4.2.      MANAGEMENT ACTIONS

           Specific actions to be undertaken for the achievement of these 

           objectives may be summarised as follows: 

                  (i) Establishment of the Muni wetland as a Ramsar site and
                  provision of' necessary infrastructure and resources for
                  effective protection of the site.
                  (ii) Establishment of a zonation scheme which will integrate
                  wildlife management with traditional use of the site, and
                  cater for the needs of the local people while maintaining
                  the wildlife value of the wetland.
                  (iii) Institution of appropriate      programmes   for   land,
                  habitat and faunal management.
                  (iv) Establishment of a conservation education and public
                  awareness programme within the district.
                  (v) Research and monitoring
                                                               48

3.4.2.1.    Site designation
The primary action required for the establishment of the Muni
Ramsar site is to get the site boundaries demarcated and
described, so that the site can be legally designated.

The proposed site covers the entire drainage basin of the rivers
Muni and Pratu c. 96.5 km 2, comprising sand dunes, open lagoon
degraded forest and scrubland.     The proposed boundaries are
indicated on Fig. 9 . On the south is the sea and sandy beach
between the Winneba and Mankwadze towns. The west boundary is
formed by the existing Yenku Forest Reserves, Block B and part
of Block A.   The eastern boundary runs along the edges of the
existing settlements: Winneba, Pomadze and Oguaakrom.

3.4.2.2.   Zonation

For effective mahagement of the site, and also to en~ure that
both the wildlife and local people's needs are catered for, a
zonation scheme is advocated. Five main zones are envisaged
(fig. 10).

      (i). Core area (Zone A)
      This comprises the northern sections of the open lagoon and
      the immediate surroundings covering an area of c. 2 km 2
      This area is currently the most important area for feeding,
      roosting and nesting shorebirds but the least important in
      terms of fishing activities. Human activities in the area
      and access will be restricted during the peak season for
      palaearctic migrants, August to December, and breeding
      season of resident species, May to June, to ensure minimal
      disturbance to the birds.     The boundaries of this area
      should be clearly marked with wooden pegs and sign boards.

      (ii). Traditional hunting Grounds (Zone B)
      This zone, comprising the degraded forest adjo"ining the
      forest reserve, would be a restricted hunting zone, managed
      for sustenance of the traditional Aboakyir festival of the
      Efutu people and for bushmeat production. The perpetuation
      of this tradition depends on the continuous availability of
      bushbucks.   Management of "the zone would seek to improve
      the habitat and ensure sustainable yield of desired wild
      animal species.     Any activities that lead to habitat
      degradation, ego farming, fuelwood collection, grazing of
      domestic animals and bushfires will be strictly controlled.
      Hunting would be regulated, based on a permit system. The
      participation and     involvement of    local  communities,
      particularly the Asafo companies, would be essential for the
      protection of the area and the enforcement of hunting
      regulations.     Management of this zone and bushmeat
      production in the district would be enhanced greatly if
      wildlife management components were incorporated into the
      current management programme of the adjoining Yenku Forest
      Reserve. The possibility for this should be explored with
      ~~~ ~nroarrv npnartmen   .
                                                                 49


     (iii). Controlled Zone (Zone C)
     This comprises the southern half of the open lagoon, the
     sand dunes and the surrounding flood plain adjoining the
     core area. This portion of the drainage basin is considered
     more sensitive in terms of likely effects of human
     activities (eg. agricultural practices) on the wetland
     ecosystem.    The current traditional use of the zone
     (fishing, including shellfish collection and sUbsistence
     farming) would be allowed to continue, but monitored.
     Specific aspects required to be studied include fish
     exploitation and lagoon productivity, with the aim of
     initiating programmes to improve the lagoon fisheries. The
     use of agrochemicals and fire in farming operations should
     also be monitored and controlled.

     Management should also seek to encourage agro-forestry to
     improve fuelwood supply in the area, thereby compensating
     for the re~trictionson access into the tradition~l hunting
     grounds.  loevelopment of housing in this area would be
     restricted to only the immediate vicinity of existing
     villages.
      (iv). Land use management area (Zone D)
      This area includes the outer sections of the drainage basin
      and comprises scrublands, farms and small settlements. The
      land use patterns in this area should be mapped out, and
      appropriate management measures and controls should be put
      in place to minimize any possible adverse effects of land
      use practices on the wetland ecosystem (e.g. deforestation,
      soil erosion, agrochemical run off).    Particular efforts
      should be made to control bushf ires and encourage tree
      planting.

      (v). settlements (Zone E)
      This area comprises part of the Winneba township and
      villages within the drainage basin. Management efforts in
      these areas would be directed at rationalising waste
      disposal to minimise pollution.


,3.4.2.3.   Habitat management

  Core area: 

  No maj or habitat management is envisaged for this area, but 

  additional roosting sites could be provided, through the creation 

  of islands and or the provision of floating wooden platforms in 

. the open water.    Such structures are known to be favour i te
  roosting posts in other sites.

Traditional Hunting Grounds:
(a) Establishment of a fire break (five metres wide) around the       

perimeter with the exception of the ~ide adjoining the forest         

reserve. The fire break will serve the dual purpose of keeping        

fires out of the zone and clearly demarcating the boundaries of       

the zone. 

                                                                50

(b) Habitat enhancement - Desired plant species (based on diet
preference of key antelope species) would be encouraged through
the planting of such species and or removal of undesirable
species within the zone. Detailed mapping of the vegetation in
this area and studies on range composition and feeding ecology
of key antelope species would be required to provide basic
information on the plant species which should be promoted. The
tree planting should be undertaken by the Asafo Companies with
the support and supervision of the wildlife staff.          The
Department of Forestry should be consulted for expert advice on
forestry practices and also supply of seedlings.

controlled Zone and land use management Area.: 

The use of fires for farming in these area should be controlled, 

to ensure that burning is restricted to farm plots. Use of agro 

chemicals should also be monitored. 


Farmers   ~  these areas should be encouraged to take up 

agrofores~y   and community woodlot projects, wlith the aim of 

increasing fuel wood supply, reducing pressure on trees in the 

basin and generally improving< the vegetation cover in the area. 

The services of an Agro-forester would be required to assist the 

wildlife officers in the design and implementation of the 

agroforestry and woodlot programmes. 


 Some efforts should be put into planting coconut trees on the        

 sand dunes.   with the exception of a few seedlings planted in       

 Mankwadze village, all the coconut trees fringing the stretch of     

 beach within the project area are old trees and there is a need      

 to make provision for replacement when these die off. 


  settlement areas: 

  Appropriate waste disposal systems (eg. KVIP toilets, garbage 

. truck) should be provided to improve sanitation in the area.
  'Currently, people living along the coast use the beach as toilets
  and domestic waste is littered all around. Apart from the high
  health risk, the mess created is unsightly and completely mars
  the beauty of the beaches.

     road from Winneba to Muni should be improved.


           Faunal management
  Avian communities: There may be a need to provide, and improve
       ng sites to encourage breeding of some bird species but
.     iled studies on the importance of the site for breeding birds
  and use of the site by such species would be required to justify
  such actions.   The law prohibiting tern trapping (L.I. 1357)
      ld be enforced through conservation education and legal
  action against offenders.

 Mammalian communities
  ithout information on species and populations of the mammalian
   ecies occurring in the area, it is impossible to define
       riate management prescriptions.       Ecological studies
                                                               51

(particularly population dynamics, feeding ecology and habitat
requirements) would be required for culturally important species
like Bushbuck, and favourite bushmeat species like Black duiker
Cepha10phus niger, Maxwell duiker C monticola, Royal antelope
Neotragus pygmaeus, Grasscutter Thryonomys sw inder ianus and
Brush-tailed porcupine Atheurus africanus.
In view of the special significance of Bushbuck to the Efutu
people, there may be a need for restocking of the traditional
hunting grounds, but this will depend on the current status of
the species in the area.   Restocking should only be done when
effective protection of the zone has been achieved, and there is
the assurance that animals introduced will not be immediately
hunted down.


3.5.         RESEARCH AND MONITORING

A \ strong   scientific data base ~s l."f'!quired for effective
management   of the wetland habitat and associated fauna. Baseline
data would   be required on some aspects of the wetland ecosystem
and these    should be collected during the first months of the
project.      This' would be undertaken by local consultants
contracted   on short term basis.

Thereafter, appropriate mechanisms should be developed for
continuous monitoring of key elements by the wildlife staff on
the ground, with assistance of specialists where necessary.

In addition to the baseline studies and the routine monitoring,
certain studies would be best carried out by student researchers
from Ghanaian universities. Provision should be made under the
research and monitoring component to cover such student projects.
The list below gives the relevant areas where data are required.

Baseline studies:
     (i). Hydrological studies      water level measurements,
     sediment flows, and drainage characteristics of the basin.

       (ii). Limnological studies - basic water quality, aquatic
       productivity, point sources of pollution, species and
       abundance of invertebrates.

       (iii). Botanical studies - detailed vegetation mapping of
       traditional hunting grounds.

       (iv). Ornithological studies - species and distribution of
       land birds within the traditional hunting grounds and
       controlled zone; detailed mapping of use of the wetland by
       feeding, roosting and nesting birds.

       (v). Other vertebrate studies - inventory of key mammalian
       species in the traditional hunting grounds and adjoining
       forest reserves.
                                                                 52

Depending on the findings from the above studies, there may be
a need for long term monitoring of some aspects and it would be
necessary for the relevant specialists to come in for 2 - 4 days
a month over at least a one year period during the second year
of the project.
Routine monitoring (to be undertaken by staff on the ground).
       (i). Water levels and water quality (the wate.r level and
       salinity measurements can be done on site by staff, but
       there will be a need for water samples to be collected for
       analysis by the Institute of Aquatic Biology.
       (ii). Basic meteorological data
       (iii). Human usage of the lagoon with particular reference
       to lagoon fisheries (including mollusc collection).
       (iv). Census of breeding birds ",to be carried out during the
       breeding season).
       (v). Regular recording of sightings of larger mammals and
       census of key species in the traditional hunting ground
       (population census should be carried out twice a year in the
       dry and wet seasons).
Topics for graduate student research
       (i). Ecological studies on key mammalian species with
       particular emphasis on feeding ecology, population turnover
       and habitat requirements.
       (ii). Primary productivity and carrying capacity
       (iii). Aquatic productivity.


3.6.        MECHANISM FOR IMPLEMENTATION
3.6.1.      LEAD AGENCY:    Department of Game and wildlife.
3.6.2.      ASSOCIATED AGENCIES:
                            The Save the Seashore Birds P roject
                            Forestry Department
                            Institute of Aquatic Biology
                            Extension Services Division, Ministry
                            of Agriculture.

3.6.3.      LOCAL PARTICIPATION:
The support and involvement of the communities living in the
vicinity of Muni is crucial for the successful management of the
site and every effort should be made to encourage local
                  (




                                                               53

participation. Particular groups whose involvement would be most
productive are the Asafo Companies, and the local political
groups, ie. the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution
(CDRs) and the 31st December Women's Movement (31st DWM).

The Asafo Companies can be used effectively to protect the
traditional hunting grounds (and they have expressed their
willingness to do this); while the CDRs/31st DWM would be more
effective in public awareness campaigns and in mobilizing the
people for specific projects of tree planting.


3.6.4.    STAFF

:The following staff would be required      for   the   effective
management of the Muni Ramsar site:

     position
     Game Warden 

     Rangers
     Driver
                              Number 

                              4i
                                2

                                     
                              ,
     Labourers (Community 

     wildlife assistants)       4


The Game Warden and Rangers will be drawn from the staff of the
Department of, Game and Wildlife.    Efforts should be made to
employ local people in the case of Rangers and certainly, as
community wildlife assistants.    The team would work in close
collaboration with the Asafo Companies and the local CDRs to
manage the site. The site will also be served by support staff
and equipment based at the head office, ie. the Conservation
Education Officer and the secretarial staff.


3.6.5     SITE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

 In addition, a management committee with the under-listed
 composition is recommended for the site.    The committee will
 serve primarily as a forum for the various groups with interest
'in the wetland to come together and air their views on the
management of the site.

     Technical Advisor. 

     Coordinator, Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme. 

     Game Warden in charge of site 

     Representative,SSBP-G. 

     Winneba District Agric. Extension Officer 

     Winneba District Forestry Officer. 

     Representative, central Regional Administration 

     Paramount Chief of Efutu Traditional Council 

     Paramount Chief of Gomoa Traditional Council 

     Presiding member, Winneba District Assembly 

     presiding member, Gomoa District Assembly 

     Chief Fisherman, Muni fishing villages. 

     Representative, Asafo companies. 

                                                                54

 3.7. SITE MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS

Roads and access: The road from Winneba to Muni Lagoon should
be constructed/improved.
 ~uildinqs:  The site will require the construction of an office
 block, a moderate education/visitor centre and housing for staff.
 These should be sited in an appropriate location within the
 controlled zone.     Two observation posts will be built to
 facilitate bird watching and to act as outposts for field work.
 In an effort to improve sanitation and reduce nutrient loading
 of the Wetland, ten KVIP latrines should be constructed for the
 villages within the drainage basin.

   Equipment: Basic office equipment and furnishing for the office 

 and the education centre should be provided. The staff on site 

   would require field gear and sonte simple items of monitoring 

. equipment to properly carry out their duties.

 Transport:   ~ four wheel drive pick-up, one mototcycle and a
  small boat would be required by the staff in their site
  protection work. In addition, there will be a need for a 3 tonne
  tipper truck to be used as a garbage truck and also to move
 materials in and around the project area.
                       55




     SECTION 4 


SAKUMO RAMSAR SITE 

                                                                 56

                          4.   SAKUMO RAMSAR SITE


4.1.          INTRODUCTION

4.1.1.        SITUATION
The Sakumo wetland is situated north of the coastal road between
the cities of Accra and Tema, approximately 3 km from the Tema
township, Lat. 50 37'N, Long. 00 03'W (Fig.1)         The wetland 

comprises an open lagoon, a floodplain and a freshwater marsh. 

The brackish water lagoon covers an area of 1 - 3.5 km 2 deeending 

on the season, and has a surrounding. flood plain of c.7 km 2  The 

lagoon is 'separated from the sea by a narrow sand dune on which 

the Accra - Tema road is built. The Sakumo wetland is the third 

most important site for shorebirds on the Ghana coast. 


              CLIMATE

Temperature, rainfall and relative humidity data for Tema (which
is the nearest metero1ogica1 station) are given in appendix 3.
Mean monthly temperatures range from minimum of 24 캽 in August
to maximum of 29 캽 in March. Total annual rainfall over a 10
year period (1981-1990) averaged 578.5 mm.

4 .   1. 3   HYDROLOGY
 The lagoon is fed by two main rivers from the north, Gbagb1a -
 Ankonu and Mamahuma, with a catchment of c.222 km 2  The lagoon
 is connected to the sea by a sluice, constructed in 1953 to
 prevent flooding of the coastal road. This sluice is presently
 non-operational and there is free exchange of water between the
 lagoon and the sea, with the direction of flow depending on the
 tide. There is very little freshwater inflow into the lagoon.
'This may be attributed to the re-channe11ing of the water from
 the inf10wing rivers to irrigated rice and vegetable farms in the
 northern sections of the wetland. The entire flood plain may,
 however be inundated during the rainy season.
Salinity measurements 'taken during theSSBP-G training course in      

August 1987 varied from 2.8 g 1"' in the north to 18 g 1" in the      

southern parts of the lagoon near the sluice.     The freshwater      

input north of the motorway had a salinity of 1. 4 g 1" as            

compared to the 38.5 g 1" reading for the sea. With very little        

freshwater and seawater inflow, the lagoon acts as an evaporative     

pan during the dry season, resulting in high salinity.        The     

effect of this on lagoon organisms remain to be studied. 

                                                                57 


 4.1. 4    HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND LAND OWNERSHIP

 The Sakumo site lies between two major cities, Accra and Tema,
 with housing developments in the immediate vicinity of the
 lagoon.   The Sakumono village housing developments are in the
 immediate west of the lagoon while the eastern boundary adjoins
 the Tema Communities 3, 5 and 12 housing project.     Appendix 4
 gives the 1984 census data for the settlements which fall within
 the proposed Sakumo site, and whose activities would have a
 direct influence on the wetland. The Sakumo area is expected to
 have the highest rate of urban growth within the Accra coastal
 zone during the coming years, with an estimated population of 1.5
 million by the year 2010.      The lagoon is already severely
 polluted from sewage and other domestic waste, and the increase
 in population could pose a serious threat to the hea+th of the
 lagoon unless appropriate waste disposal systems are developed.

 The lagoon and surrounding flood plain is traditionally owned by
 the Tema and Teshie people, but ~is presently . under the
'jurisdiction of the Tema Development ~orporation.


 4.1. 5    LAND USE

 Intensive fishing (including crab collection) is undertaken in
 the Sakumo lagoon all year round. The fishermen, who came from
 surrounding communities (Tema, Sakumo, Nungua, Teshie, Accra)
 were either full-time fishermen or had jobs elsewhere and fished
 part-time, particularly at week-ends, to supplement their income.
 Fishing is carried out throughout the day and sometimes at night,
 fishing intensity peaks between 0900 hr. and 1200 hr.

 Fishing intensity was lowest during october - March which was the
 closed season (see section 4.1.6 below), and most intensive
 during the first few weeks after the opening of the fishing
 season. The number of fishermen recorded at anyone time in 1988
 ranged from 30 - 310 (Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1991). The fishermen fished
 for 1-5 hrs each day and worked singly using cast nets, or in
 groups of 4-12 using draw nets. Their catch ranged from 1.0-6.1
 kg man- 1 h- 1 (Table 5).

 The tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron accounted for 98% (by
 weight) of the fishermen's catch. Other species caught included
 the horse mackerel Caranx hippos the grey mullet (Mugilidae) and
 the blue-legged lagoon swimming crab Callinectes latimanus
 (Mensah, 19~9; Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987; 1991)

   The lagoon fisheries provided a very significant contribution to
   the livelihood of the fishing communities. with a fishing effort
   of 3.5 man hours day' (Table 5), the average income from the
   lagoon fisheries during the peak season in 1988 was 3-4 times
   higher than the minimum government wage of C 480 for an 8-hr
. working day. The average daily income from crab collection was
  ,also twice as much as the government minimum wage.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              58

          Table 5.                 Sakumo lagoon Fisheries (source: Ntiamoa-Baldu, 1991)
          --- .. _.. -- -_ ........... - ......... -..................... _-_ .. _.. -_ ...................... -- ......................... -_ ............................................ _ .............. .
          Fishery                                      Method                No. of groups/                         Mean time                                Catch                                  Value                     Daily earning
                                                                             fishermen                              hr.(range)                               (kg/man/hr.)                           (C/kg)                    /person (C)**

          Tflapla                                      Cast 

                                                       net                   7                                      3.5 (3-4)                                2.90                                   165.00                                          1675 

o~
                                                       Draw




'.
                                                       net                   5                                      3.2 (1-5)                                2.24                                   165.00                                          1183




I    .'
          Crab
          _ _ _ _ . . . . _ _ . . _ _ _ ... _




          
          **
                                                        Traps

                   Mean ntIIber of net traps per fisherman
                   C 350.00 =U.S.S 1.1>0
                                                .. _   ...   ~_   _ _ . . . . _




          Large quantities of shell were exploited from the shores of
                                                                             5                                      2.3 (0.5'3)
                                                                                    . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ... _




                                                                                                                       = 23.2
                                                                                                                                              ...... _
                                                                                                                                                             0.51
                                                                                                                                                         ..... _   . . . _ _ _ _ _ . _ .. a
                                                                                                                                                                                                    421.00
                                                                                                                                                                                              ___ ... _   . . . . . . . . _ _ .. _ _ _ . . . _
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      494
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......   ~




          Sakumo lagoon for the building industry and as a source of
          calcium in animal feed.   A study in 1987 reported a collection
          capacity of 5 tons of shells by two people every two days. The
          quantity was sold for C 4,500, ;~us providing an income of
          C 1,125.0 person-' day" , equival~nt to ten times the government
          minimum daily wage at that time (Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987).

          The Typha which grow along the edges of the freshwater end of the
          lagoon were also exploited for mats and as material for thatching

          Rice, cassava and vegetable farming is undertaken in the northern
          sections of the wetland, along the banks of the rivers which are
          the main source of freshwater input into the lagoon.      Farmers
          rely on the rivers and also illegal tapping of pipe-borne water
          to irrigate their farms. According to the Management of the Tema
          Development Corporation (TDC), these farming activities were
          illegal.
          Some cattle grazing was observed in the northern sections of
          site.   Previous attempts at salt mining in the eastern part of
          the lagoon had been abandoned.

          Records from the TDC indicated that the northern portions of the
          wetland, constituting about one third of the area proposed for
          the Ramsar site had been earmarked for clay extraction for brick
          and tile manufacture. This was to be undertaken by the TOC, the
          Bank of Ghana, Clay Products Limited, VALCO and State Insurance
          Corporation.   The Boateng committee, set up by the PNDC Member
          and Chairman of Committee of secretaries to investigate the
          Sakumo Ramsar site reservation issues has recently recommended
          the termination of the clay extraction and brick and tile
          manufacturing project.    According to the committee's report
          (Office of the Director of Town and Country Planning Report No
          P/GHA.6/SF IA/TJ of 31st May 1991), the brick and tile project
          was not only detrimental to the objectives of the Ramsar site,
          but also offensive and non-conforming to the zoning of the Accra
          Tema Metropolitan Area Greenbelt and protected water catchment
          area, as detailed in the Coastal Management Plan for Accra.

          A fair amount of recreation occurs at the Sakumo lagoon area.
          The major development in this regard is the Celebrity Golf Club
          and Holiday resort.     The Boateng Committee noted that the
                                                              59

existing developments of the Celebrity Golf club can be
accommodated within the Ramsar concept. The proposed acquisition
of additional 172.03 ha of the Ramsar site for the Celebrity Club
was disapproved and it was recommended that future land needs and
recreational developments were to be assessed in the light of
their compatibility with the Ramsar site objectives.


4.1. 6    CULTURAL ASPECTS

A number of traditional belief's and taboos are associated with
the Sakumo lagoon.   The lagoon is regarded as a fetish by the
local community and it has a Fetish Priest, the Sakumo Wulomo and
a Priestess, Naa 쩹o Wulomo. The black heron Egretta ardesiaca
was considered a sacred bird associated with the lagoon fetish
and its capture or killing was forbidden.       Rules and taboos
associated with the lagoon included:

- prohibition of the use of s~ne nets and other nets of mesh
size (stretched) below 2.5cm;'                                      \
- prohibition of fishing from daybreak to 12 noon on Fridays
(which was considered a sacred day for the lagoon fetish);

- a closed season for fishing from october/November to end of
March/early April.

Crab collection was not affected by these rules. The beginning
of the closed season was determined by the status of the lagoon
fish stocks. The closure-was instituted when the fishermen felt
that the stocks were becoming depleted.     The closing ceremony
involved the pouring of libation and insertion of a coconut
branch at the entrance of the shrine as a symbol for the closure.

The opening of the fishing season is, however, linked with the
annual Kpledjoo festival of the Tema people, which takes place
in early April. The opening normally took place 1-2 weeks before
this festival.  The ceremony involved the pouring of libation,
followed by the casting of a net by the Fetish Priest., The fish
caught by this net were smoked and used with palm oil and maize
flour to prepare a dish which was sprinkled on the banks of the
lagoon to declare it open. The opening ceremony was ~ big event
which attracted fishermen from neighbouring villages and others
from as far as Ada and Keta to join the fishing activity which
followed.

The rules were enforced by the local community. A fine of 5,000
Cedis, plus one sheep could be imposed on offenders, and in the
case of the use of prohibited nets, the nets were confiscated.

Such regulations are typical examples of traditional strategies
which inadvertently protected the lagoon habitat and regulated
exploitation of the     lagoon resources.      They   functioned
effectively as conservation tools in the past, but without legal
backing, these rules and taboos are presently disregarded by a
large number of fishermen. Fishing (including crab collection)
                                                               60

was undertaken every day in Sakumo, even during the closed season
and on prohibited days.


4.1. 7    THREATS

The major threat to the Sakumo wetland is pollution from sewage
and domestic refuse.      Raw sewage is regularly dumped in the
northern parts of the. catchment within the vicinity of the bridge
over the Ashiaman road along the motorway. Faecal material and
other domestic waste from the communities in Ashiaman are also
dumped into the catchment. This is washed into the lagoon dur ing
the rains, resulting in eutrophication, massive blooms of
phytoplankton and highly anoxic conditions in the bottom
sediments. The bottom of the lagoon is presently literally dead;
the substrate is thick black mud with a strong smell of hydrogen
sulphide and practically no invertebrate life.

Another disturbing factor is thl proposals for the siting of the     ,
Tema Sewage Treatment Plant.     This project, being undertaken
under the World Bank Urban II Programme, proposes the siting of
the treatment plant within the Sakumo Ramsar site and discharge
of treated effluent into the lagoon. The assumption here is that
whatever is discharged into the lagoon will be flushed out with
the tide.    This assumption is, obviously, based on a gross
overestimate of the tidal influence on the lagoon and lack of
recognition of the fact that the sediment retention capacity of
Sakumo lagoon is already overstretched. The lagoon is presently
over-loaded and management of the wetland habitat would have to
consider some cleaning up exercise.    A more realistic, albeit
expensive, approach to the effluent disposal problem would,
perhaps, be to discharge the treated effluent direct into the
sea. It is strongly recommended that the proposals for the Tema
Sewage disposal be re-examined. The terms of reference for the
EIA on this particular projet requires critical assessment to
ensure that it addresses the biological processes in the lagoon
which will be seriously affected by any additional waste input.

Another development which could seriously affect the integrity
of the Sakumo wetland is the proposed diversion of the Accra-
Tema coastal road. The plan for the new road indicates that it
will pass through the wetland, which would mean the construction
of a bridge over the lagoon. This proposal should be critically
examined and a detailed environmental impact assessment should
be carried out before any construction work is undertaken.
                                                                61 


4.2.      FLORA AND FAUNA

4.2.1     VEGETATION

Four main habitat types are recognisable in the Sakumo wetland:
the open lagoon, the surrounding floodplain, the freshwater marsh
and the coastal savanna grasslands in the northern sections of
the catchment. The floodplain is periodically inundated and the
areas which are flooded frequently are bare of vegetation. Other
areas are dominated by Sesuvium portulacastrum near the water,
Bothriochloa bladhii at mid-point and Imperata cylindrica near
the high ground.    In the extreme north east, the flood plain
grades into a fresh water marsh where the dominant plant is Typha
domingensis. The open water is often covered with floating water
lettuce Pistia stratiotes.

A zonation of the vegetation in the wetland is discernible. The
main vegetation zones are formed either by pure stands of
Sesuvium   portulaca~trum,    Paspalum    vaginatum,   sporo~olus
virginicus and Imperata cylindrica or associations of these, ego
Sesuvium - Sporobolus association. within the main zones, there
may be clumps or patches of other species of Cyperus articulatus,
Bothriochloa bladhii, Typha domingensis.

Scattered plants of other species also occur e.g. Cleome viscosa,
Scoparia dulcis and Portulaca foliosa.     Appendix 7 lists the
common plants occurring at Sakumo.


4.2.2.    FAUNA

Pauly (1975) lists the invertebrate and fish species recorded in
Sakumo lagoon in the 1970's (Table 6)      It is clear from the
comments on the status of the organisms listed, that the lagoon
supported a lot more animal life in the 1970's than it currently
does. Presently there is very little else apart from the tilapia
and the blue-legged lagoon swimming crab.          Species like
Tympanotonus fuscatus which were abundant at Sakumo in the 1970 I S
(and which are still abundant in areas where they are not
subjected to heavy human exploitation )         are,   presently,
practically non-existent presently.

The Sakumo Lagoon supports large numbers of seashore birds. The
recorded total of 66 species and the estimated population of
32,500 makes the site the third most important seashore bird site
on the Ghana coast. The site supports internationally important
populations of six wader species: spotted redshank, greenshank,
curlew sandpiper, little stint, black-tailed godwit and black
winged stilt (Table 2); and nationally important populations
(> 10% of total coastal record) of at least 30 species of
waterfowl (Table 7). At some times of the year, Sakumo supports
90 - 100% of the total populations of black heron, teal, black
tailed godwit and ruff recorded on the Ghana coast.

  Over 80% of the seashore bird species recorded at Sakumo is
. accounted for by palaearctic migrants. Migrant birds are most
                                                                    62

abundant on the site during September         to March/April (Fig.4).
Resident birds recorded breeding on the        site include Kittlitz's
sand plover, pratincole, little tern,         pied kingfisher, yellow
throated longclaw, plain-backed pipit,        fantail warbler and red
bishop.

Table   6. species and status of animal life recorded in Sakumo
           Lagoon in the 1970s (Source, Pauly 1975).
species                 comments on status
POLYCHAETES 

Syllis hyaline 
              uncommon
Notonectus lineafus 
         common
Nephtys pyrifanis 
           common
GASTROPODS 

tympanotonus fuscatus 
       abundant largest fraction of molluscs
                 \            biomass in the lagoon     \
BIVALVES 

ostrea tulipa 
               enormous quantities
CRUSTACEAN 

Copepods 
                    common
Mysids 

Siriella sp. 
                large numbers
Amphipod 

Brandidirella megua 
         small numbers
Decapods 

Penaeus notialis 
            large quantities
Penaeus ketathurus 
          fairly common
Clibanarius africanus 
       common, living in shells of T. fuscatus
Callinectes latimanus 
       abundant
Uca tangeri 
                 common
Cardiosoma armatum 
          very common
Goniopsis cruentata 
         not common
   PISCES 

   Tilapia = Saratherodon 

   melanotheron 
             abundant 93% of fish biomass
. Ethmalosa fimbriata         fairly common
   ~lops senegalensis         fairly common
  9xyurichtys occidentalis    fairly common
   Mugil sp.                  uncommon
   ~omadasys jubelini         uncommon
 ; L..utj anus sp.            small numbers
   ~naptura punctissima       small numbers
 ,~aranx hippos               small numbers

-------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        63

 Table 7.     Peak counts    and national importance of the most
              abundant seashore birds recorded at Sakumo (as at 30th
              June 1991).
 species                  Max. count         Peak recorded   % entire
                          entire coast       at Sakumo       coast
 SHOREBIRDS
 Black-winged stilt       12,460                900           7.2
 Avocet                    3,750                450          12.0
 Pratincole                1,700              1,420          83.5
 Ringed plover             6,160              1,040          16.9
 White-fronted
 sand plover                 110                 20          18.2
 Kittlitz's sand
 plover                      480 
              100          20.8
 Grey plover               2,780 
              300          10.8
 Knot                      2,360 
              210           8.9
 Sanderling                6,480         \      180           2.8
 Little stint             12,350              2,570          20.8
 Curlew sandpiper         27,980              3,270          11.7
 Ruff                        300                300          100
 Black-tailed godwit       1,590              1,460          91.8
 Bar-tailed godwit           500                200          40.0
 Whimbrel                    460                 40           8.7
 Curlew                      360                 10           2.8
 Spotted redshank         10,440              3,280          31.4
 Redshank                    450                 30           6.7
 Marsh sandpiper             290                110          37.9
 Greenshank                8,350              1,180          14.1
 Wood sandpiper              600                190          31.7
 Common sandpiper            600                150          25.0
 Turnstone                   440                140          31.8
 Jacana                      400                170          38.6

 TERNS
 Royal tern 
              7,550                340           4.5
 Sandwich tern 
           6,080                610          10.0
 Roseate tern 
              400                 40          10.0
 Common tern 
            12,660              2,150          16.9
 Little tern 
             3,240                200           6.2
 Black tern 
             20,680              2,630          12.7

 OTHER WATERFOWLS
     Long-tailed 

     cormorant 
             790   
             60           7.6
     Squacco heron 
         600   
            110          18.3
. Black heron                140   
            130          92.8
 . . Western reef heron    1,520   
          1,020          67.1
  . Little egret           6,400   
          1,360          21.2
     Great white egret     1,860   
            380          20.4
     -Grey heron           1,720   
            740          43.0
     Glossy ibis             120                 10           8.3
                                                64

White-faced
tree duck           17,060 
   640 
    3.7
Garganey             7,450 
   830 
   11.3 

Teal                   140 
   140 
   100 

Black headed gull      280 
    30 
   10.7
Lesser black
backed gull            760 
    10 
    1.3




                                                     \

                            BIRDS AT SAKUMO 

7000r'----------------------------------------------~
                                                                       -      WADERS
6000                                                                   -t-    TERNS


5000                                                             ...



4000


3000


2000




   O!                                          -I     ,,.....
   Jul     Aug   Sep        Oct   Nov'   Dec   Jan   Feb        M~          Apr   May   Jun
       I               90                                              91
                                          MONTH
                                                                                              (1'\
                                                                                              U1
                                                                       66

 4.3           MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

 4.3.1              OBJECTIVE

 Three main objectives have been identified for the management
 of the Sakumo Ramsar site:
       (i)  To maintain and enhance the biological value of the
       site with particular reference to its ornithological value.
       (ii) To maintain and enhance the productivity of the site,
       with particular reference to lagoon fisheries.
       (iii) To develop and enhance the educational, recreational
       and tourist potential of the site.

 4.3.2              MANAGEMENT ACTIONS

 The specific~actions required to be undertaken to\achieve the
 outlined objebtives may be summarised as follows:
       (i)     Establishment of the Sakumo wetland as a Ramsar site.
       (ii)   Institution of         appropriate   habitat   and   faunal
       management programmes.
       (iii)     Development of visitor/educational facilities.
       (iv) Institution of appropriate research and collection of
       data required for the management of the site.

 4.3.2.1       Designation of the Sakumo Ramsar site
 Two conservation area categories are proposed for designation
 within the Sakumo wetland: the core area, to be designated as
 a Ramsar site; and the outer catchment, to be designated as a
 Ramsar Support Zone/Land use Management Zone.
 The proposed Sakumo Ramsar site (core area, fig. 11 & 12) covers
 13.4 km and comprises the open lagoon, surrounding flood plain,
 the freshwater marsh and the scrubland to the north of the
 lagoon.   The area has already been demarcated, pillared and
 boundary descriptions provided by the Survey Department (at the
 request of the SSBP-G and the Department of Game and Wildlife).
 Steps should be taken for the legal designation of the site as
 a Ramsar site.    The Ramsar site should be under the direct
 administration of the Department of Game and Wildlife.
   The ecological integrity of the core area, however, depends on
.. the activities which go on within the outer catchment of the
   lagoon. It is already evident that the faecal and domestic waste
   dumped in the catchment is the major source of pollution to the
   lagoon.   It is therefore recommended that the entire drainage
   basin of Sakumo should be declared as a land use management zone,
                                                                67

to serve as buffer (support) zone for the site.     The proposed
Ramsar Support zone includes all the lands drained by the rivers
onukpawahe, Mamahuma, Dzorwulu and Gbagbla-Ankonu, and including
the township of Ashiaman (Fig. 11)
The zone should be properly demarcated and sign posted. A public
education campaign should be mounted to ensure that the public
is well informed of the purpose and objectives for designating
the area as a controlled zone. The greater part of the area is
currently under the jurisdiction of the TDC and developments
within it are controlled by the TDC and the Tema District
Assembly. It is recommended that the Sakumo Ramsar Support Zone
remain under the management of TDC.             Applications for
developments in the Zone, however, should be presented with TDC's
recommendation, to the site management committee for the
committee's approval, to ensure that development projects would
not have detrimental effects on the health of the Sakumo wetland.
current land use in the zone should be mapped qut. Existing land
use praptices which are likely to adversely'affect the wetland
ecosystem should be re-Iocated wherever possible.        Detailed
environmental impact assessment should be demanded for all future
developments in the zone.


4.3.2.2    Habitat Management

The boundary of the core area should be planted with coconut
trees or any other appropriate plant '(the advice of the Forestry
Department should be sought on this).
The southern half of both the eastern and western boundaries
should be cleared, creating a 2 m wide path, which will form a
nature trail. The southern half of the wetland has the highest
concentration of birds.

The scrubland in the northern half of the wetland is often
destroyed by bushfires during the dry season. Appropriate fire
management should be initiated to protect the habitat from
unwanted fires.    It may also be necessary to initiate tree
planting in this area to enhance the habitat and encourage
colonization and nesting of woodland/savanna birds.     Further
studies are required to determine appropriate tree species that
could be planted.
Farming in the river valley and associated diversion of the water
from the inflowing rivers for irrigation should be minimised.
The sluice which currently connects, the lagoon to the sea
requires repair/re-construction to make it operational. The
advice of AESC should be sought on this.

  The lagoon is currently highly polluted and there would be a need
  for some cleaning up exercise, possibly dredging some parts.
  Expert advice on this should be sought from a hydrologist and an
  aquatic biologist. Steps should be taken immediately to stop the
, dumping of sewage and other domestic refuse in the catchment.
                                                                68

There would also be a need to tidy up the immediate surroundings
of the lagoon, which is currently heavily littered with plastics,
empty cans, bottles etc, resulting from the activi ties of
fishermen and food sellers. This could be done using members of
the Ghana wildlife Society, the wildlife Clubs of Ghana, and
users of the lagoon.     The latter should then be educated to
ensure that the littering would not continue.      Facilities for
refuse disposal should be provided. Fishermen using the lagoon
should be registered to enable monitoring of fish productivity
and human usage of the lagoon.

Although the Sakumo site supports large numbers of birds despite
the intensive fishing which goes on in the lagoon, there is some
evidence that the fishing activity disturbs roosting birds. It
is therefore recommended that additional open water and roosting
sites should be created in the south western corner of the
floodplain, beside the main road. The low lying bare sand/mud
flats and sparsely vegetated parts in this area would be suitable
for this purpose.    This area should then be maintained as a
disturbance free zone (ie. fishing\should not be allowed in the
area) to encourage birds to roost and feed in this area while
fishing continues in the parts of the lagoon currently used for
that purpose.

creation of the new water area could be done by scraping/digging
of surface soil. Results from the monitoring of chang.es in water
levels   due to seasonal     climatic changes     should   enable
determination of appropriate depth of the new water body_ The
material excavated should he used to create islands within the
new water body to serve as roosting sites for birds.      Surplus
material could be used for landscaping the surroundings of the
education centre (see section 4.3.2.4).


 4.3.2.3   Faunal Management
The only faunal management required immediately           is the
prohibition of hunting in the area. A number of bird species are
hunted at Sakumo, including even the black heron which is
considered sacred.   Public education, coupled with enforcement
of hunting laws should effectively stop bird hunting in the site.
Detailed research on habitat requirements and extent of use of
the site by breeding birds would enable definition of additional
faunal management requirements.


 4.3.2.4   Educational and Recreational Facilities
  The situation of the Sakumo wetland between the two cities of
 Tema  and Accra, and its rich bird life give the site great
  potential for education and recreation,        which should be
. eXploited. It is therefore recommended that a visitor/education
  centre should be constructed at the site.      The centre should
  have a modern auditorium for talks and films, an exhibition hall,
  seminar rooms, offices and catering facilities.       The centre
  should be provided with field equipment such as binoculars and
                                                               69

telescopes to facilitate bird watching; and a small library of
nature books and field guides.    Guide pamphlets and leaflets
should be produced and made available to visitors.
The offices and facilities could be used as the head, office for
the Coastal Wetlands Conservation programme, where the Programme
Coordinator and conservation education officer would be based.
A   conservation   education    assistant,   trained   in    site
interpretation, should be based permanently at the site.

The facilities and opportunities available at the site should
be widely publicised, and arrangements should be made with the
Ministry of Education to ensure that the site is optimally used
for nature studies by schools within the Accra/Tema metropolitan
area. The seminar rooms could also be hired out for meetings and
conferences with arrangements for participants to be taken on
nature walks. The catering facilities should be rented out to
a private caterer, with necessary arrangements to ensure that
required standards are \maintained.                          \
The advice of a hydrologist and an architect should be sought on
the siting and plans for the centre.   It would appear that the
high ground next to the Celebr i ty property would be a good
location.  The SSBP-G commissioned the preparation of a design
for an education centre for Sakumo. The plans should be examined
and adopted if considered appropriate.

Two observation posts should be constructed on the site, one in
the western section close to the centre and another in the north
eastern side, just before the freshwater marsh, where 'large
numbers of birds often congregate.


4.4   RESEARCH AND MONITORING

Baseline studies 

The baseline research required at Sakumo are: 

      (i)   Hydrological studies to determine requirements for
      sluice construction, freshwater inputs, ground water levels
      and appropriate depths for the new water body to be created.

      (ii)   Limnological studies to determine current level of
      pollution and define appropriate measures for cleaning up,
      bearing in mind the requirements of the aquatic life forms
      which form prey items for shorebirds.

      (iii) Fishery productivity of the lagoon, with the aim of
      investigating possibilities of improving the lagoon fishery.

      (iv)   Detailed mapping of the vegetation.


Routine monitoring
                                                                      70

other studies which require to be undertaken on routine long term
basis include:                   .

       (i)   Regular monitoring of water levels and fresh water
       inflow.
       (ii)     Regular monitoring of water quality.

       (iii)     Regular monitoring of bird populations.

       (iv)  Mapping of the distribution of breeding birds and
       their habitat requirements with particular reference to
       ground/nesting birds and losses due to floods.

4.5.           HECBANISH FOR IHPLEHENTATION
4.5.1.         LEAD AGENCY:     Department of Game and Wildlife.

4.5.2.         ASSOCIAT~D   AGENCIES:
                                Tema Development corporation
                                The Save the Seashore Birds Project
                                Institute of Aquatic Biology
                                Fisheries Research unit
4.5.3.         LOCAL PARTICIPATION:
The cooperation and involvement of the Tema District Assembly,
the Chief and Fetish Priest of Tema New Town, the local political
groups and the Chief and people of Sakumono should be sought.
The people of Tema New Town and Sakumono would be particularly
useful in site protection activities and law enforcement.


'4.5.4.        STAFF
The following staff should be adequate             for   the   effective
management of the Sakumo Ramsar site:
       Position                    Number
       Game Warden                   1 (to be shared between Sakumo and
                                        Densu delta Ramsar sites)
       Ranger                           1
       Conservation education
       assistant                        1
       Drivers                          1
       Labourers (Community
       wildlife assistants)             2
                                                                 71

4.5.5.    MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

A management committee with the under-listed composition is
recommended for the Sakumo Ramsar site. The committee will serve
primarily as a forum for the various groups with interest in the
wetland to come together to debate and advise on site management
policies and actions.
     senior Technical Advisor. 

     coordinator, coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme. 

     Game Warden in charge of site 

     Representative SSBP-G. 

     Managing Director, TDC. 

     Director, Fisheries Research unit. 

     Presiding member, Tema District Assembly 

     Fetish Priest, Tema New Town. 

     Representative Sakumono Town Development Committee. 

     Representative Ashiaman Town Development Committee 



4.6. SITE MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS

Roads and aooess: An access road should be constructed from the
main road to the education centre.
Buildings: An education      centre, offices and accommodation for
the site warden should        be constructed.    The site warden's
accommodation should be        sited at Sakumono village.       Two
observation posts will l?e   built to facilitate bird watching. Two
public toilets should be     constructed for Sakumono.
Equipment: Basic office equipment and furnishing for the offices
and the education centre should be provided. The staff on site
will require field gear and some simple items of monitoring
equipment to carry out their duties.
Transport:  A four wheel drive pick-up, one motorcycle and a
small boat with a trailer should be provided for the site.
                            72




       SECTIONS 


DENSU DELTA RAMSAR SITE 





              ,   .: -~
                                                               73
                     5.   DENSU DELTA RAMSAR SITE


5.1.       INTRODUCTION

5.1.1.     SITUATION
The Densu delta lagoon and salt pans complex (also known as
Sakumo I and Panbros salt Pans) lie in the river valley formed
by the Aplaku-Takuse and Weija McCarthy Hills, 11 km west of
Accra, Lat. 5 31'N, Long. 0 20'W. The wetland comprises sand
dunes, open lagoon, salt pans, marsh and scrub, which provide
extensive suitable feeding, roosting and nesting grounds for
seashore birds.


5.1. 2     CLIMATE

  Meteorological data for the nearest station Weija, were either
  not available or unreliable, and d~ta for Accra are used. Mean
. temperature, rainfall and humidity'for a 10 year period (1981
  1990) are presented in Appendix 3.     Mean monthly temperatures
  vary by no more than 5캜 in July/August to 30 C in March. Mean
  annual rainfall for the period was 656.82 mm., with maximum
  precipitation occurring in March - June and September :-October.
  December and January are the driest months.    Relative humidity
  is over 90% in the mornings throughout the year. Lowest humidity
  are recorded in the afternoons, ranging from 35 - 50%톓n the dry
  months to around 70% in the rainy season.


           HYDROLOGY

  The Densu wetland is fed mainly by the River Densu, which is
  dammed upstream (the Weija Dam). The Weija dam is one of the two
  dams which supply water to the city of Accra.      The dam has a
  a daily production capacity of 180,000 m3      The dam has had
  profound effect on the lagoon and the general hydrology of the
  wetland.   Freshwater inflow is controlled by. the Weija Water
  works management. Water is only released from July to November,
  and the maximum discharge permissible is 200 m3 per sec.    This
  limit is imposed to safeguard the bridge over the Densu river on
  the Accra-Winneba road.    The following data on the dam was
  provided by Mr. Malcom Adjetey, Ghana Water and Sewerage
. Corporation, Wetja:

 Normal working level of the Reservoir: 14.33 m above datum. 

 Maximum level of the reservoir: 15.25 m. 

 Usual operating level:    12.8-13.7 m. 

 Maximum permissable discharge:     200 m3 sec' 1 (Discharge over 

 spillway normally only from July to November). 

 Normal daily production of drinking water: 90,919,200 I day1. 

 Maximum daily production of water: 104,557,080 I day1. 

 Chloride:   50 ppm. 

  alue of reservoir fishery, up to 10 tons day1. On a good day 

 as many as 150 fishing canoes may be seen on the lake. 

                                                              74

The Dam commissioned in 1978, the old dam was destroyed on 12th
July 1968 by exceptional heavy rain and clogging of the spillway
by vegetation.

The depth of water in the wetland varies according to site and
season.   Water depth can be over 2 m in some parts during the
rainy season whereas in the dry season, large parts dry up
completely. There is currently no direct outlet channel into the
sea, but in some years the lagoon opens into the sea at the south
west corner after heavy rains.    In other years, the management
of the Panbros Salt Company attempts to bull-doze an opening in
the sand dunes to let out water from the ~ans. Salinity readings
taken in August 1987 ranged from 1.5 g 1- at point of freshwater
inflow to 11.5 g 1'1 at the seaward end (SSBP-G, 1987).


5.1. 4    HUMAN SETTLEMENTS AND LAND OWNERSHIP

The eastern and north east~rn sections of the wetland are heavily,
settled   (Oansoman,   Malam,  Mendskrom    and  Mccarthy   Hill.
Settlements within the wetland itself consist of small villages
with populations of less than 5,000 (Appendix 4). According to
the Operations Manager of Panbros Salt Company, Mr. Karikari
Apenteng, the area comprising the wetland is held in trust by the
Ghana Government for the people of James Town.     Panbros has a
concession of 2,792 acres (Fig.13)


5.1. 5    LAND USE

The major human activities in the area are large scale commercial
salt extraction and lagoon fisheries. It is estimated that over
1,500 people live and work in the area. Salt production by the
Panbros Salt Company is carried out by the concentration of sea
water in a series of salt pans.        Approximately 75% of the
company's concession is currently developed and worked as salt
pans and a further 10-15% is being developed.

Fishing in the lagoon is undertaken ,mainly by people from the
fishing villages located on the sand dunes, but fishermen may
also come from the adjoining settlements in Accra. A few of the
fishermen were part time, but most of them were full time
fishermen who derived their livelihood from lagoon fisheries.
The fishermen use cast nets, draw nets, bottle traps and fence
traps.   In recent years a few fishermen have introduced Acadja
fisheries in some parts of the lagoon.      The catch (which was
mainly tilapia) varied greatly depending on the season and the
water level, being greatest when the water level was moderate,
low when the lagoon dried up and none at all when it is flooded.
The income from the fisherr therefore fluctuated greatly, but
could be up to C 5,000 man- day-1.   Blue-legged lagoon swimming
crabs were also collected, using crabs traps. The few fishermen
interviewed reported lower catches in recent times and smaller
fish sizes, and attributed this to the increased number of
fishermen.
                                                               75

A limited amount of mangrove cutting for household firewood was
observed. Sedges and reeds (mainly Imperata, Cyperus and Typha)
were collected during the rainy season to be used for thatch and
mats. A few cattle were regularly seen grazing in the scrub and
also in the marshlands during the season.
Some hunting goes on in the wetland.      Herons were the main
species shot. Tern trapping have also been observed on the site.
Hunting on the site has gone down drastically in recent times as
a result of restrictions by the Panbros Company. A small number
of people use the site for recreation, mainly swimming and sun
bathing at week-ends. Permission was required from the Company
for entry into the area.


5.1.6     CONFLICTS

The water regime determined by the Weija Water Works, is a major
source of conflict between the water supply company, the owners
of the salt indus~ry and the fishing communities.    The f.low of
water into the wetland is regulated by the Water Works who
(during the rainy season) must periodically release water into
the wetland to maintain the reservoir level at the right height
and to avoid flooding the bridge over the Densu river on the
Accra-Winneba major road. Peak salt production takes place when
conditions are dry and the salt company is unhappy when the
wetland is flooded, as it happens during heavy rains or when
water is released by the water works.

The fishermen's catch declines when water levels ar~ too high.
The flooding also destroys property in nearby settlements.
Flooding of the wetland impairs bird roosting and nesting sites
and often washes away nests and eggs of ground nesting birds 
particularly pratincole, black-winged stilt and little terns.
Plans for management of the site should therefore seek to address
the problem and develop a water management strategy which will
be satisfactory to all interested parties.
                                                              76

5.2       FLORA AND FAUNA

5.2.1     VEGETATION
Five main habitat types are recognizable in the Densu wetland:
sand dunes, salt pans, brackish lagoon, freshwater marsh, coastal
savanna grassland and thickets. There is very little vegetation
on the sand dunes and in the salt pans. Coconut trees fringe the
dunes, while the banks of some of the pans are colonised by
Sesuvium portulacastrum. The open lagoon and freshwater marsh
is fragmented as a result of the salt pan construction.
scattered stands of mangrove may be found in some areas around
the lagoon, while in the less saline areas, the vegetation is
mainly Imperata and Typha stands, with extensive areas of open
water interspersed with islands of Cyperus.       The marshlands
adjoin scrub, where the main trees are BrvsocarDUS and
Securinega, with extensive open areas dominated by vetiveria.
A list of the more common plant species occurring in the wetland
is given in Appendix 8. A detailed study of ,the vegetation would
be required, particularly in the coastal savanna thicket and
grassland areas on the western sections of the site.


5.2.2          FAUNA

Detailed information on fauna is available only on birdlife.
Distribution and abundance of other animals, particularly
invertebrates, require to be studied.

The Densu delta site has a record of 57 species of seashore birds
with an estimated population of 35,000. The site is particularly
important for terns, being the second most important tern site
(after Songor) on the Ghana coast. The importance of the Densu
delta site is further enhanced by its population of Roseate
terns, a threatened species. The peak count of 200 Roseate terns
at this site accounts for approximately 20% of the European
breeding population of this rare species.      other water birds
which occur in significant numbers on the site include waders and
herons. The site supports internationally important populations
of four species of waders:      curlew sandpiper, little stint,
spotted redshank and black-winged stilt (Table 2). Fifteen other
species of water birds occur in nationally important numbers (>
10% of peak count for the entire coast, Table 8). Seashore birds
are most abundant on the site August - March (Fig. 5).
At least 70 species of land birds have been recorded on the site,
but this is by no means, the complete list, and further studies
are required on this aspect.      From May to August, the site
becomes important for a number of resident breeding birds (Table
9) 
                                                                  77

Table 8.  Peak counts    and national importance of the most
          abundant seashore birds recorded at Densu delta (as at
          30th June 1991).
species                Max. count      Peak recorded    % entire
                       entire coast*   at Densu delta   coast

SHOREBIRDS

Black-winged stilt     12,460             310   
        2.5
Avocet                  3,750             100   
        2.7
Pratincole              1,700             330   
       19.4
Ringed plover           6,160           1,560   
       25.3
White-fronted
sand plover               110 
            10 
          9.1
Kittlitz's sand
plover                    480   
          30 
          6.2
Grey plover             2,780   
         340 
         12.2
Knot                    2,360   
          30 
          1.3
sande~ling              6,480   
         230       \    3.5
Little stint           12,350   
       2,610           21.1
Curlew sandpiper       27,980   
       4,730           16.9
Ruff                      300   
          20 
          6.7
Bar-tailed godwit         500   
          10 
          2.0
Whimbrel                  460   
          30 
          6.5
Curlew                    360   
           5
           1.4
Spotted redshank       10,440   
         550 
          5.3
Marsh sandpiper           290   
          30 
         10.3
Greenshank              8,350   
         390 
          4.7
Wood sandpiper            600   
          50 
          8.3
Common sandpiper          600   
          50 
          8.3
TUrnstone                 440   
          50 
         11. 4 


TERNS 

Royal tern 
            7,550   
       2,590   
       34.3
Sandwich tern 
         6,080   
       1,970   
       32.4
Roseate tern 
            400   
         200   
       50.0
Common tern 
          12,660   
       3,130   
       24.7
Little tern 
           3,240   
         930   
       28.7
Whiskered tern 
          100   
          30   
       30.0
Black tern 
           20,680   
       2,250   
       10.9

. OTHER WATERFOWL
  Long-tailed
, cormorant               790   
         130 
         14.4
  Squacco heron           600   
          20 
          3.3
  Black heron             140   
           2
           1.4
  Western reef heron    1,520   
         310   
       20.4
  Little egret          6,400   
       1,630   
       25.5
  Great white egret     1,860   
         290   
       15.6
'Black headed gull        280   
          60   
       21.4
  Lesser black
, backed gull             760 
            30 
          3.9
80001                                                  ~

                                                             -      WADERS
                                                             -/- TERNS

6000




4000




2000                          /                        --
   O~!----~--~--~~--~--~----~--~----~--~----~--~
   Jut   Aug   Sep    Oct   Nov 'Dec       Jan   Feb   Mar       Apr   May   Jun 

                 90                    i                     91 

                                  MONTH
                                                                                     -...l
                                                                                     00
                                                              79

Table 9.   Speoies of birds reoorded breeding at the Densu delta
           site


species              comments

Black-winged stilt   Nests, eggs, nestlings
Pratincole           Nests, eggs, fledglings
Kittlitz's sand
plover               Newly hatched young, fully fledged    young
                     following parent
Little tern          Nests, eggs, fledglings
Little bittern       Nest, parent nest visiting
Pied kingfisher      Nest holes in bank of salt pan
Purple gallinule     Nest and eggs
Yellow crowned
bishop               Several nest~, containing eggs, singing and
                     displaying males
                     Several nests containing eggs, singing and
                     displaying males \
 ellow-throated
long claw            Singing birds
African pied
wagtail              Singing and displaying birds
Copper sunbird       singing bird
Brown sunbird        Singing bird
Pin-tailed whydah    Displaying birds.
                                                                         80

    5.3                MANAGEMENT STRATEGY

    5.3.1              OBJECTIVE

    The management strategy advocated for the Densu delta Ramsar site 

    has three main objectives: 


            (i)   To integrate wildlife management with the existing
            human use of the site and enhance the benefits derived from
            the wetland by the current users.

            (ii)  To develop the education and recreational potential
            of the site.

            (iii) To maintain and enhance the ecological value of the
            wetland particularly for water resources, fisheries and



j
(
    5.3.2
            birds.


                       MANAGEMENT ACTIONS
                                         ,                                    \
    Specific actions to be undertaken for achievement of the above 

    objectives include the following: 


            (i)   Establishment of the Densu delta Ramsar site and
            designation of the outer drainage basin as a Land-Use
            Management area.

            (ii) Establishment of a zonation scheme to ensure minimum
            disturbance to breeding birds.

            (iii)   Institution of     appropriate   habitat   and   faunal
            management programmes.
            (iv)    Development of appropriate water management scheme.

            (v)     Development of educational and visitor facilities.

    5.3.2.1        site designation
    It is recommended that the Densu delta wetland should be legally 

    established as a Ramsar site. The proposed Ramsar site covers 

    c.46 km 2 and comprises the salt pans, sand dunes, the flood 

    plains and catchment of the Densu river south of the Accra -

    Winneba ;road (Fig. 13).    The western boundary runs along a 

    transect between Bortianor and the point marked on the map as the 

    Microwave station, then eastward along a foot path to the main 

    road which forms the northern boundary.     The eastern boundary 

    runs along the edge of the Dansoman settlements. The area should 

    be surveyed and demarcated to enable accurate description of the 

    boundaries. 


    Protection activities in the area should be undertaken by the 

    Department of Game and Wildlife, but management will have to be 

                                                                 81 


in close consultation with   Panbros Salt company who owns part of
the proposed Ramsar site.     Existing land use in the area should
be allowed to continue,       but future developments should be
strictly assessed in terms   of their compatibility with the Ramsar
concept.

It is further recommended that the drainage basin of the River
Densu immediately north of the Accra          Winneba road, and
including the Weija dam and reservoir areas should be declared
a Land Use Management Zone (Fig .13) .      This area should be
demarcated and sign posted as appropriate. Part of the area is
currently under the management of Water and Sewerage corporation.
It is recommended that a management board should be set up to
draw up modalities for management of the site. The board should
have on it, representatives of departments/institutions such as
the Water and Sewerage Corporation, Game and Wildlife, Forestry,
Town and Country Planning, Institute of Aquatic Biology and
Fisheries Research Unit.


5.3.2.2   zonation                \                                     \
The site is currently heavily utilized for various human
activi ties.  This, coupled with the fact that most of the
important bird areas are under private ownership, makes it
difficult to impose any stringent restrictions. The areas which
are important for roosting and feeding birds are the salt pans
and the marshlands. The marshland to the west of the main road
leading into the salt pans, and the patch between the housing
developments and the eastern end of the salt works, provide
nesting sites for breeding birds.   It is recommended that some
arrangement should be worked out with the salt company for the
establishment of these areas as bird sanctuaries.            The
sanctuaries should then be kept free of human disturbance,
particularly during the breeding season.    The salt company is
currently extending the pans and it may be necessary to pay some
compensation to the company to stop development of the important
bird nesting areas into pans.

The savanna lands to the west of the site, including 톞he Weija
hills, should be developed as a nature park. Provision has been
made in the budget for habitat enhancement activities in the
area.

5.3.2.3   Habitat management

Most of 톞he areas where habitat management is required fall under
the Panbros Company's concession.      The actions advocated can
therefore only be undertaken in consultation with and with the
agreement of the management of the company.      Fortunately, the
Company has shown interest in the designation of the Densu delta
area as a Ramsar site and the developments proposed.

The bunds between the pans and the wooden pegs in some of the
pans are favourite tern roosting sites.    The possibility of
                                                               82

providing additional pegs in the two main tern roosting sites 

should be explored.    Every year several eggs of black-winged 

stilts, pratincoles and little terns are washed away by floods. 

The only eggs which survive are those on the mounds within the 

flood plains. One mound on the edge of the main lagoon has been 

used every year by black-winged stilts for nesting over the past 

five years; and in some years, the same mound has been used 

sequentially for two or more broods.     It is recommended that 

additional mounds should be created in the bird sanctuary to 

provide more nesting sites. Small islands and wooden platforms 

should also be provided in the lagoon to attract roosting and 

nesting birds. 

Extensive areas of the water bodies are dominated by Imperata sp. 

and there will be a need for periodic control to keep it from 

spreading too widely. 



5.3.2.4    Faunal management
                         \                                      \
The Management of the Panbros Salt Company already exert some       

restriction on hunting, but some hunting, particularly tern         

trapping still continues.        Hunting should be completely       

prohibited on the site through regulation and enforcement. Apart    

from the unnecessary disturbance, it is incompatible with the       

management objectives and it also poses a risk to the large         

number of people who move about in the wetland. 


Detailed" studies should be carried out on reproductive success     

of ground nesting birds, with particular reference to the effects   

of flooding on survival rates.      If found necessary, rescue      

operations should be mounted during periods of heavy rains to       

reduce clutch losses and increase hatching success. 



5.3.2.5    water management

The conflict between the water Works, the Salt Company, the 

Fishermen over the present water regime has been referred to in 

section 5.1.7.   There is a need to develop a water management 

strategy which would be satisfactory to all interested parties 

and which will also enhance the Wetland habitat for birds.     It 

would be necessary to construct a sluice(s) at appropriate points 

to regulate the water levels in the wetland. Such a system will 

ensure that excess water drains into the sea, and when necessary, 

water can be retained in the sections of the wetland where this 

is required.   It is recommended that AESC or some other water 

engineering company should be commissioned to undertake 

feasibility studies and design an appropriate system for solving 

the problem. 



,5.3.2.6   Educational and Visitor Facilities

The Densu delta site offers immense opportunities for nature 

studies and recreation. The existing road network developed by 

                                                                83

the salt company provides easy access and close bird viewing,
which makes the site ideal for bird watching. Visitors will also
have the opportunity to see the salt production process.      If
appropriate facilities are developed, school groups from Accra
and nearby villages could greatly benefit from use of the site
as afield laboratory.       It is recommended that a moderate
education/visitor centre should be established at the site. The
centre should have an office, a small exhibition room and a
lecture/audio visual hall which is big enough to seat a class
(c.40). The centre should be provided with field guides; nature
books, slide and film projectors, binoculars and telescopes. A
conservation education assistant should be stationed permanently
at the site if the level of visitor use of the site warrants
this. Two observation posts should be provided at the site to
facilitate bird watching. The siting of both the centre and the
observation posts should be negotiated with the salt company.


5.4              RESEARCH AND MONITORING
Baseline studies reqJired at the Densu delta site are:      \

      (i) Hydrological studies - this would be required as part
      of the feasibility studies to design appropriate water
      management strategy.

      (ii) Detailed mapping of habitat usage by birds to enable
      a clearer definition of important bird areas within the
      wetland.

      (iii) Vegetation mapping, particularly in the dry lands to
      the west of the site.     This will define any needs for
      habitat enhancement by way of tree planting.

Routine Monitoring

      (i)    Regular monitoring of water levels.

      (ii)    Regular monitoring of water quality.
      (iii)    Monthly census of birds       this is currently
      undertaken by SSBP-G staff and should be continued.
      (iv)   Human usage of the water bodies for fishing and
      assessment. of the fisheries productivity, with the aim of
      improving the fisheries.     The Acadja system currently
      practised by some fishermen should be evaluated and
      encouraged if found profitable.

Student Research project

The accessibility of the site and large numbers of birds provide
attractive conditions for ecological studies, which students from
the Zoology, Botany and Geography Departments of the University
of Ghana should be encouraged to exploit.    Examples of studies
which could be undertaken as student projects include:
                                                                     84

       (i)             Feeding ecology of major bird species.

       ( ii)        Reproductive biology of resident birds.

       (iii)        Effect of habitat changes (cutting of Typha and
                    cyperus) on birds.

       (iv)         Fishery productivity and harvesting within the
                    lagoon.

       (v)          Distribution and abundance of invertebrates.

       (vi)         Mangrove distribution and effects of coppicing on
                    establishment of the mangrove vegetation.

       (vii)        General ecology and socio-economics of wetland
                    usage.


4.6.           MdCHANISM FOR IMPLEMENTATION

4.6.1.         LEAD AGENCY:      Department of Game and Wildlife.

4.6.2.         ASSOCIATED AGENCIES:
                              Panbros Salt Company
                              Ghana Water and Sewerage corporation
                              The Save the Seashore Birds Project
                              Institute of Aquatic Biology

4.6.3.         LOCAL PARTICIPATION:
                              The cooperation and involvement of the
                              fishing communities and the Ga (Rural)
                              District Assembly should be sought.

4.6.4.         STAFF
                                 The following staff should pe adequate
                                 for the effective management of the
                                 Saku mo R amsar site:
               position                  Number
               Game Warden                 1 (to be shared with Sakumo)
               Ranger                      1
               Conservation education
               assistant                   1
               Labo~rers (Community
               wildlife assistants)        2


4.6.5. 
       MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

A management committee with the under-listed composition is
recommended for the Densu delta site. The committee will serve
primarily as a forum for the various groups with interest in the
site to come together to debate and advise on site management
policies and actions.
                                                               85
                                                                    I
     senior Technical Advisor.
     Coordinator, Coastal Wetlands Conservation Programme.
     Game Warden in charge of site
     Representative SSBP-G.
     Managing Director, Panbros Salt Company.
     The site Manager, GWSC, Weija.
     Presiding member, Ga (Rural) District Assembly
     Representative, Bortianor Town Development Committee/CDR.


4.7. SITE MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS

Buildings:  An education centre should be constructed for the
site. Two observation posts should also be built to facilitate
bird watching.   Four public toilets should be constructed for
the villages along the shore.

Equipment:  Basic equipment should be provided for the education
centre.   The staff on site will require field gear and some
simpl~ items of monitoring equipment to car~ out their duties.

Transport:  The site would share the four wheel drive pick-up and
a small boat with a trailer provided for Sakumo. One motorcycle
should be provided for the ranger.
                                          86




                         ,   ...   .,..




. 'SECTION 6
 ~
  .,
       ..
       orA RAMSAR SITE
                                                               87

                    6.   ANLO-KETA RAHSAR S:ITE



6.1. INTRODUCTION

The Keta wetland, comprising a large expanse of open lagoon,
floodplain, marsh land and extensive mangrove stands, lies to the
east of the Volta estuary (Lat. 5 55 IN, Long. 0 59 I E) .  The
lagoon stretches for c.40 km along the coast and is separated
from the sea by a narrow coastal ridge on which the Keta township
and other settlements are situated.

The Anlo-Ketaarea is very densely populated. Farming, fishing
and salt mining are the main occupations of the indigenous people
in the area. . The area is famous for shallot farms and market
gardening, which produces large quantities of onion and okro.
Other crops grown include pepper, tomatoes, cassava and maize.
Lagoon fisheries is a major sourc~ of livelihood for many people
in the area.  S~lted and smoked ~lapia from the Keta lagoon is
sold in markets throughout the Volta Region and as far as Accra.
                                                                     \
Salt winning is another major industry, particularly during the
drier periods of the year, November - March. A survey undertaken
by the National. Service Secretariat reported 3,500 families
engaged in salt mining within the Ketu district in 1989.

Another important source of income in the area is firewood. The
mangroves are intensively exploited for firewood.       .Lucrative
firewood markets thrive all along the main road from the Anlo
Keta junction to Keta and in towns like Anyanui on the edges of
the lagoon, where the firewood is transported in canoes over the
water to the market centres.                          .


6.2. ORNITHOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF THE KETA WETLAND

The Keta wetland is the most important seashore bird site along
the Ghana coast. The site has all the 72 seashore bird species
recorded for the Ghana coast.    Current estimated seashore bird
population is around 110,000, but the true population is believed
to be several times higher than this estimate. This is because
only a small proportion of the area is covered in the SSBP-G bird
monitoring programme.    Ground accessibility to the lagoon is
difficult and ooly the accessible areas are covered. Secondly,
counts are taken on foot, thus limiting the total area that can
be covered. The site is therefore more important for water birds
than the current figures portray.

The bird populations include several thousands of waders, terns,
herons and ducks.   At times, Keta alone holds 60% of the total
population of waders on the Ghana coast (Ntiamoa-Baidu and
Hepburn 1988).    The site supports internationally important
populations of eight species of waders: spotted redshank,
greenshank, ringed plover, curlew sandpiper, little stint, black
tailed godwit, avocet and black-winged stilt (Table 2).
                                                              88

The site is important for one species of tern, caspian tern; the
entire coastal population of caspian tern is often found on the
Keta lagoon. Table 10 shows the peak species counts recorded
at Keta and the national importance of the site for seashore
birds.   The site contributes 90 - 100% of the recorded total
count for ten species:   black-winged stilt, knot, curlew, wood
sandpiper, caspian tern, western reef heron, squacco heron,
purple heron, white-faced tree duck and garganey.       Eighteen
other species occur in numbers which account for over 50% of the
recorded coastal total population for the species.
The site is most productive during September to April (Fig.6).
Bird numbers at Keta are greatly influenced by the level of water
in the lagoon.    As much as 90% of the population disperse to
other areas, particularly songor lagoon, when the area gets
flooded and all the shallow margins and mud banks which form the
important feeding areas are inundated. Birds flock in thousands
to the 'area as the water recedes. Presently the most important
areas for birds in the Keta wetland are the shallow waters and
mud banks around Anloga between Woe and Fiahor, around Adina ctnd
Afiadenyigba.          l
                 The Ad na section alone often holds 10,000\
15,000 curlew sandpipers, equivalent to 2-3% of the estimated
East Atlantic Flyway population of the species.
                                                                   89

Table 10. Peak counts   and national importance of the most
          abundant seashore birds recorded at Keta (as at 30th
          June 1991)

species                Max. count           Peak recorded   % entire
                       entire coast*        at Keta         coast

 SHOREBIRDS
 Black-winged stilt    12,460          12,080               96.9
 Avocet                 3,750           1,560               41.7
 Pratincole             1,700           1,010               59.4
 Ringed plover          6,160           2,860               46.4
 White-fronted
 sand plover              110              50               45.5
 Kittlitz's sand
 plover                   480             390               81.3
 Grey plover            2,780           1,390               50.0
 Knot                   2,360           2,340               99.1
 Sanderling     ~       6,480             580                8.9
 Little stint   ,      12,350           5,790           \   46.9
 Curlew sandpiper      27,980          14,810               52.9
 Ruff                     300             140               46.7
 Black-tailed godwit    1,590           1,270               79.9
 Bar-tailed godwit        500             230               46.0
 Whimbrel                 460              60               13.0
 Curlew                   360             330               91.7
 Spotted redshank      10,440           8,330               79.8
'Redshank                 450             170               37.8
 Marsh sandpiper          290             260               89.6
 Greenshank             8,350           6,910               82.7
 Wood sandpiper           600             540               90.0
 Common sandpiper         600             280               46.7
 ,Turnstone               440             110               25.0
 Jacana                   400             280               70.0

TERNS

Caspian tern              440             440               100
Royal tern              7,550             290                3.8
Sandwich tern           6,080             520               8.5
Roseate tern              400              10               2.5
Common tern            12,660           2,770               21.9
Little tern             3,240             810               25.0
Whiskered tern            130             130               100
Black tern             20,680           1,870               9.0

OTHER WATERFOWL
Long-tailed
cormorant                 790             650               82.3
Pink-backed pelican       900             690               76.7
Squacco heron             600             570               95.0
Black heron               140              40               28.6
Western reef heron      1,520           1,420               93.4
Little egret            6,400           3,980               62.2
Great white egret       1,860           1,650               88.7
                                                  90

Purple heron           100     100         100
Grey heron           1,720   1,170         68.0
Glossy ibis            120      80         66.7
White-faced
tree duck           17,060   17,040        99.9
Garganey             7,450    6,910        92.7
Teal                   140      110        78.6
Black headed gull      280      100        35.7
Lesser black
backed gull            760      500        65.8
Little gull            225      130        59.1




     \                                \

FIG. 6: SEASONAL CHANGES IN NUMBERS OF..,.SEASHORE
                             BIRDS AT KETA LAGOON

    40000
                                                    WADERS
                                                    TERNS


    30000
8
I



            I
R
0
                                           I
c                                      I
0   20000
u
N
T


            I   /
                             /'''''/            -
    10000


                                                            ""',
                    '-" ..
                                                                   "
                             "
                                      MONTH
                                                                       1.0
                                                                       .... 

                                                                   92
  6.3           THREATS

  Three main problems face the communities around the Keta lagoon. 

  The first is the coastal erosion problem.       Over the past 50 

  years, the coastline has receded by some 500 m (Dorbu, 1985). 

  Many houses have been destroyed as a result of the erosion, 

  causing many people to migrate from the district. The situation 

  has led to disintegration of families and created serious social 

  problems in the area.      The second problem is the periodic 

  inundation of the lagoon and its surroundings, leading to 

  destruction of farms and major losses to human property.      The 

  third problem is the inadequacy of land high enough to enable 

  construction of houses which will be safe from the lagoon floods. 

  The narrow sand ridge on which the towns and villages are built 

  is only c.2.5 km at its widest point and c.0.92 km at the 

  narrowest portion (Dorbu, 1985). 


  The lagoon collects water from a large catchment.      The sources 

  of inflow into the lagoon are: 


        (i)  Run-off from the Todzi~ River which enters and fills           \
        the Avu lagoon in wet years and overflows into the Keta
        lagoon via several small tributaries.

        (ii) Run-off from Aka and Belikpa streams which enter Keta
        lagoon directly from the north.

        (iii)    Interflow into the Keta lagoon from the Volta River.

   Flow from the Volta River has become less important in the past 

   20 years owing to the regulation of flow of the Volta River by

t  the Akosombo dam. It is estimated that 100% of the flood flow
f  from the Aka/Belikpa river basin and 50% of the flood flow from
~  the  Todzie basin enter the Keta lagoon (Tahal Consulting
   Engineers, 1986).

  The ecological changes which have affected the eastern coastline 

  stretching from Tema through Togo and the western coast of Benin 

  have been attributed to the construction of the Akosombo dam, 

  among other factors. Changes which have occurred over the years 

  following the construction of the dam include silting and 

  blockage of the channels inter connecting the lagoons. This has 

  affected the direct and natural drainage system that used to 

  regulate the lagoon water levels.   The only significant outlet 

  of water from the lagoon is by evaporation, estimated at 1,500 

  mm annually (Tahal consulting Engineers, 1986). 


  The result of the changes in the natural drainage system is that      

  in the dry season, large areas of the lagoon and marshlands dry       

  up, leaving small pools of hyper-saline water. In the wet season      

  and during heavy rains, the water level in the lagoon become so       

  high that houses and crops around the periphery of the lagoon         

  become inundated. 

                                                                  93 


Several committees have been set up and many consultants have
been commissioned at various points in time to find a solution
to the Keta lagoon problem. Proposals put forward for solving
the problems include:
      (i)  establishment of structures and barriers on the sea
      side for protection against the excessive erosion.

      (ii)    replacement of lost    land   on   the   sea-side   by
      reclamation from the lagoon.
      (Iii) protection against the flooding caused by high lagoon
      water levels. Proposals for this include the provision of
      a permanent outlet from the Keta lagoon, to the sea for
      flood relief, which will also' prevent drying up of the
      lagoon in periods of low rainfall by the admission of sea
      water into the lagoon.   It is believed that a coupling of
      this with beach stabilization measures to counteract the
      strong sand erosion and deposition process would be able to
      contain the flood prob1em~
                                                                         \
The developments being advocated in the above proposals will
obviously affect the wetland ecosystem and the wildlife it
supports.    It is, however, very clear that any attempts at
conserving the Keta wetland cannot succeed unless it first
addresses the serious socio-ecological problems in the area.
Huge sums of money are required to provide solutions to the
problems. In 1986, Tahal Engineering Consultants estimated that
an amount of US$ 5.37 m. would. be required to construct the flood
control outlet and associated jetties.          The int~rnational
ornithological importance of the Keta lagoon no doubt warrants
its designation as a Ramsar site. But this is definitely a case
where conservation should be used for development and for
improvement of the quality of life for a people 'whose very
existence, cultural identity and total environment is severely
threatened.


6.4        MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
We do not, at the present moment, know enough about the
ecological processes and sociological forces operating in the
Keta wetland to even attempt to draw up management톚1ans for the
site.
We can r however make two recommendations and define what these
entail:

      (1)  It is recommended that the Reta Lagoon Complex should
      be established as a Ramsar site.    Thereafter, the Ramsar
      concept of wise use of wetlands should be exploited to
      develop and manage the site to enhance its ecological value
      for the benefit of the local communities.
                                                               94

     The proposed Anlo-Keta Ramsar site covers c. 530 km 2 and
     includes the Keta, Angaw and Avu lagoons and their
     surrounding flood plains and the mangrove swamps e.ast of the
     Volta River (Fig.13).   The Volta River forms the western
     boundary, while the northern and north-eastern boundaries
     are delineated by the road from Sogakope through Akatsi and
     Abor to Denu. The boundaries should be properly' demarcated
     and described to enable legal designation of the site as a
     Ramsar site.
     The area is heavily settled and it would be necessary to
     define a zonation scheme for effective management.    This,
     however, can only be done after detailed studies on human
     usage of the wetland and detailed mapping of the use of the
     wetland habitat by birds.

     (2)   It is further recommended that detailed studies of
     relevant aspects of the Anlo-Keta wetland ecosystem should
     be commissioned to enable development of appropriate
     manaqement.strateqy  fOfthe site.                               \
     The relevant studies would include:

     (i)  Assessment of the human usage of the wetland and the
     contribution of wetland.resources in the socio-economic life
     of the communities in the proposed Ramsar site. Particular
     attention should be paid to fisheries resources, (including
     proposals for shrimp farming developments), salt mining,
     mangrove exploitation and flood plain farming.

     (ii) Complete assessment of the ornithological importance
     of the Anlo-Keta wetland and detailed mapping of important
     bird areas within the wetland.

     (iii)  Collation of the various studies undertaken on the
     Keta coastal erosion and inundation problem; and the various
     solutions proposed, with the aim of recommending appropriate
     solution.

A  team of consultants compr1s1ng a wetland ecologist, and
ornithologist, a hydrologist, and a socio-economist would be
required to undertake the study.   The expertise of a fisheries
specialist and a botanist would also be required.            The
information from the study should enable development of a more
comprehensive management strategy for the Anlo-Keta Ramsar site.
                                         95




                            .   ;   ",



            SECTION7 ;,

     .. TRAINING NEEDS, TECHNICAL
.c)iASSISTANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION
               PROGRAMME




:   :.
                                                                       96

7.       TRAINING    NEEDS, TECHNICAL   ASSISTANCE   AND   IMPLEMENTATION
                           PROGRAMME


7 1         TRAINING

The success of the coastal wetlands conservation programme being
advocated, will depend on the availability of qualified local
manpower to carry out the work. There is, however, very little
expertise for wetlands management within the Departm~nt of Game
and wildlife (GW). The limited expertise in wetland management
available in the Department has resulted mainly from training
programmes and initiatives of the Save the Seashore Birds Project
(SSBP-G).  Training should therefore be an important component
of the project and funds should be made available for the
identified training needs.

In designing or selecting training programmes, the need for
training in community relations should be borne in mind.      The
training hitherto give!} to staff of GW does not welcome or
promote local participation in wildlife management.    The statf
see themselves as "policemen", protecting wildlife resources from
the people and their approach is to keep the local communities
out of protected areas.   The management strategy advocated for
the coastal wetlands seeks to adopt a multiple use approach, and
encourages support and participation of local people.       Staff
assigned to the programme should therefore, in addition to the
training in wetlands management, be trained in community
relations.  This would ensure a change in the current attitude
of the staff and promote good working relationship with the
communities living in and around the proposed Ramsar sites.

Facilities for post graduate training in wetland management is
currently not available in Ghana. Training would therefore have
to be provided outside the country in the initial stages. The
possibility   of  developing   wetland   programmes   in   local
universities should, however, be explored when the project takes
off and there is demand for more trained personnel.

Three levels of training are recommended initially:

         (i)   1 - 2 year MSc./M Phil Course in Wetlands Management
         for the programme coordinator. such a course is presently
         not available locally, but a number of British and American
         institutions offer suitable courses.

         (ii. a)   10 - 12 week intensive short courses in wetlands
         conservation for the four site wardens.    Such courses are
         also not available locally, but suitable places can be found
         outside.   The Department of Game and Wildlife already has
         some experience of the Coastal and Marine Parks and
         Protected areas course organised by the u.S. National Park
         Service and the Rosentiel School of Marine and Atmospheric
         Science, University of Miami.

         (ii. b)    10 - 12 week short course in conservation education
                                                              97

      for the conservation education officer. The International
      Centre for Conservation Education (ICCE) u. K., offers a
      suitable programme.
      (iii) 2 - 3 week short courses in wetlands management and
      waterfowl census for the wardens, rangers and community
      wildlife assistants.    These courses should be organised
      locally.    The SSBP-G has organised similar courses in
      conjunction with the Zoology Department, University of
      Ghana, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB)
      and the International Wetland and Waterfowl Research Bureau
      (IWRB); and it should be possible to get the SSBP-G to
      organise similar training programmes for the staff.     The
      community relations training component could either be
      incorporated in this training programme; or be taken up
      separately in short training seminars.


7.2        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

A strong scie~\ific data base would be required forl effective
management of the coastal wetlands.    The areas where data are
required have been defined for each site.       The implementing
agency for the programme, the Department of Game and Wildlife,
however, has neither adequate staff nor the expertise to
undertake all the research required.      It would therefore be
necessary to bring in outside expertise. Most of the expertise
required are available locally, but allowance has also been made
for the ocassional instances where expertise may not be available
in the country.

It is recommended that a Senior Technical Advisor should be
appointed to supervise the execution of the programme. He/she
would provide technical direction, identify experts and ensure
that the required research and the management actions outlined
are efficiently executed. In addition to the Technical Advisor,
the following experts would be required    for varying terms at
different periods of the project life:
International:

Wetland Ecologist.
Local:
Hydrologist
Aquatic biologist
Fisheries/Aquaculture Specialist
Ornithologist
Vertebrate Zoologist
Botanist
Socio-economist
Development/Land use Planner.

These experts should be contracted on consultancy basis to
undertake the various baseline studies defined. There would be
a need to retain some of the experts to define and establish
                                                                     98

  mechanisms for collection and analysis of routine data on key
  biological and physical indicators of wetland health. Selection
  of the parameters for long term monitoring would depend on the
  findings of the baseline studies, but it is certain that the
. expertise    of    the    Hydrologist,     Aquatic    Biologist,
  Fisheries/Aquaculture Specialist and Ornithologist would be
  required.
It is estimated that a total of 12 man-months would be required
in foreign technical assistance and 260 man-months in local
consultancies. Details of these are provided below:

1.     INTERNATIONAL:
       Wetland Ecologist:   12 man months over the five year period.
2.     LOCAL

       (i)    senior Technical Advisor       30 man months .
     .. ~ ii) Baseline studies:
                         in table 11).
                                             7, man   mont~s   (details
        (iii) Monitoring:                   159 man months.


Table 11. Technical Assistance required for Baseline Studies

Expertise                   Man months required for
                  Muni Songor    Sakumo    Densu        Keta
                                           delta
Hydrologist       2         4       2           2       4
Aquatic
Biologist         2         4       2           2       4
Fisheries/
Aquaculture
Specialist                  3                   1       4
ornitholo
gist              2         3       2           2       4
Vertebrate
Zoologist         2
Botanist          2         2       1           1       3
Socio
Economist                   2                           4
Development
Planner                     2                           3



7.3.              PROGRAMME OF IMPLEMENTATION

The management actions recommended would need to be phased out
over a period of time for efficient execution. Table 12 outlines
the recommended implementation programme.
                                                                                            99

                Implementation programme.
A   = First half of year.
S   = Second half of year.
fMu.erals = number of persons


                                YR. I                       YR. II       YR. III   YR.IV YR.V

    ACTIVITY                    1 2     3   4   5   6   B    A       B   A     B   A   B   A



    Boundary
    De.arcation/Legal
    Establishment of Ramsar
    Sites:
        -All five sites
    Appoint.ent of National
    Wetland Expert Committee
    Appoint.ent of site
    Manage.ent Committees:
       -Muni, Sakumo,
        Densu delta, Songor

        -Anlo-Keta
    Baseline studies:
        -Muni, Sakumo,
         Densu delta

        -Songor
        -Anlo-Keta


               of Equipment
               of Vehicles
    Building Construction
    (a) Offices
        -Muni, Sakumo,                                                                           -r

        -Songor
        -Anlo-Keta
                                                                                 100 



                           YR. I                       YR.!!     YR. I!! YR.IV YR.V
                           1   2   3   4   5   6   B    A    B     A B A B
 (b) Education centre/
     Field station

     -Muni, Sakumo,
      Densu delta

     -Songor

     Anlo-Keta

 (c) Staff housing
     -Muni, Sakumo

     -Songor

     -Anlo-Keta
                                                                             ,
Ro~a construction/
Repairs
    -Muni, Sakumo

     -Songor

     -Anlo-Keta

Community infrastructure
(a) Toilet facilities
    -Muni, Sakumo
     Densu

     -Song~r


     -Anlo-Keta
(b) Drinking water
    developments
     -Song~r


Aquaculture
developments
    -Songor, Anlo-
     Keta
  Habitat/Faunal
. management

Staff Training
    -Coordinator

     -Wardens*             2

     -Education officer
   SECTION 8 


-COST ESTIMATES 

                                                                 102

                         8.      COST ESTIMATES 



8.1   INTRODUCTION
The project has a 5-year horizon. The estimates involve both capital
and recurrent expenditures for the five components, namely Programme
Co-ordination, Huni, Songor, Sakumo/Densu delta and Keta. The total
cost of the entire project comes to 2,014 million or $5.8 million.
The costs of the respective sites as a proportion of total cost are
as follows: Keta, 38%; Co-ordination, 26%; Songor, 19%; Sakumo/Densu
delta, 9%; and Huni, 8%.


8.2   CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

The capital cost of the project is the largest cost component
accounting for 91% of the total cost.     For individual sites, the
capital cost ranges from a high of 94% for Keta to a low of 85% for
Sakumo. Apar~ from Programme Co-ordination, the cap~tal component of
the four sites are made up of buildings, roads, equipment, vehicles
and habitat enhancement. Roads and habitat enhancement take up the
largest share.    It is only Sakumo which does not have a road
component.  Thus, the largest share of the capital expenditures are
a benefit to the people in the area.

The highest capital expenditures are for Keta with road construction
and habitat enhancement accounting for 40% and 37% respectively, of
the total capital cost.

Technical assistance (local and foreign) takes 51% of programme co
ordination while training is 8%. This technical assistance goes to
support the four sites since studies have to be conducted.


8.3   RECURRENT COST

The components of the recurrent cost for all sites and for programme
co-ordination are salaries and allowances, operating costs, repairs
and maintenance. Operating costs, consisting of extension and labour
cost is the largest cost component for all the 5 projects.


8.4   PROGRAMME SUSTAINABILITY
It is assumed that the recurrent cost which is about 9% of total cost
is made up of local cost component which can be supported by
government budgetary sources. capital expenditures consist almost of
foreign exchange component. What needs to be investigated in terms
of sustainability is to consider those items that have to be repaired
and those to be replaced.    The items that need to be replaced are
mainly vehicles and equipment. Using a straight line depreciation and
considering a 5-year horizon, a provision of about $64,000 a year for
the whole project with a slight adjustment to take care of inflation
should be considered.

It is worthwhile to take 1% of the remaining capital cost for repair
                                                                  103

8.5   COST TABLES

Details of costings for the various components of the project are
provided in the cost tables which follow.    The costs of the major
constructional works, namely, sluices at Sakumo and Densu delta,
erosion   and    flood control    works  at    Keta,   and   possible
sluices/embankments at Songor, have not been included in the budget
submitted. These require detailed feasibility studies before costings
can be provided.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104

Ollponent                                                BIODIVERSITY                                                                       Exchange rate                            350
        Sub-collponent                                       Coast!1,anaguent
           Costab                                            A:       Prograue co-ordinat 10n
   ..._- ..-_ ........-..... -... ------ --- ... ---- ... ----... -..-_ .. _-_ .... -... -............ --------_ .. _.. --- -- ---- ---_ ..... _.... -..... ----_ .. ---- -_ ... ---- .... _.. __ .. -............. 

                                                                  Unit              Curr Unit                                                   Project year                                     Total                                10ta1 

           Category                                                                      Cost                  --- --_ .. -_ .. ----- ..-- -- -- . --- ---- -------... _... _-------- ---.......... -............. 

              Ite.                                                                            ('000)                                                           4           5               Cedi                   US,                  US,                      S

                                                                                                                                                                                        ('000)              ('000)            ('000) 

                 -- ----_... _........ _.....................- -.....---...-----------...---- ...--------- ...----------------_..-.. -...---------------- --------_ ... _---

   ...-... __ ..... ...                                           ....

   CAPItAL 

       Equ Ipmt                                                                                                                                                                                                                           56                  4l 

          Office and furniture                                   Set                Cedi 150                                                                                             1,500                4,286 

           Co'plter                                              Set                Cedi 3250                                                                                            3,250               9.286 

          Photocopier                                            Set                USS     2                                                                                              100               2.000 

           Extn and trng                                         Set                Cedi 1150                                     .25         .25          .25         .25              14,300              40.851 


           Yehlcles                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40                  3l
             Pickup 4MD                                           Yeh               USS                20                                                                               14,000              40.000



        ,  Training: Overseas
              Coordinator
              Educat ion Off! cer
              Vardens
                                                                  Course USS
                                                                  Course USS
                                                                  Course USS
                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                       10                                                                \
                                                                                                                                                                                        14,000
                                                                                                                                                                                         3,500
                                                                                                                                                                                        14,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                            40.000

                                                                                                                                                                                                            10.000 

                                                                                                                                                                                                            40.000 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          90



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              n
           Training: local                                        COlfSe Cedi                        500                10                      10                                     10,000               28.511

           Technical assistance: International                                                                                                                                                                                         150                  101
             Metland ecology        Month USS                                                      12.5                                                                                52,500             150.000

           TechnIcal assistance: local
              Sen Techn leaI Adviser Month                                          USS              2.1                 6           6            ,                                    22,050              63.000 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       615                 m
              Baseline               Month                                          USS              2.1                50          30                                                 58,800             168.000 

              Monitoring             Month                                          USS              2.1                15          42          42           42          (2           134,505             384.300 


           BORS                                                                                                                                                                                                                        350                 m
              Foreign                                             Month             USS            12.5                             24                                                105,000             300.000
              local                                               Month             Usa              2.1                            24                                                 11,640              50.400
   ----_.... -- ....._.................. -... -..-- ...----------------------- ... ---- ...--------- ......------- ... -... _-----_ ...-...._-- ...------ . ---- --- ... -... ---- .......... 

           Total                                                                                                                                                                      465,145 1,330.100                              1331                  m

   _ -......... -_........ _... _......
    ...                                   _-----_ ........-................... _.......................-.......-................-....... -... -...-.....-... _-""--------------_ ....... _............ --- ..............   ............ _.................... _... 

   RECURRERT 

       Salaries and allovances                                                                                                                                                                                                            20 
                 l'
          Coord Inator                                                              Cedi             315                1 1 1 1 1                                                         1,815                5.351 

          Educatton Officer                                                         Cedi             350                1   1 1 1 1                                                       1,150                5.000 

          Secretary                                                                 CedI             180                1 1 1 1 1                                                           100                2.511 

          Data entry                                                                Cedi             500              .25 .25 .25 .25 .25                                                     m                1.186 

          Orlver                                                                    Cedi             180                2 2 2 2 2                                                         1,800                5.1C3 


           Repairs and .alntenance                                                                                                                                                                                                        24                  2l
             Equipment 5 I p.a.                                                     Cedi                              595 595 595 595 595                                                 2,915               8.500
             Yehlc les 1.5 I p.a.                                                    USS                                3   3 3 3 3                                                       5,250              15.000

           Operat fng costs                                                                                                                                                                                                             123                   81
              Monitoring studIes                                                     USS                          29.82 32.16 20.16 20.16 20.16                                         43,011             123.060


           Total                                                                                                                                                                        58,246             166.411                      166                 In
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         105
    CORponent                                                  BIODIVERSITY                            Exchange rate                                                                             350 

       Sub-co'ponent                                           Coasta1 lanagellent 

          Costab                                               B:       Muni lagoon develop.ent plan 

    .......   -_......-........-- .......................--..........-.......-.... _-_ ..... -_ ...-...-.......... -----_ ... _--_ ... _-_ .... _------- ...------_ ...... -- ...... --- ..... --_ ...                      -oo""--....... --_........
                                                               Unit               Curr             Unit                                  Project year                                       Total                          Total
                 Category                                                                          Cost .. ----- ... -........ -- ..... -- ...... ----_ ........... _- ...... -.... ------------- ------- ... --- ... --
                    Itel                                                                      ('ODD)                                                                                   Cedi                US,            US,                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                    ('ODD) (' 000) ('DOD)
    -- ..----. ------_... _---...-------_........-................----                                       - --------_
                                                                                              ... _--_ ...... ...          ... _ -........
                                                                                                                                .....                 ------
                                                                                                                                                        ... _ ........... _-_ .... _---_ .. -- ..... -- ........ - ... _-- ... _-- ............   --
    CAPITAL
        Buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                    83          m
            Eduen centre/office 1"2                                                Cedi              80               120                                                                    9,600 21.429
            Stiff Iccolodat Ion 1"2                                                Cedi              80               100                                                                    8,000 22.851
            Observat Ion posts  10                                                 Cedi             800                 2                                                                    2,400 U51
            Sanitation anlts    Units                                              Cedi             900                 2                                                                    9,000 25.114

                 Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                             125          m
                    Const net Ion                              kl                  Cedi 12500                         2.5                                                                  31,250               89,286
                    Upgrading                                  h                   Cedi 2500                          2.5 2.5                                                              12,500               35.114

                  Equlplent                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Il
                    Office and hrniture                        Set                 Cedi             150                                                                                              150          2.143
                    furniture                                  Set                 Cedi             100                                                                                              100             .286
\                   Educd Ion/training                         Set                 Cedi             m                                                                                                585          1.611
                    field                                      Set                 Cedi             225                                                       \                                      615          I.m
                    Monitoring                                 Set                 Cedi             380                                                                                              380          1.086

                 Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                                            51          III
                   Pickup 4WD                                  Yeh                 US,     20                                                                                               1,000 20.000
                   Motorcyc les                                Yeh                 Cedi 400                                                                                                   400 1.143
                   Tipper truck                                Yeh                 Cedi 10000                                                                                              10,000 28.511
                   Boat                                        Yeh                 Cedi 500                                                                                                   500 l.m

              Habitat enhancelent                                                                                                                                                                                                  154          m
                  Boundary demcat Ion list                                 Cedi 20000                             I                                                   20,000 51.143
                  Enhanceent                             list              Cedi 8280                              1                                                      8,280 23.651
                  Erosion control pttg Ha                                  Cedi                 38              80 80 80 BO 80                                        15,000 42.851
                  Restocking                             list              Cedi 150                                           10 20 20 20                             10,500 30.000
                                                                                                         --
    .......... _----- .... _-_ ... _-----_ ........ _.. _... _--_ ... -_...... _-_ ........... _.... ......... -_ ... _- ... _---_ ... _-- . ---_ .. _------"" ... _- ........ --_ ... _-_ ..... _--                        -_ ..... ----------

              Total                                                                                                                                                 146,920 m.111                                                  420          86l

    --------------------------------------------------------_..... _--_ ... _------ ...... _--_... --......-----------_ .. __ .. _.. - ------------_...
    mURRE.T
       Salaries and allowances                                                                                                                                                                                                        15           31
          warden               Year                                                Cedi             m                                  1            1             1                           1,815               5.351
          Rangers              Year                                                Cedi              300                               1            I             1                           1,500               4,286
          Drivers              Year                                                Cedi              180                               2            2             2                           1,800               5.143

                 Ope rat ing costs                                                                                                                                                                                                    11           21
                    labour                                      LS                 Cedi             100                                                                                      3.500              10.000
                     btens Ion costs                            list               Cedi              50                                                                                              250             .114

                 Repa Irs and laintenance                                                                                                                                                                                            41           as
                    Buildings 1 I p.a.                          Year        Cedi                                    210 m 290 290 m                                                         1,334                 3.811
                    Roads                                       Year        Cedi                  50                2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5                                                           13              .036
                    Equlpmt 5 I p.a.                            Year        Cedi                                    120 120 120 120 120                                                          598             1.101
                    Yehlcles 1.5 I p.a.                         Year        Cedi                                 1343 1343 1343 1343 1343                                                  6,113                19.119
                    Boundar, 1.lnt                              Year        Cedi 1125                                  1 1                         1              1 1                      5,625                16.011
    -----_... _-- ............._--_ .......-........-----_                                                                                                                                        
                                                                   ... _----_ ... __ ... _- ............ _-_ ...... -_ .....-.............. _... _-- ...... __ ..... _--_ .....  ..... _-- ...... .. -......      - _- -- ... ---- ......-... _ -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ... ...                           ....

                 Total                                                                                                                                                                   23,201                 66.304               66          14l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                106
eotponent                                                        BIODIVERSITY                            Exchange rate                                                                                                                                    350
    Sab-colponent                                                Coastal magmnt
       Costab                                                    C:       Songor lagoon developlent plan
..... ------ ............ --- ..... --_........... __ .. -- -................... -_ ... -....... -- ... --- -... -...... -.. --_ ..... _- --- .. _........... -. - _........ _................ -_ ...... --_ ....... _- ................. -. __ ........ -

                                                                                                                                                                  ...
                                                          Unit                  turr  Unit                                                    Project year                                        Total                                Total
        Cate,ory 
                                                                               Cost -... ---- .. ---- ...------- ................... -... _- --_ ... -... -- .. ---- ... -.--- - _-- ....................      .....
           lUI                                                                              ('ODD)                                                                                          Cedi                        US,            US,               I

                                                                                                                                                                                       ('ODD) ('000) (' 000)

,-------_._--_.... --_...........-...-.............................-............................. -........... _..............-_.......... ,., ...-...-_...-... _--_.... __ ......_............... -............-...... __.. ... ..._-_ ..._....... _.. _-

CAPITAl
    'IndlAgs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        162            151 

        Field centre                                             ,"2                    Cedi                       80                       m                                                                                                    19,200                        54,851 

       Staff aceolodatlon                                        ."2                    CedI                       80                        100                                                                                                  8,000                        22.851 

       Obserratlon posts                                         10                     Cedi                      800                               2               I                                                                             2,400                         6.851 

       Sanitation units                                          Units                  Cedi                      900                               16             14                                                                            21 ,000                       11.143 


         loads                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      514            (]I 

            cOlStnct Ion
            Up,radlng/repatr                                     ,.
                                                                 II                     Cedi 12500
                                                                                        Cedi 2500
                                                                                                                                                    10
                                                                                                                                                    12             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               125,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            351.143 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            151.143 


         EillfpHllt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18                 21 

             Office and furnltare                                Set                    Cedi                      150                                I                                                                                                 150                      2.143 

         "\  laboratory                                          Set                    USJ                        10                                1                                                                                               3,500                     10.000 

             Ed.catlon/tralntng                                  Set                    Cedi                      585                                1                                                                       \                            585                   1.611 

             Field                                               Set                    Cedi                      m                                  3                                                                                                    615                   1.929 

             KOIIUorfng                                          Set                    Cedi                      380                                2                                                                                                    160                   2.111 


        'ehlcles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53                 51 

           Pfclap (VB                                            Yeh                    US,     20                                                                                                                                                 1,000                       20.000 

           .otorcycles                                           Veh                    Cedi (00                                                                                                                                                      800                       2.286 

           Tfpper truck                                          Veh                    Cedi 10000                                                                                                                                                10,000                       28.511 

           Boat, trailer                                         Veh                    Cedi 750                                                                                                                                                     150                        2.m 


         Sabltat enhancement                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        256            m

           10ledary delarcatlon                                                         Cedi 20000                                                   2                                                                                            40,000                    114,286 

           ErostoR control pltg                                   ~a                    Cedi 8280                                                    6                                                                                            49,680                    141.9(3 


--------_....-......-......... -...........----_.....-_...........-...----..... _........ __ -............... _.......-...-..... -.................-.........-- .........--_......... _-_ ...... -... -_ .... _... _...... _...-.....
                                                                                                                                             ....

        10tll                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  351,1001,003.m                                                     1003             m
---------------_....._...-...__ ... __ ...-..----... _--- ... _- .. _......-_..... _- .......... _--- ........ -- ...-....-..-...... -..... _ -_...... --..... _-- ... --_ ...-.... _...                                        ....                                                                   -_ ... _....... -_ ....... _.....
IECIRREIT
    Salaries and allowances                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           19             U
       lardea               Year                                                         Cedi                     315                                1                 1                                                        1                    1,815                        5.351"
       IlI,ers              Year                                                         Cedi                     300                                2                 2                                                        2                    3,000                        8.511
       Drivers              Year                                                         Cedi                     180                                2                 2                                                        2                    1,800                        5.143

        OperlUe, costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21                 21
          labolr                                                  lS                     Cedi                      100                               2                                    2                   2                 2                    1,000                     20.000
          Extm10n                                                 Ust                    Cedi                       50                               2                                    2                    2                2                       500                     1.429

    Repairs lid lalntenance                                                                                                                                                           (6 
 41
        IIndll,s          1 , ,.a.               Cedi                           432 566 566 566 566                                             2,696            1.103 

        loads                                    Cedi             50                10 10 20 10 20                                                 10               .200 

        Eqlfpeelt        5 , ,.a.                Cedi                            139 139 139 139 139                                              U3             1.919 

       'ebleles 1.5 , p.a.                       Cedi                         1391 1391 1391 1391 1391                                          6,956 19.815 

        Bondary lalnt                            Cedi 1125                            1              1           1        1       1             5,625 16.011

-----"".-_... _--_ ..._-_.....---------------_ .... _. _-_ ..... __ ...-... --_ ... -... -... _...........-...---_ ....._--- . ---- ... -.... ------.. -_ ..... _...-... _- -_ ..... -... _- ...-.......
     Total                                                                                                                                     30,215 86.328                           86           n
                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ K> _ _ _ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _ ... _   .. _   ..... _   . . _ _ ... _   ... _ _ .... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ . . _ _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _   . . . . . . . . . _ _ ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ... _ _ ... _   ..... _ _ ,. _   ... _ _   


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ....   _......... _- ... -- ...   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        107
Component                                                                    B00 lVE RS tTY
                                                                              1                                       Exchange rite                                                                                                                         350
   Sub-component                                                             Coastal lanagelent
       Costab                                                                0:        SakUlO/Dmu de ltl deve loplent plan
-_........... _-- ......... --...... --------_......._..... _-_ .. _.............. ----_ .......... .....-................-...... _- ........-...... -........... _-_ ...... _-_ ............ __ ... ""---.......... - .. -_ .. _.. _- ...... --- .. 

                                                                                                                                         -",.




                                                                             Unit                     Cm Unit                                                                        Project ym                                                                 Total                                                       Total
                                                                                                                                         -... ---- .....--- .. _---_.. --- .........-............ - --- ... -........ -- ... ----- ...... -- --- .. ---- ... ---- ...
              Category
                 Hel
                                                                                                           Cost
                                                                                                        ('000)                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                           Cedi                             US,                             US,                       ,

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ('000)                           ('000)                         ('0001
_ _ ...... _ _ _ _ . . _ _ ...... _ _ ........... _ _ _ . . . . . . . . . . . _ _ . . . . . . . _ _ . . _ _ _ . . . . _ _ _ ........ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ..... _ _ _ _ ........ _ _ _ ... _   . . _ _ _ _ ... _   . . . . . . _ _ _ . . . . . _ _ _ _ . . . . . . . . OJ . . . . . . . _ _ _ _ _ _   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......   _- ... _-_ ....._---

CAPHAL
    Chi I lIorts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               199           391
       Yisltor centre                                                        .'2                      Cedi                   80                  615                                                                                               54,000                        1540286
       Staff accOIodat ion                                                   ."2                      Cedi                   80                  100                                                                                                8,000                         22.851
       Obsenat ion posts                                                     10                       Cedi                  800                    1                   2                                                                            4,000                         11.421
       Sanitation units                                                      Units                    Cedi                  goo                    2                   2                                                                            3,600                         10.286

              Equiplent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10             21
                Office aid fmitare                                           Set                      Cedi                  150                        1                                                                                                150                            2.m
                Educat Ion/training                                          Set                      Cldl                  m                          2                                                                                              1,110                            3.343
                 Field                                                       Set                      Cedi                  m                          3                                                                                                     615                       1.129
                KonltorlRg                                                   Set                      Cedi                  380                        2                                                                                                    160                        2.111

              Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24             5'
                Pickup 4WD                                                    Yeh                     US,                    20                                                                                                                       1,000                         20.000
\               Kotorcycles                                                   Yeh                     Cedi                  400                                                                              \                                          800                          2.216
                Boat, trailer                                                 Yeh                     Cedi                  150                                                                                                                         150                          2.143

              Nab it at enhance.nt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             186           m
                 Boundary dumat ion LIst                                                              Cedi 20000                                       2                                                                                           40,000 114.286
                  Enhanment         Ust                                                               Cedi 8280                                        2                                                                                           16,560 41.314
                 Aquaculture        pond                                                              Cedi 8500                                        1                                                                                            8,500 2U86

              Feasibility studies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11            31
                Eaglnerlng/hydro logy lonths                                                          US,                   2.1                        8                                                                                              5,880                          16.800
""' ...    ............--_...... __ .............__ ......--_........._----- ............. _-_ ......._-_.................... -- ..._................ _-_..... _--_ ...  ... _......_--_ ..... _- ........ ---_ ..-- .........-- ---............ ... _............
              Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                             152, US                          m.551                                         436           m
               _-_ ........... _-_ ... __ ......_.................. ...........-... _......  ........... ........................  ...-.................. ........ --_..................---- ....... _------- .......... -- .. ...... .... --......  .. ...........
............ .........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""

RECURREIT
    Sa laries and aHovlnces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21             41
        Warden              Year                                                                       Cedi                 315                        1                I               1                 1                                           1,815                             5.351
        Asst Educ officer   Year                                                                       Cedi                 300                        1                1               1                 1                                           1,500                             4.286
                    Ran9ers                                                   Yur                      Cedi                 300                        2                2               2                2                                            3,000                             8.511
                     Drivers                                                  Year                     Cedi                 180                         1               I                1                1                                             900                             2.511

              Operat Ing costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21            51
                 labour                                                       lS                       Cedi                 100                        2              2                2                2                 2                            1,000                         20.000
                extension                                                     lS                       Cedi                  50                      10              10               10               10                10                            2,500                          l.ln

              Repal nand .atntenance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30             n
                 Bundings 1 I p.a.                                            Year                 646 680 696 696 696
                                                                                                       Cedi                                                                3,414                  9.154
                 Equlplent 5 I p렁                                           Year                     Cedi
                                                                                                    168 168 168 168 168                                                          819              2,396
                 Yehlcles 1.5 I p.a.                                          Year                  118 118 m 118 118
                                                                                                       Cedi                                                                      589              1.682
                 Boundary IIlnt                     Year                             1125             1Cedi         1 1 1 1                                                5,625 1&.011
... _ _--- ... _--- .... _--- ........ -- ...... ---..... _-_ ..... _--_ ... _-_ ...... _--- ....---_ ..... __ ... _-_ .....--_ ........ _-- ....... -- ........ _-_ ............-...... _- .. -_ ... -.........
     ........                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "" .........   -............-.......-
           Total                                                                                                                                                        21,242 11.133                                                                                                                                            18           151
...... _ _ _ _ "" ... _ _ _ _ _ ... a> . . _   ... _ _ _ _ ...... _ _ ......... _ _ _ "" _ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ..... _ _ _ _ ..... _ _ _ . . . . _ ... _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ........ ""_.". ...... _ _ . . . . . . . _ ...... _ _ _ ... 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..-.......... -...... _.. _--
Grand total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      119.681                          513.390                                      513          1001

. . _--.._----_....-.. . . '*--.......--_.. . _---..--_ . . -----.. ----_.. ---.....-_.. . . . ---....._--.. -----.. . . -.. . . . . . . . . . . _. -- ""'.= ... "",--- ... - ........--..... ------ ........ -........... 

                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             t08
COlponent                                                                      BIODIYERSlTY                                                                                                    Ex change rate                                       350 

    Sub-component                                                              Coastal lanagelent 

       Costab                                                                  E:       leta lagoon development plan 

.. _- ........... _- ... _- ... -_ ... _- ... __.. -..._-- ... ---_ .. --_ ..... _-_.. _-_ ...... _-_ ... _-_ ..... _------_ .. _--_ ... _------ ... ---_ ..... _-_ ... -- ......... --_ .... _- -- ... "'----------
                                                                               Unit                     Carr Unit                                                                        Project year                                                    TCltal                                    TCltal
          Category                                                                                             Cost                          --- _...... ----_ ...... _...... -_ .. ---- -----_ ... .....-_... -... -............ __ ... _- ...... -...... _-_ ... _--_ ........

             Itel                                                                                           ('000)                                                          2               3                 4                                   Cedi                    US,                    USS                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ('ODD)                    ('000)                (' 000)
........ _-_ ..... _--_ ... __ .. _--_ .......... __ ... _-_ .... _--_ ...                            _---- .........----_ ..... _.....-......... _...... __ ... __ ....... _--_ ...-----...... _-- ............ _----_....-........... ......--_ ......----- ......
CAPITAL
    Buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m               141
        Fie ld centre                                                          1'2                       Cedi                   80                   320                                                                                     25,600                  13.143
        Staff accolodat Ion                                                    1"2                       Cedi                   80                   200                                                                                     16,000                  45.114
        Obsenat Ion posts                                                      10                        Cedi                  800                    10                                                                                      8,000                  22.m
        SanitatioA units                                                       Units                     Cedi                  900                    40                 20                                                                  54,000                 154,286

          Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    851             401
             Constrict Ion                                                      tl                       Cedi 12500                                     10               10                                                               250,000                   114.286
             upgrading/repair                                                   kI                       Cedi 2500                                      20                                                                                 50,000                   142.851

           Eqalplent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  18             11
             Office and furnttm                                                Set                       Cedi                  150                         2                                                                                   1,500                     4,286
             Educat lon/training                                               Set                       Cedi                  585                         2                                                                                   1,110                     3.343
             Field                                                             Set                       CedI                  225                         9\                                                                                  2,025                     5.186                                                     \
             Ronttorlng                                                        Set                       Cedi                  380                         4                                                                                   1,520                     4.343

           Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  61              as
             Plctup 4VD                                                         Yeh                      US$     20                                        1                                                                                  1,000                    20.000
             Rotorcycles                                                        Yeh                      Cedi 400                                          8                                                                                  3,200                      '.143
             T1pper tract                                                       Yeh                      Cedi 10000                                        1                                                                                 10,000                   28.511
             Boat ,outboard                                                     Yeh                      Cedi 1250                                         1                                                                                  1,250                    3.511

           HabUat enhaRcelent                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      808             m
             Boundary delarcatfon                                                                        Cedi 20000                                      10                                                                               200,000 511.429
              ErosIon control planting                                                                   Cedi 8280                                       10                                                                                82,800 236.511

----- .........-............-......-- ...............................---..----- .........----------- ... -------- ...._-- ......_- ...... _-- .. __ ............................. -_ ...-............ -................ -- ...... ---_ ...... -..........
           Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                          114,065 2,040.186                                      2040              m
--_ ..... _------_ ... _-------... --_ .....---_ ......__....._-_... _------_ ... _--_ .. _-_ ... _--_ ... _..-..---- ... ---....--- ..... -------...... _--......... --- -...... _----------
RECURRElT
    Salarles and allomees                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28              11
       Varden                                                                                            Cedi                  m                            1               1                1                1              1                 1,815                    5.351
       Rangers                                                                                           Cedi                   300                        4                4                4                4              4                 ',000                   11.143
       Drivers                                                                                           Cedi                   180                        2                2                2                2              2                 I,BOO                    5.143

           Operatlng costs
             labour                                                             lS                       Cedi                   100                                         4                4                4                              14,000                    40.000                         43             21
             Ellensloa                                                          list                     Cedi                    50                                         4                4                4                               1,000                     2.851

           Repairs and IIlnteRlAce                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    58             31
             Bundlngs 1 I p.a.                                                                           Cedi                                        856 1036 1036 1036 1036                                                                   5,000                   14,286
             Roads                                                                                       Cedi                      50                 10 20 20 20 20                                                                               90                    .251
             Equlp.ant 5 I p.a.                                                                          CedI                                        311 311 311 311 311                                                                       1,554                    4.439
              Vehicles 1.5 I p.a.                                                                        Cedi                                       1609 1609 1609 1609 1609                                                                   8,044                   22.982
             Boundary lalnt                                                                              Cedi                1125                      1 1 1 1 1                                                                               5,i25                   16.011
        - _----- -...-.----........ _------..........------ ......_-- ...... -- .....--_... _--_ ... _-_ ...... _-- ...--------_. -- .......--........... -... _--_ .. _...... ---.............. ...........
......... ............                 ....                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,..

           Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                             44,988                 128.536                        129               n
 ... _ _ _ ..... _ _ _ _ _ _ . . . . _ _ ... _ ... _ ......... _ 0 ... "" ... _ _ _ ........ _ . . . . . . . _ _ _ _ ... _ _ ..... _ _ ........ _ _ .. _ ... _ _ ... _ ..... _ _ ..... _ ............ _   . . _ _ _ ... _ _ _ _ ...... _ _ ... _ .......... _ _ _ _ ..... _ _ ........ 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           _................. --_ .... _..
Grand total                                                                                                                                                                                                                               159,053 2,168.121                                      2169             1001
                                                                               109

8.3             SUPPORTING TABLES FOR COST ESTIMATES 

Table 8.1      Office Furniture and Equipment (Set) 


Item                            Quantity        Unit Cost   Total Cost
                                                Cedis       Cedis


Manual Typewriter               1               250,000     250,000
Filing Cabinets                 2               100,000     200,000

Office Furniture

        1.     Desk             2                55,000     110,000
        2.     Chairs           6                 8,333      50,000
        3.     Book Shelf       2                20,000      40,000

Sundries                                                    100,000

                                Gran~   Total               750,000             \

Table    8.2     Computer Equipment (Set)

Item                   Quantity                 Unit Cost   Total Cost
                                                Cedis       Cedis

UPS                         1                     325,000     325,000
Computer                    1                   1,625,000   1,625,000
Printer                     1                     650,000     650,000
Software                                          325,000     325,000
Others                                            325,000     325,000
                                        Grand Total         3,250,000



Table 8.3        Training Equipment (Set)
Item                                    Quantity      Unit Cost   Total Cost
                                                      Cedis       Cedis

Film Projector Unit
and Public Address System                 1           2,600,000   2,600,000
Slide Projector                           1             650,000     650,000
Screen                                    1             130,000     130,000
Generator                                 1             650,000     650,000
Binoculars                               20              32,500     650,000
Telescopes                                5             130,000     650,000
Photocopier                               1             650,000     650,000
Camera                                    1             325,000     325,000
Education Books                         100               6,500     650,000
Sundries                                                            195,000

                                Grand Total           7,150,000


                                                                  110

    Table   8.4   In-country Training
    Item                                         Cost
                                                 Cedis
    Tuition                                      4,290,000
    Accommodation                                   90,000
    Night Allowance (Participants)                  30,000
    Transport (Participants)                        10,000
    Transport (Course)                             120,000
                               Grand Total       4,540,000




    Table   8.5   Training/Education Equipment (Set)

    Item               Quantity      Unit Cost   Total Cost
                   1                 Cedis       Cedis
                                                              \
    Display Shelving       4          20,000      80,000 

    Display Cabinet        2         100,000     200,000 

    Desk                   1          55,000      55,000 

    Chairs                30           8,333     250,000 





    Table 8.6
                               Grand Total




                   Field Equipment (Set)
                                                 585,000




    Item               Quantity      Unit Cost   Total Cost
                                     Cedis       Cedis
    Cutlass                1            3,250      3,250
    Boots                  1            6,500      6,500
    Water bottles/
    Utensils               1           3,250       3,250
    Haversack              1          13,000      13,000
    Telescope              1         130,000     130,000
    Binoculars             1          32,500      32,500
    Sundries                          39,000      39,000
                                     Grand Total 227,500
                                                            111

Table   8.7    Monitoring Equipment (set)

Item                Quantity      Unit Cost    Total Cost
                                  Cedis        Cedis

Salinity Meter          1          130,000     130,000
Water Level
Gauge                    1           6,500       6,500
Weather Station          1         195,000     195,000
Sample Bottles      1,500              325     487,500
                             Grand Total       819,000


Table   8.8    Boundary Demarcation

Item                Quantity       Unit Cost   Total Cost
                    km             Cedis       Cedis

Bqundary Description
add Survey        48.5             162,500      7,88\,250
Pillars           40.0             100,000      4,000,000
Boundary
Clearance         48.5               6,700        324,950
Sign Boards       10.0              60,000        500,000
Fire Break        13.5              60,000        810,000

                             Grand Total       13,516,200



Table   8.9    Habitat Enhancement/Management

Item                Quantity       Unit Cost   Total Cost
                                   Cedis       Cedis

Nature Trails       4.5 km           6,700         30,150
Border Planting     24 km          187,500      4,500,000
Habitat
Enhancement         100 ha          37,500      3,750,000
Erosion control
Planting            400 ha          37,500     16,000.000
                             Grand Total       23,280,150


Table   8.10    Boundary Maintenance (Per year)

Item                Quantity       Unit Cost   Total Cost
                    km             Cedis       Cedis

Boundary
Clearance           48.5             6,700       324,950
Fire Break          13.5            60,000       810,000

                             Grand Total       1,134,950
                                                              112

                           REFERENCES


Altenburgh, W. Engelmoer, M. Mes R. & Piersma, T. 1982. Wintering
     Waders on the Banc d' Arguin, Mauritania.     Report of The
     Netherlands Ornithological Mauritanian Expedition 1980.
     stichting Veth totsteum aan Waddenonderzock. Leiden.
Agyepong, G. T. 1976. Erosion and pollution on the eastern coast
     of Ghana. Report sUbmitted to the Environmental Protection
     Council, Accra.
Agyepong, G. T., Yankson,P. W.K. and Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y. 1990.
     Coastal Zone Indicative Management Plan.  Report prepared
     for the Environmental Protection council.Accra. .
Biney, C.A. 1982. preliminary survey of the state of pollution
     of the coastal environment of Ghana. Oceanologica Acta
     (Special volume), pp. 39 - 43.

Biney, C.A 1986. Preliminary phy~ico-chemical studies of lagoons    ,
     along the Gulf of Guinea in Ghana, Tropical Ecology 27, 147
       156.

Dorbu, V. L. 1985.  .Engineering review and recommendation for
     Solving the Keta Sea erosion problem.  Dorbu & Associates
     Clairton PA 15025 47 p. Illustrated.

Dugan, P.J. 1990.   Wetland Conservation. A Review of Current
     Issues and Reguired Action. 96p. IUCN.

Gordon, C. 1987. coastal lagoons of Ghana. In M.J. Burgis and
     J.J. Symoens Ed. African wetlands and shallow water bodies

Gordon, C. 1989.     Traditional fisheries management in the
     Amansuri Wetland. Ghana. In: Marchand, M. and Udo De Haes,
     H.A.  (Eds) The People's Role in Wetland Management.
     Proceedings of the International Conference, Leiden, The
     Netherlands.
Grimes, L. 1974. Radar tracks of Palaearctic waders departing
     from the coast of Ghana in spring. Ibis, ~, 165-171.

Grimes, L. 1987. The Birds of Ghana, an annotated check-list.
     B.O.U. Check-list No.9, 276p

Kwei, E.A. 1978. Food and spawning activity of Caranx hippos (L)
     off the coast of Ghana. J. nat. Hist., 12: 195 - 215.

Macdonald, M.A. 1978. Seasonal changes in numbers of waders at
    Cape Coast, Ghana. Bull.Nigerian Orn. Soc., 14 (45), 28-35

Mensah, M.A., 1979. The hydrology and fisheries of the lagoons
     and estuaries of Ghana. Mar. Fish. Res. Rep. No.7.
                                                                    113

     Ministry   of  Agriculture,    1989.  Medium-Term    Agricultural
          Development Plan (MTADP). Fisheries Sector Action Programme.
          Ministry of Agriculture. Accra.

     Nedeco, 1982. outfall Keta Lagoon. Delft Hydraulics Laboratory
          report on Model investigations.   Report M 1613.  Ministry
          of Foreign affairs of the Netherlands, Directorate General
          for international Cooperation p.

     Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y. 1988. Three years of saving Seashore Birds in
          Ghana. SSBP-G .publ. No.2.

     Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y. 1991.    Conservation of coastal lagoons in
          Ghana:   The traditional approach.   Landscape and Urban
          Planning. 20. 41-46

     Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y. 1991. Seasonal changes in the importance of
          Coastal wetlands in Ghana for. wading Birds. Biological
          conservation 57.

     Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y. (In preJs). Multiple use approach to coastalt
          wetland conservation: case studies from Ghana Proceedings
          of   the   International   Seminar   on   Coastal   Wetlands
          Conservation and Coastal Zone Planning, their contribution
          to sustainable Development in West Africa, Senegal, November
          1987.

     Ntiamoa-Baidu, Y.  & Hepburn, I.R. 1988. Wintering waders in
          coastal Ghana. RSPB Cons. Review. Z:85-8.

     Pauly, D. 1975. On the ecology of a small West African lagoon
          Ber. dt wiss. Komm. Meeresforsch 24: 46 - 62.

     Scura, E. E. 1988. Ghana Shrimp farming for Export. . Mission
          report. Project No GHA/50/08.ITC/DTC/88/898.

     Smit,     Cor. J.    & Piersma, T. 1989.       Numbers,. midwinter
             distribution and migration of wader population using the
             East Atlantic Flyway. In Flyways and Reserve Networks for
             Water Birds. ed. by H. Boyd & J.Y. Pirot. IWRB Spec. Publ,
             No.9, 24-63.
     SSBP-G, 1987. Draft management plans for three coastal sites in
          Ghana. Unpublished.

t    Statistical Services, 1989. 1984 Population census of Ghana .
.i        Report on Localities by Local Authorities. statistical
i         Services, Accra, Ghana.
t:
~    Toth, E.F., and Toth, K.A.  1976.  Coastal National Park site
          selection survey. Dept. of Game and Wildlife, Mimeo.

     Tahal Consulting Engineers 1986. An appraisal of a flood control
          outfall for Keta Lagoon.     Report prepared for Diamond
          Shamrock Africa petroleum Accra.
                  114




APPENDICES   ..
                                                                                                115
APPeNDIX 1.   list of seashore bird species recorded at the proposed RlIIIISor sites.
        SPECIES                             Hun'    Songor   Sakuno Densu Delta         Keta

SHOREBIRDS (WADERS)
Painted snipe
Rostratula benghalensls                                                                 +
African Jacana
Act~!lornls afri~ana                                +        +        +                 +
Oystercatcher
HaematODUS ostralegus                       +                         +
Black-winged atilt
HlmgntODUS himgntOPUS                       +       +        +        +                 +
Avocet, BSfUtvlr2stra avo쬮tta              +       +        +        +                 +
Senegal thlcknee
Bu[hinus senegalensls                       +       +
Collared pratlncole
glarsgla eratf~ola                          +       +        +        +                 +
Senegal wattled plover
V!Dellus senegalensis                       +       +        +                          +
Spur-winged plover
Vane! lYli seinosus
Golden plover,
Pl~lalis aericarla
Grey plover
Plyxlaljs sgyatgrola
                        a
                                            +       +
                                                             +

                                                             +

                                                             +        +
                                                                                        +



                                                                                        +
                                                                                            ,
Kentfsh plover
Charadrlus alexandrinus
Little ringed plover
Charadrfus dubius                                   +
Ringed plover
Charadrius hiati~ula                        +       +        +        +                 +
Kittlftz's sandplover
CharadrlYli e!cua[ius                       +       +        +        +                 +
White-fronted sandplover
Charadrlus margjnatus                       +       +        +        +                 +
Black-tailed godwit
Limosa limosa                               +       +        +        +                 +
Bar-tailed godwit
Llmo!1 laDDOnica                            +       +        +        +                 +
Whhbrel Nllllenjus phaeoeus                 +       +        +        +                 +
Curlew NlllleniYli argyata                  +       +        +        +                 +
Spotted redshank
Tringa erxthroDUS                           +       +        +        +                 +
Redshank Tringa totanus                     +       +        +        +                 +
Harsh sandpiper
Tring! sta9na~ills '                        +       +        +        +                 +
Greenshank Trlnga nebularia                +        +        +        +                 +
Lesser Yellow Legs
Tri!l!Ja flavle!s
Green sandpiper
I[I[!9a 2Shrol2!:/!                                                   +
"ood sandpiper
Trl[!9a slareola                            +       +        +        +                 +
Terek sandpiper Xenus cfoereus                                                          +
Conmon sandpiper
6ctltfs h~leucos                           +        +        +        +                 +
Pectora sandpiper
calldels melanotos                                           +
Broad billed sandpiper
Llmicola falclnellus                       +        +                                   +
Turnstone'Arenaria intereres               +        +        +        +                 +
Conmon snipe
Ga!llnago sallinago                                          +                          +
Knot Calidrls canutus                      +        +        +        +                 +
Sanderling Calldrls alba                    +       +        +        +                 +
Little stint Calldris minuta               +        +        +        +                 +
                                                                116

APPENDIX 1 CONT.
 Tetmlinck's stint 

 Calfdrfs tetmlfnckfi                         +

 Dunlfn Calfdrls alpina              +   +         +       +

 Curlew sandpiper 

 Calidrfs ferrusinea                 +   +    +    +       +

,Vhite-rumped sandpiper 

 Calldris fuscicoilis 

 Buff-breasted sandpiper 

 Tr~lt!~ !ubruficoilis                   +

 Ruff Philomachus pusnax                 +    +    +       +


TERIS All) GUlLS
Gull-billed tern
Gelochelldon nfloticus                   +         +       +
Caspian tern Sterna caspla           +   +         +       +
Royal tern Sterna maxima             +   +    +    +       +
lesser crested tern
Sterna bengalensfs
Sandwfch tern
Sterna sandvicensls                  +   +    +    +       +
Roseate tern Sterna dougallii        +   +    +    +       +
Common tern 'Sterna hfrundo          +   +    +    +       +
Sooty tern Ster~fuscata              +   +    +    +
Damara tern Ste     balaenarum
little tern St!rna albifrons         +
                                         +
                                         +    +    +
                                                       \   +
Vhlskered tern
Chlidonias h~ridus                       +         +       +
Black tern Chlidonias niser          +   +    +    +       +
Vhite-winged black tern
Chlidonia~ leucopterus                        +    +       +
Brown noddy Anous stolfdus               +                 +
little gull larus minutus                +    +    +       +
Black headed gull larus ridibundus   +   +    +    +       +
Grey headed gull
larus cfrrocePhalus
lesser black backed gull
larus fuscus                         +   +    +    +       +
Skimmer B~hQes flavirostris              +    +    +
Pomarlne skua
Ster~o[arlus oomarfnus                             +       +
Arctic skua
쬽ercorarius ~rasiticus
 HER(ltS AND DUClCS
 little grebe
 Tach~ptus ruficollis                         +    +       +
 long-tailed cormorant
 ~halacrocorax africanus                 +    +    +       +
 little bfttern
 Ixobrychus mfnutus                      +    +    +       +
 Dwarf bi ttern
 IxObrychus sturmil                           +    +       +
 Squacco heron
 Ardeola rallofdes                            +    +       +
 Green-backed heron
 Butorfdes strfatus                  +   +    +    +       +
 Black heron
 Esretta ardesfaca                       +    +    +       +
 Night heron
 Nyctfcorax nyctfcorax                                     +
 Western reef heron
 Egretta Sularls                     +   +    +    +       +
 little egret
 Egretta garzetta                    +   +    +    +       +
 Yellow-billed egret
 Egretta intermedia                           +    +       +
 Great Vhite egret
 Egretta alba                        +   +    +    +       +
                                                      117

    APPENDIX 1 CONT.
    Purple heron Ardea purpurea           +   +   +
    Grey heron Ardea cinerea      +   +   +   +   +
    Cattle egret Bubulcus ibis
    Glossy ibis
    Plegadts fllcinetlus                  +       +
.   Sacred ibis
    Thresklornls aethloeica               +       +
    Spoon bill elatalea alba          +   +       +
    White necked stork
    Clcon'a eefscopY!
    Wood Ibts lbts tbis
    Fulvous tree duck
    Dendroc~na btcolor                    +       +
    White-faced tree duck
    D~roc~na vlduata                  +   +   +   +
    Northern pintail Anas acuta           +       +
    Garganey Anas querquedula             +       +
    Shoveler Anas clypeata                +
    Teal Ants capensis                    +       +
    Conmon pochard
    Aythya ferina
    Conmon shetduck
    Iadornt tadorna

    AI2e2chen aegyetfaca
                         '\
    Pygmy goose Hettapus urltus
    Egyptian goose
                                                  ,
                                                  +
    Spur-winged goose
    Plectroet![us gambensls                       +
    Pink backed pelican
    Pelecanus rufescens               +           +
    Finfoot Podica senegalensis
                                                                   118

i   APPENDIX 2.     criteria for identifying wetlands of international
I                   importance:   The convention on Wetlands of
                    International Importance, especially as Waterfowl
                    Habitat (RAMSAR CONVENTION).


    Introduction

    Article 2.1 of the Convention states that "Each contracting Party
    shall designate suitable wetlands within its territory for
    inclusion in a "List of .Wetlandsof International Importance".
    The guidance provided by the Convention text on identification
    of "wetlands of international importance is in Article 2.2, which
    refers to "international significance in terms of ecology,
    botany, zoology, limnology or hydrology" and indicates that "In
    the first instance, wetlands of international importance to
    waterfowl at any season should be included".     The criteria set
    out below, which have been approved by meetings of the conference

                                                  ,
    of the contracting Parties, are for identifying wetlands of
    international importance.
           ~
    criteria

     A wetland is identified as being of international importance if
    ,it meets at least one of the criteria set out below:

    1.    criteria for representative or unique wetlands

    A wetland should be considered internationally important if:

          (a)  it is a particularly good representative example of a
               natural or near-natural wetland, characteristic of the
               appropriate biogeographical region;

    or    (b)  it is a particularly good representative example of a
               natural or near-natural wetland, common to more than
               one biogeographical region;

    or    (c)  it is a particularly good representative example of a
               wetland, which plays a substantial hydrological,
               biological   or  ecological   role  in   the  natural
               functioning of a major river basin or coastal system,
               especially where it is located in a trans-border
               position;

    or    (d)  it is an example of a specific type of wetland, rare
               or unusual in the appropriate biogeographical region.

    2.    General criteria based on plants or animals

    A wetland should be considered internationally important if:

          (a)  it supports an appreciable assemblage of rare,
               vulnerable or endangered species or subspecies of plant
               or animal, or an appreciable number of individuals of
               anyone or more of these species;
                                                                    119

or       (b)    it is of special value for maintaining the genetic and
                ecological diversity of a region because of the quality
                and peculiarities of its flora and fauna;
or       (c)    it is of special value as the habitat of plants or
                animals at a critical stage of their biological cycle;

or       (d)    it is of special value for one or more endemic plant
                or animal species or communities.
3.       Specific criteria Based on Waterfowl

A wetland should be considered internationally important if:
         (a)  it regularly supports 20,000 waterfowl;
or       (b)  it   regularly  supports  sUbstantial  numbers  of
              individuals from particular groups of waterfowl,
              indicative   of  wetland values,   productivity or
     \        diversity;                  1
or       (c)  where data on populations are available, it regularly
              supports 1% of the individuals in a population of on
              species or subspecies of waterfowl.
Guidelines for Application of the Criteria
To assist contracting Parties in assessing the suitability of
wetlands for inclusion on the Lis톞 of Wetlands of International
Importance, the Conference of the contracting Parties has
formulated the following guidelines for application of the
criteria:

         (a)  A wetland could be considered of international
              importance under criterion 1 if, because of its
              outstanding role in natural, biological, ecological or
              hydrological systems, it is of sUbstantial value in
              supporting human communities dependent on the wetland.
              In this context, such support would include:
                     provision of food, fibre of fuel;
                     or maintenance of cultural values;
                     of support of food chains, water quality,
                     flood control or climatic stability.

                The support, in all its aspects, should remain within
                the   framework  of   sustainable  use   and  habi tat
                conservation, and should not change the ecological
                character of the wetland.

or       (b)  A wetland could be considered of international
              importance under criterion 1, 2 or 3 if it conforms to
              additional guidelines developed at regional (e.g.
              Scandinavian or west African) or national level.
              Elaboration of such regional or national guidelines may
              be especially appropriate;
                                                                  120

                   where particular groups of animals (other than
                   waterfowl) or plants are considered more suitable
                   as a basis for evaluation;


l                  or where waterfowl and other animals do not occur
                   in large concentrations (particularly in northern
                   latitudes);

                   or where collection of data       is difficult
                   (particularly in very large countries).
    or   (c)  The "particular groups of waterfowl, indicative of
              wetland values, productivity or diversity" in criterion
              3 (b) include any of the following:

                   loons or divers: Gaviidae;
                   grebes: Podicipedidae;
                   herons and bitterns: Ardeidaei
                   storks: ciconiidae;
                   swans, geese and dpcks (wildfowl): Anatidaei
                   shorebirds or wadets: Charadriidae; and              \.
                   terns: sternidae.

    or   (d)  The specific criteria based on waterfowl numbers will
              apply to wetlands of varying size in different
              Contracting Parties. While it is impossible to give
              precise guidance on the size of an area in which these
              numbers may occur, wetlands identified as being of
              international importance under criterion 3 should form
              an ecological unit, and may thus be made up of one big
              area or a group of smaller wetlands. Consideration may
              also be given to turnover of waterfowl at migration
              periods, so that a cumulative total is reached, if such
              data is available.
                                                                                                121

APPENDIX 3.  Climatic Data for proposed Ramsar sites (Average for
             the period 1981-1990)

A.   SONGOR (ADA)
Mean Monthly Temp. (oC)
            Jan     Feb    Mar    Apr      May     Jun      Jut    Aug    Sep    Oct     Nov    Dec

            27.8    29.3   29.4   29.3     28.6    27.5     25.8   25.5   26.4   27.8    28.8   28.0

Mean Monthly Relatfve RUlidity (X)

0600h       87      88     89     89       90      91       93     94     92     90      89     90

1500h       65      69     n      73       74      n        79     78     n      75      72     70

Mean Monthly Rainfall ( ..)




                                                                                                ,
            3.1     13.3   72.1   119.3    154.5   166.7   60.2    21.3   73.7   81.5    36.1   17.5


                                       1
8.   MUNI (APAM)
Mean Monthly Teq:I (OC)

            Jan     Feb    Mar    Apr      May     Jun      Jut    Aug    Sep    Oct     Nov    Dec
            26.8    27.9   28.3   28.6     27.7    26.2     25.1   25.0   26.0   26.6    27.0   26.9
Me., Monthly Rainfall (_)

            10.2    26.7   51.8   71.2     211.0   177.6    40.0   22.7   78.8   120.1   23.7   24.3




C.       SAKUMO (lEMA)
Me., Monthly Teq:I. (oC)
            Jan     Feb    Mar    Apr      May     Jun      Jul    Aug    Sep    Oct     Nov    Oec
            27.4    28.2   28.4   28.4     27.8    26.6     25.3   25.0   25.6   26.8    27.8   27.4
Mean Monthly Relative HUlidity (X)

060011      84      89     90     91       92      93       93     93     92     92      91     89
1500II      68      73     74     75       76      78       82     81     79     n       73     71
Mean Monthly Rainfall (..)

            2.8     18.6   36.7   63.0     109.6   131.3    43.2   16.2   65.1   56.3    10.2   25.4
                                                                                                 122

D. DENSU DELTA (ACCRA)

_Mean Mmthly Telp. (oe)

           Jan     Feb      Mar     Apr       May     Jun     Jut    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec

           27.9    28.9     28.9    28.9      27.9    26.9    25.7   25.6   26.2   27.0   28.0   27.8
Mean Monthly Relative Ih.aidity (X)

0600h      89      91       92      93        93      94      94     94     93     95     94     91
1500h      54      60       62      66        69      75      75     73     72     71     67     62
Mean Monthly lalnfal;l (.,.

           5.1     12.3     44.9    65.3      35.6    39.7    49.2   27.9   69.9   62.2   24.0   20.8




E.      KETA

Mean Monthly Telp. (vC)                   \                                                      1
           Jan     Feb      Mar     Apr       May     Jun     Jut    Aug    Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec

           27.3    28.4     28.5    28.9      27.9    26.4    25.9   25.9   26.9   27.1   27.4   27.5
Mean Monthly Relative lkIIidity (X)*

0600h      82      80       78      n         79      84      81     83     82     79     80     80
1SOOh      67      65       65      67        71      76      73     74     74     70     69     67
Mean Monthly Rainfall     (.>
           1.9     15.1     57.9    78.5      124.2   170.5   72.6   17.3   77.3   57.4   15.1   7.7



,*   Relative humidity data for period 19691978.
                                                                 123

APPENDIX 4.       Population Data for Villages/Towns      within the
                  Proposed Ramsar sites (1984 Census)
A.   SONGOR   I



Town/village                    Total          Male         Female

  Sege 
                        1,955            957          998
  Sege Mataheko 
                 143             68           75
  Sege-Nakomkope 
                470            239          231
  Akplabanya 
                  2,771          1,328        1,443
  Anyaman 
                     2,739          1,232        1,507
  Kposem-
                        101             50           51
  Goi' (Ok6wesisi) 
            3,348          1,420        1,928
  Ahuanokope (Abuanor) 
           72             38           34
  Lolonya-
                     2,284          1,044        1,240
  Kpotitse Korpe (Kpotise) 
      205            104          101


                                                           ,
  Kablevu 
                        94             46           48
  Agbedrafor 
                    226            116          110
  Bonikope( Boni )" 
             706            319          387
  Toflokpo - Saloni 
             419            194          225
         - Korblatserkope          55             24           20
         - Kortkotser Kope         49             29           20
   Kuluedor 
                   2,572          1,256        1,316
  Kuluedor (Mahiem) 
             319            147          172
  Segese 
                        385            177          208
  Hwakpo 
                        275            119          156
  Luhuor 
                        556            251          305
  Luhuor Kponorwayo 
             109             49           60
  LuhuorKponorngua 
               73             33           40
  Adokope (Addo korpe) 
          771            365          406
  Amlakpo 
                       698            330          368
  Balekope (Bale) 
               103             48           55
  Mangoase 
                       29             15           14
  Kopehem 
                       167             79           88
  Kaseh 
                       2,550          1,194        1,356
; Bedeku                          809            394          415
  Lufenya No.1 (Ayornuekope)      430            223          207
  Lufenya Ahiaborkope No.2         42             25           17
  Lufenya nwenekope                21             12             9
  Midie                            92             50            42
  Aminapa                         112             57            55
  Totokpoe (Totope)             1,032            508           524
  Pute                          1,779            871           908
  Kotobaabi                         4                 2          2
  Tobloku                       1,075            566           509
  Kokusi                           10                 7          3
  Wasakuse (Ngwa)                 178             76           102
  Dogo                            541            258           283
  Kunyenya                        187             91            96
  Totimekope                    1,250            596           654
  Kakintse Kope (Kakitse)          45             24            21
  Dzabakukope (Dzabaku)            13                 5          8
  Atortokope (Atortor)            126             59            67
  Tekpekope (Terkper)              14                 6          8
  Makatakope (Makata)              90             38            52
                                                                   124

 Tetsionye (Tetsonya)                36             18           18
 Obane (New)                        220            112          108
 Obane (Old)                         68             26           42
 Luhuese                            186            100           86
 Kwalakpoyom                         60             31           29
 Alavanyo (Elavanya)                687            343          344
 Patukope                           399            175          224
 Songutsokpar                       462            217          245
 Okisiekope (Okisse)                 76             41           35
 Ayikutsekope (Ayikutse)             12              7            5
 Addedetselope (Adedetse)           206             98          108
 Anyako (Anyakpor) (Nudakope)       603            260          343
 Mataheko                            82             43           39
 Okansekope (Ocansey)             1,018            461          557
 Otrokper                           525            236          289
 Adafoah                          5,445          2,625        2,820
 Big Ada                          4,150          1,854        2,296
 Gorm (Glome)                        11              7            4
 Dzetrokope (Dzeitro)               112             50           62
 senakik1e (Senake)                  26             16           10
 Dikanya.                            69          .~ 31           38
 Adonorkope (Addonor)                58             24           34
 Matekope (Mate)                     38             13           25
'Dunukope (Dunu)                     42             12           30




B.     MUNI 



Town/Village              Total           Male           Female

Winneba                   27,105          12,429         14,676
Pomadze                      458             217            241
Bewadze                      195              91            104
Mankwadze                  1,004             407            597
Onyadze                      521             238            283
Gomoa Amamfi                  85              53             32
Asebu                      1,019             549            470
Ansaful                      709             388            321
Mpota                        151              67             84



c.   SAKUMO 


Town/Village                Total           Male          Female

Sakumono                    1,386            685            701
Tema                      100,052         49,066         60,986
Lashibi                       507            246            261
Ashiaman                   50,918         25,768         25,150
Tema Newtown               31,466         15,156         16,310
                                                            125

     D.   DENSU DELTA

     Town/village             Total       Male    Female

      Aplaku 
                  327   
     185          142 

      Bortianor 
             3,298   
   1,569        1,729
      Chokome (Tsokome) 
       730   
     316          414 

      Dansoman 
                 ?           ?            ?
      Faana 
                 1,043         471          572 

     ,Gbegbeyise                 ?           ?            ?
      Grefi.                     ?           ?            ?
      North Malam               299   
     162          137 

      Mendskrom                  ?
          ?            ?
      McCarthy Hill             630   
     323          307 

      Mpoase                     ?
          ?            ?
      Oblogo                    625   
     327          298 

      Sampa                      ?
          ?            ?
      Tetegbu                   938   
     454          484 

     T~ga                        ?
          ?            ?

     N   Tetegbu
     Weija
                                220
                              2,464
                                      

                                      

                                          \ 122
                                          1,299
                                                          98 

                                                       1,165
     Mallam Quarry (Mallam)   4,943   
   2,536        2,407




!
I'
,
i'


i
[

t
                                                                 126

APPENDIX 5.    List .of common plant species recorded at Songor

     Grasses

     Andropogon gayanus               Aristida species
     Brachiaria falcifera             Cenchrus echinatus
     Chlorisbarbata                   Dactyloctenium aegyptium
     Heteropogon contortus            Imperata cylindrica
     Panicum maximum                  Paspalum vaginatum
     Rhvnchelytrum repens             Sporobolus pyramidalis
     Sporobolus robustus              Sporobolus. virginicus
     vetiveria fulvibarbis
     Sedges

     Cyperus articulatus              Cyperus sp. 

     Fimbristylis pilQsa              Kylinga species 

     Trees

     Azadirachta indica
                                  \   Dialium guineense
     Diospyros mespiliformis          Elaeophorbi drupifera
     Hyphaene thebaica                Lonchocarpus cyanescens
     Millettia thonningii             Zanthoxylum xanthoxyloides
     Shrubs

     Abutilon mauritianum             Agave sisalana
     Allophylus africanus             Aloe buettneri
     Avicinnia africana               Byrsocarpus coccineus
     Calotropis procera               Capparis erytbrocarpos
     Cassia occidentalis              chrysobalanus species
     Corchorus aestuans               Crotalaria retusa
     Dichrostachys cinerea            Ehretia cymosa
     Flacourtia indica                Grewia carpinifolia
     Q. mollis                        Hibiscus micranthus
     H. surattensis                   Ipomoea pes-caprae
     Jasminum dichotomum              Jatropha gossypiifolia
     opuntia species                  Passiflora glabra
     Pergularia daemia                Ritchiea reflexa
     sansevieria liberica             Schrankia leptocarpa
     Securinega virosa                sesbania sesban
     Sida acuta                       Tephrosia purpurea
     Triumfetta rhomboidea            Uraria picta
     uvaria cbamae                    Uvaria globosa
     Vigna species                    Waltheria indica
     Herbs

     Acanthospermum hispidum          Alternanthera purigens
     Asystasia calycina               Borreria species
     Cassia mimosoides                Cassia rotundifolia
     Cleome viscosa                   Commelina species
     Croton lobatus                   Euphorbia     heterophylla
     Gloriosa superpa                 Gompbrena celosioides
                                                    127 


Hyptis suaveolens         Indigofera arrecta
Lemna purpusilla          Indigofera hirsuta
Merremia species          Mollugo nudicanlis
Momordica charantia       Nymphaea lotus
Nymphaea micrantha        Physalis angulata
Polygala arenaria         Portulaca guadrifida
Pupalia lappacea          Sesuvium portulacastrum
Spigelia anthelmia        Striga species
Teramnus labialis         Tribulus terrestris
Ludwigia species          zornia latifolia




                      ,                                     \

1
I




                                                                    128
    APPENDIX 6.    List of common species of plants recorded at Muni
                   (Source: SSBP-G 1987)
         SEDGES
         Cyperus articulatus           Cyperus imbricatus
         cyperusmaritimus              Fimbristylis pilosa
         Kyllingaisp.                  Mariscus alternifolius
         Pycreus polystachyos          Remirea mar i tima .
           ,,"
         GRASSES

         Brachiaria.falcifera          Dactyloctenium aegyptium
         J!iragrostis .렁ciliaris      Heteropogon contortus
         Imperata cylindrica           Panicum톗aximuln
         Panicumrepens                 Paspalum yaginatum
         Rhynchelytrum repens          setaria pallide-fusca
         Sporobolus pyramidalis        Sporobolus virginicus
         Vetiveria fulvibarbis
         FORBS
                         a                                      \
         Abrus precatorius             Abutilon mauritiamum
         Alternantheramaritima         Anchomanes difformis
         Asystasia calycina            Dorreria scabra
         Canavalia rosea               cbromolaena odorota
         cissus sp.                    Commelina erecta
         Crinum sp.                    croton lobatus
         Euphorbia hirta               Exacumguingueneryium
         Flagellariaguineensis         Gymnema sylvesre
         Indigofera hirsuta            Ipomoea pes-caprae
         Ipomoea turbinata             Ipomoea sp.
         Ludwigia octovalvis sp.
         brevisepala                   Melothria sp.
         Oldenlandia corymbosa         Paullinia pinnata
         Passiflora glabra (foetida)   Pedalium murex
         Physalis angulata             Portulaca foliosa
         Rhynchosia sublobata          Sesuyium portulacastrum
         SHRUBS

         Allophylus africanus          Baphia njtida
         Byrsocarpus coccineus         Chrysobalanus orbicularis
         Clerodendrum                  Conocarpus erectus
         Dichrostachys cinerea         Ehretia cymosa
         Flacourtia flavescens         Grjffonia simplicifolia
         Hoslundia opposita            Jasmjnum dichotomim
         Jatropha gossypiifolia        Mallotus oppositjfolius
         Mjtragyna inermis             Rjtchjea reflexa
         Securjnega virosa             Trjumfetta rhombojdea
         Vernonia amygdalina
         TREES

         Azadirachta indica            Cocos nucifera
         Phoenix reclinata             Zanthoxylum xanthoxyloides
                                                                 129
     APPENDIX   7. List of common plant species recorded at Sakumo
                   (Source: SSBP-G 1987)

          SEDGES

          Cyperdus articulatus     Kyllinga sp
          pycreus polystachyos
          GRASSES
                     I'    I
          Bothriochloa bladhii     Brachiaria falcifera
          Chlorisbarbata           Dactyloctenium aegyptium
          Eriochla fatmensis       Heteropogon contortus
          Imperata cylindrica      Panicum repens
          Paspalum orbiculare      Paspalum vaginatum
          Sporobolus pyramidalis   Sporobolus virginicus
          Vetiveria fulvibarbis
          FORBS::\

          Alternanthera sessilis   Canavalia rQsea
          Indigofera sp.           Ipomoea pes-caprae
          Ludwigia stolonifera     Melothria sp.
          Passiflora glabra        Phyllanthus amarus
          (foetida)
          Physalis angulata        Pistia stratiotes
          Portulaca foliosa        Scoparia dulcis
          Sesbania sesban          Sesuvium portulacastrum
          Talinum triangulare      Typha domingensis
          Vigna ambacensis         Zornia latifolia
          SHRUBS

          Parkinsonia aculeata
          TREES
          Cocos nucifera
i'
i.
                                                              130

APPENDIX 8.  List of common plant species recorded at Densu delta
            . (Source: SSBP-G 1987)
                    .

     SEDGES

     Cyperus articulatus       Cyperus imbtivsyud
     Cyperus rotundus          Fimbristylis pilosa
     Kyllinga sp               pycreus polystachyos
     GRASSES
     Andropogon gayanus        Aristida adscensionis
     Bothri6chloa baladhii     Brachiari falcifera
     Cenchrus echinatus        Chloris barbata
     Cynodon dactylon '        Eragrostis ciliaris
     Hyperthelia dissoluta     Imperata cylindrica
     Panicum maximum           Pennisetum sUbangustum
     setaria allceps           Sporobolus pyramidalis
    'sporOl>olus, robostus     Vetiveria fulviba~is
     FORBS

     Abutilon mauritianum    Alternanthera pungens
     Aspilia africana        cassi~ mimosoides
     cassia occidentalis     Cleomeviscosa
     crinum sp.              Crotonlobatus
     Euphorbia hirta         Elagellaria guineensis
     Gloriosa superba        Indigofera hirsuta
     Leptadenia hastata      Oldenlandia corymbosa
     Phyllanthus amarus      Schrankia leptocarpa
     Schwenckia americana    Sesbania sesban
     sesuvium portulacastrum Sida alba
     Sida cordifolia         Sida rhOmbifolia
     Vernonia cinerea        Waltheria indica
     SHRUBS

     Byrsocarpus coccineus     Carissa edulis
     Clausena anisata          Dichapetalum madagascariense
     Dichrostachys cinere     Ehretia cymosa
     Flacourtia flavescens     Grewia carpinifolia
     Jasminum dichotomum       Mitragyna inermis
     Paullinia pinnata         Rhizophora racemosa
     Ritchiea reflexa          Securinega virosa
     TREES
     Azadirachta indica        Borassus aethiopum
     Cocos nucifera            Elaeis guineensis
     Phoenix reclinata         Zanthoxylum xanthoxyloides
                131


!



I

I

I





         MAPS
    ;
    ~'




    f;
                         ::r
                         ."
                         0     t.



                         .
                         0




                         0
                         "
               .. ..
          ~I   .. 
               c
               0         0

               ..
                    ~
               0         N
                    ~

               ... ;;:

               ~~
                         0


?

    I!l
                               (,




                               .

                               .. 





                               .

                               .,
                                                                                                                                     Fig,?                                   PROPOSED SONGOR R'AMSAR
                                                                                        0" 25'E                                                                                                             0"30'




                                ['",


                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                               I ,                                                   I
                                                                                                               I         ,                               ,       I
                                                                                                           I                 ,                           ,   I
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                          I                                       ::.':Jtt. Motsekope
            ,,                                                                                        I                               .~            .~  ..
                 \                                                                                   :                                 "1::
                                                                                                                                     ,;'I
                                                                                                    1
                     \
                         \                                                          TOflok~~t렁 ;,_A \
                             '--' ...   ' \ ' ....                                      /'
                                                                                             }I.-.::" "            '.~


                                                                                                                   Dam
                                                                                                                                 _


                                                     ,,
                                                          "


5' 50' N




                                                                 \
                                                                     ,      \
                                                                                \                                                                                                                 o   0     N
                                                                         '---')
                             ~----------                                    (/
                                                                            (
                                                                                     "" ,
                                                                            Gol              \
                                                                         (Okowesisi) \,\                                 \

           -(~~:'''':~'----- --:.~.~.~.[~';""
                                                                                               KEY                                                                                                        Vunyo
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (Camp)              Torokpoe
                                       ~                      Towns and VIHOQU                                                   - - -  firs' Closs Reod
                                       -:렁::.::~:            Scattered VilloQts                                                 - -          -   Second Closs Rood

                                       '*    .lk      ~       Marsh Of Swomp
                                                                                                                                 - - - - Third Class Rood
                                                                                                                                                                                                            G U l     F        o F   GUINEA
                                                                                                                                 - -  - - foo,path
                                                              Area liable: to Froad
                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                   2:
                                                                                                                                                   I                             t
                                                                                                                                                                                     4'
                                                                                                                                                                                     .t
                                                                                                                                                                                          Kin'.
                                                              Boundor)' of Proposed                                  i                                                                .
                                                              RAMSAR Site                                            0                                                                3 M'.                O' 30'
                                                                 Fig,8,                   PROPOSED SONGOR 

                                                o 2:!'E                                                               O 30'E




                                                                                                   Hwokpo                                       ,
                                                                                                                                              -'l 
                                                                                                                       .~."       _   --1.'   -\      -   
                                                                                     ,    .
                                                                           _--:'-i-_-
                                                                                _ , ---I. _
                                                                                             -J----=-----:::..::.-                      i


                                                                                     - -       ,- - -                '                               
                                                                           -      ,-/              -           -   I          -       -'
                                                                             ."
                                                                           -c.;;';'Mol"'." - -t                    -
                                                                            ~..::.:.,-:- - -  ~-




5"' JO' tl




                                                               -.-             Boundary of Propo,ed RAMSAR Site
             ~ Towns            on"d Vilfoqes                  - - - - First Closs Rood
             ::::':;'   Scallered Villages                     ---     -       Stcond Clol$ Rood




             ~
                        core   Zone
                                                                               Third Closs Rood

                        Controlled Zone
                                                               - - - - -       footpath                                G U L F                o   F
                                                           o
                                                           ,
                                                                                2~
                                                                                ' J
                                                                                          3-               5 Kms.
                                                                                                           I
             - _ -      Londute Monooernenf Zone           j                                           I
                                                           o                                           3Mls,
              o         Songor Logoon Feti,h (y.....1                                                                  O' 30'E




                                                                                                                                                             :~~
                                                                                                                                                             ~
                                                                                                                                                             I'
                                                                                                                                                             ir'
                    Fig.9                            PROPOSED MUNI RAMSAR SITE: SITUATION.
                                                 0"42'                                                                                                                                                   s'
                                                                                                                                                                                         KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                     Roods

                                         ,..--------,                                                                                                                                Footpaths. Cut Lines
                                 ./                                              '\                                                                               o                  Towns and Villages
                            /                                                         '\                                                                                             Built-up Areas
                        I                                                                             ,
                        I                                                                                                                                                            Boundary of proposed
5"26'               I                                                                                                                                                                Ramsar site.
                    I
                    I
                    ""\
      / /
            /'
            .
                )
                    I
                                .\
                                     \
 /'                 I                    \
                    I                        \                                                                                                                                               ,
                                                                                                                                                     ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                     ,-'
                    I                            .                                                                                                                        , ,,'
  YENKU BLOCK 'A I FOREST\.
                RESERVE                              >                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                     ,

                                                                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                                                                      I


                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                     /
                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                                                                                                                         -,
                                                                                                                                     I       I'




                                                                            I
                                                                                ,r-l,
                                                                                      I

                                                                                          \
                                                                                                                                                                                                          --
                                                                        I                     I
                                                                    I                         I

                                                         ,,"
                                                               ,/                             I
                                                                                                  \
                                                                                                                                 \
                                                                                                                                     \                                         ...
                                                                                                          ... ... .....                      ~""
                                                                                                                                              ... ,
                                                                                                                          ....   _
                                                                                                                                                         \
                                                                                                                                                              \
                                                                                                                                                                      \
                                                                                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                                                                               \
                                                                                                                                                                          WINNEBA
                                                                                                                                                                                     \
                                                                                                                                                                                         \
                                                                                                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                                                                 }




                                                                                                                                 o                                                                   2         3 Km
                                                                                                                                 I                                                                             I   I
                     Fig.IO PROPOSED MUNI RAMSAR SITE: ZONES
                                                                                KEY

                                                                11111111   Core Area

                                                                11111111   Traditional Hunting Area
                                                                           Land Use Management
                                   Awomberew
                                                                l2:2J      Area
                                                                I: :) Controlled       Zone

                                                                II I II    Settlements
5-2e'                                                                      Roads
                                                                - - - -- Footpaths Cut Lines


             /
                 .                             ' - _ -..... Chopess
         /                                           ," Conngoh
    ./                                             ,,"




5"24'




\




                                                           o                    2        3 Km
                                                            I                   I        I

                                                           o
                                                       Fig. 11                  PROPOSED SAKUMO RAMSAR SITE
                                                                                          -- --
        O'   'o톣


                                                   /
                                                        /'"
                                                              /
                                                                   ".

                                                                                                  ---  ,
                                    -
                                                                                                      ........

                                               /
                                          _/                                                                          "
                                                                                                                             "
                                                                                                                                      '-''-
                                                                                                                                              ------"
                                                                                                                                                           "   \
                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                       \
                                                                                                                                                                           \
                                                                                                                                                           f(OllaSVnonko~
                                                                                                                                                                               \
                                                                                                                                                                                \
                                                                                                                                                                                   \
                                                                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                               I
              \                                                                                                                                                                I
                  \                                                                                                                                                            \
                  \                                                                                                                                                             I
                      \                                                                                                                                                         \
                       \
                       \                                          AshOl, Bofw.
                                                                  :;;
                       I
MAOINA
                           \
                            \
                            \
  40'"                          \
                                    "" "
                                         "
                                                   "                     O,onor
                                                                        .:-"*




                                                                                  ,

1"7771
=-.... fl'. H'ma"tI'" "ood
~
    _

-RoOd




    ":'1
             RAMSAR S"..,po,' lOA' 'lond Un
             MG"Q,.m.,,' Auo



             p,.,....
                        _Of"
                                SUe 'or tOn,lrllcHon 0'
                                            bodr
                                                                                      '
                                                                                           --------
                                                                                      Okpeo.n                    ........   .......


 ::-.:7ur.i At.o tiobl.             to.




        o
        !                                                                                                                                         GilL'   0'   GIIINEA
                                       Fig. 12                            PROPOSED SAKUMO RAMSAR SITE (CORE AREA)
~r-------------'-------------~--------------~------------'-------------~--------------'-------------~----~--------,




,..                                                                                                                                         "


                              N


1j~:;O
                                                                                                                                            )'




                   ..렁fl'lll. . . . f ... ,.4'
                                .-w렁
                      ....'1.,.."             t
'f:O                   u.,..... t"'...,




                                                                      .
                                                                      I
                                                                      ,
                                                                     ./
                                                          ':'7...'
                                                          "),.
                                                          ,;.
                                                         I,
                                                        'I
                                                    'I
                                              I,
                                                   I,                                                                                       ".
                                             I,
                                            If




."


             /
             ~ 

         ~ 


         "


 ..
,,
                                                                                                                                       ,,
                                                                                                                                            l>(

                                                                                                                                 ,.'




                                                                                                                    ..  ~   ':
                                                                                                                                            ,..
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                            1



                                                                                                                                            ,..

                                                                                                                                            ,u
                   D           (0"      A,e.,


                   o           lo,,, .,




                                                                                                                                            "f

                   =====      neod
                                                                                                .... -
                                                                                                I   I    "':'"   ....
             Fig.13   PROPOSED DENSU DELTA RAMSAR SITE
                                                                 KEY
                                                  렁렁렁 Proposed ramsar site
                                                         Romlor support zone
                                                         Solt pons
                                                         RoOds
                                                         Footpaths, Cut lines
        /'                                        ~
                                                  ~      Towns, Vlllall"
    /
                                                  ~ Rive... Streams
I
,
r
.                                                 o
                                                  I
                                                  o
                                                                 2
                                                                  I
                                                                        3Km
                                                                        I
                                                                            
                                                                            2Mls
"'~-:"-:'f'e~~~'~:~~~,.!~.~in.   ,BuP. in.", ~t'~"               ('"v<';",t'j"'..t
                                                     ,':;<- ......                   0i"~렁~~t~....;;     , ((,:   ~'";",~t-:,.,          ~.'- ~~~~~,7 "trP"" ~ -,,-,-,' :~~:_:.       ~~j ,     . 4쬖iQi.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .   ,i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  "   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ..               .. 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '-------




                           Fig.14         PROPOSED ANLO-KETA RAMSAR SITE
       O' 30'                           0" 40'                                                     O' 50'                                                                ~oo'                                                     ,. 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                     \.
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~     TOG 0
     S' 10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                          \   -,.-.-- .-._._"-""


                                                                                *'                  Abor~"
                                                                                                                     ~'-
                                                                                     t                               ~
                                                                      *                                     I
                                                                                                                / \ '\\
                                                              l6'         l6'                           I               I             '\'111:
                                                     *                ~         A venofemv                            'I             ..I, ' \       'i'
                                                                                                                       I             lit'       \                                                                                                 6 00'
                                                                                                  :i'                            A nyoko '0

                                                                                                                     i.'
                                                                                            lit                                                            KETA
                                                                                     :i'~N09Ui
                                                                                             L..                              'i'
                                                                                                                                                          L.AGOON


                                                                j:'             l\                          .>1< : " '렁,



                                                                     *          L 9
                                                                                \j
                                                                                     0 ui




                                                                                                    '*
                                                                                                       *,                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                   KEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Water bodies

     ,. 50'
                                                                                                                                                                                     _ . _ 80undary of Proposed
                                                                                                                                                                                           Anlo-Keta RamlGf Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,0   :10'

                                                                                                                                                                                     - F i r s t Clan Road
                                                                                                                                                                                     ---Second Clan Road
                                                                                                                                                                                     *- *- Marshy      area .
                                                                                                                                                                                          --International boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                             Areas of birds concentration
                       G U L F          OF       GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                         C                          ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10Km


      0" 30'                           0" 40'                                                     0"50'                                                                    I" 00'                                                ,. 10'
