                                 Documentof
                              The World Bank




                                                  ReportNo.: 43758




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   GHANA



         ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 2426-GH)

                                    AND

           GEF COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                (WBTF 28619)

                                    AND

               NATURAL RESOURCESMANAGMENT PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 3091-GH)



                                 June 24,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (WorldBank)

Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = GhanaianCedi (C)
1998 (May)               U S $ 1.00      -
                                         -       c 2,200
2003 (January)           US$1.00         -
                                         -       C 7,225
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB            African DevelopmentBank
APL             Adaptable ProgramLoan
CIF             CommunityInvestment Fund
CISF            CommunityInvestment Support Fund
DA              District Assembly
DANIDA          DutchInternationalDevelopmentAgency
DFID            Department for InternationalDevelopment(UK)
EIS             EnvironmentalInformationSystems
EPA             EnvironmentalProtectionAgency
EU              EuropeanUnion
FC              Forestry Commission
FRMP            ForestResourceManagementProject
FSDP            Forest Sector DevelopmentProject
FS              Forest Services
GBSA            Globally SignificantBiodiversityAreas
GEF             GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GFS             GhanaForest Service
GWS             Ghana Wildlife Society
HIPC            Highly IndebtedPoor Countries
ICR             ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA             InternationalDevelopmentAssociation ofthe World Bank
IDA             InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
MLF             Ministry of Lands and Forestry
MLFN            MinistryofLands,ForestandMines
MOFA            Ministry of Foodand Agriculture
NEDA            NetherlandsDevelopmentAgency
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NRMP            NaturalResourceManagementProject
PAD             Project AppraisalDocument
PRSP            Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
RNG             RoyalNetherlandsGovernment
SRMC             SavannahResourceManagementCenter
TIDB            Timber IndustryDevelopmentBoard
TREP             TraditionalRenewableEnergy Project
TUP              Timber Utilization Permit
WLD              Wildlife Department(earlier the WD)
WRM              Wildlife ResourceManagement

FiscalYear
Government                                January 1-December 31




Director-General, Evaluation                             : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)        : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                       : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                             : Mr.JohnHeath

I IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopment effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.                    I

 About this Report
        The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
 dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
 that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
 which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.
        To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
 documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
 and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
 in local offices as appropriate.
        Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
 internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
 relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
 the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
 the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the IEGWB Rating System
        IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
 arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
 (additional information is available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
        Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
 relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
 objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
 sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
 Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
 the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
 extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
 and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
 operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
 expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
 Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
 operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (includingensuring adequate
 transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
 achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing
 agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
 agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
 performance and implementingagency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
 Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                  iii


Contents

PrincipalRatings        ...............................................................................................................     v

Key StaffResponsible           .......................................................................................................      vi

Preface ..............................................................................................................................     vu..

Summary    ...........................................................................................................................      ix

1.     Background           ............................................................................................................     1

           EnvironmentalVulnerability                                                                                                        3
           InstitutionalchallengesaffectingEnvironmentalManagement                                                                           3


2.     The Projects         ............................................................................................................     8

       The Environmental ResourcesManagementProject..                                          ............................................ .8
           Objectives, components and costs                                                                                                  8
           Project Design                                                                                                                    8
       The CoastalWetlands ManagementComponent ..................................................                                           10
       TheNatural ResourceManagementProject..........................................................                                       10
           Objectives, components and costs                                                                                                 10
           ProjectDesign                                                                                                                    11


3.     Implementation             ....................................................................................................      14

           ImplementingArrangements                                                                                                         14
           ImplementationExperience                                                                                                         15
       Monitoring and Evaluation                   ....................................................................................     16

4.     ProjectEvaluations               ..............................................................................................      17

       Relevanceof Objectives                  ........................................................................................     17
       Efficacy     .................................................................................................................. 21
           EnvironmentalResourcesManagementProject                                                                                          21
            GEFCoastalWetlands ManagementComponent                                                                                          25
           NationalResourceManagement Project                                                                                               30
       Efficiency.............................................................................................................. .41
            Environmental ResourcesManagementProject                                                                                        41
            GEFCoastalWetlands ManagementComponent                                                                                          41
           NaturalResourcesManagementProject                                                                                                41
       Outcomes        .............................................................................................................. .42
       Risksto Development Outcomes                           .........................................................................    .43
This reportwas prepared by George T. K.Pitmanwho assessedthe project inJune 2006. Soon-
Won Pak providedadministrativesupport.

                                                  iv


     BankPerformance .................................................................................................  45
     Borrower Performance   ..........................................................................................  46

5.   LookingForward and Lessons             ........................................................................... 47

Annex A BasicData Sheet
       .                ..............................................................................................  53

                                                      V



PrincipalRatings

                                                 /CR*                /CR Review*                   PPAR

EnvironmentalResource ManagementProject
Outcome                                      Satisfactory            Moderately               Moderately
                                                                     Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**              Modest                 Modest                      nr
Risks to Development Outcome                       nr                      nr                  Significant
Sustainability***                                Likely                  Likely                    nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory              Moderately
                                                                                              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
GEF CoastalWetlandsManagementProject
Outcome                                     Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory             Moderately
                                                                                            Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**              Modest                 Modest                      nr
Risks to Development Outcome                       nr                      nr                  Significant
Sustainability***                               Unlikely               Unlikely                    nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Unsatisfactory           Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
NaturalResourcesManagementProject
Outcome                                     Satisfactory             Moderately             Unsatisfactory
                                                                     Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**              Modest                  Modest                     nr
Risks to Development Outcome                       nr                      nr                  Significant
Sustainability***                                Likely             Non-evaluable                  nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings
of the ICR.
** As of July 1,2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
*** As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.
nr = not rated

                                       vi


Key Staff Responsible

       Project                  Task          Division Chief/      Country
                          ManagedLeader      Sector Director       Director

EnvironmentalResource ManagementProject

Appraisal                     Ian Hill          J. Joyce          E. Lim
Completion               Patience Mensah   Jean-Paul Chausse  Peter C. Harrold



GEF Coastal Wetlands ManagementProject
Appraisal                     Ian Hill          J. Joyce          E. Lim
Completion               Patience Mensah   Jean-Paul Chausse  Peter C. Harrold



NaturalResourcesManagementProject
Appraisal                 Robert Epworth   Jean-Paul Chausse  Peter C. Harrold
Completion              Edward E. Dwumfour Mary Barton-Dock    Mats Karlsson

                                              vii


Preface

This i s the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the GhanaProject (Credit
2426), its associated GEF Coastal Wetlands Management Project (WBTF 28619), and the
Natural Resources Management Project (Credit 3091).

The Environmental Resource Management Project, estimated at appraisal to cost
US$35.9 million, was approved inOctober 1992 for an IDA Credit o fUS$ 18.lmillion.
Total project costs at completion were US$31.4 million o fwhich IDAprovided US$18.5
million. While the Government of Ghanaplannedto contribute US$5.4 million, by
project closing only US$0.9 hadbeen disbursed.Parallel financing was provided by
DANIDA (US$4.1 millionagainst its plannedamount ofUS$4.3 million)andDFID
(US$1.2 million against its plannedamount o fUS$0.9 million). The credit closed on
December 31, 1998 after a one year extension, whenUS$7,777 was cancelled.

The GEF Coastal Wetlands Management Project, estimated at appraisal to cost US$ 8.3
million, was approved inAugust 1992 for a GEF Grant o fUS$ 7.2 million. The final cost
o f the project was US$ 6.9 million o fwhich GEF disbursed US$6.05 million.
Government of Ghana disbursed US$ 0.2 million o fthe US$l.1million it allocated to the
project. The funding gap was closed by contributions from project beneficiaries. The
grant closed inDecember 31, 1999 after a two-year extension when US$ 0.85 million
was cancelled.

TheNaturalResources Management Project, estimated at appraisal to cost US$29.33
million, was approved inJune 1995 for an IDA credit o fUS$ 10.11million. The final
cost o f the project was US$22.55 million o fwhich IDA disbursed US$ 9.02 million. The
Government o f Ghana disbursed US$0.74 million against its planned allocation o f
US$2.2 million, Parallel financing o fUS$13.25 million was contributed by DFID(US$
11.7 million through their Forest Sector Development I1Project) and DANIDA(US$l.55
millionthroughtheir Traditional EnergyProject). The credit closed June 30,2003 after
two extension totaling 33 months.

This report is based onthe review o fthe respective StaffAppraisal Reports andProject
Appraisal Documents, credit and legal documents, project files, Implementation
Completion Reports anddiscussions with Bank staff inWashington and Accra. An
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission visited Ghana inJune 2006 to discuss the
effectiveness o f the Bank's assistance with the Government, development partners,
implementing agencies, and beneficiaries. Their cooperation and assistance i s gratefully
acknowledged.

These projects were selected for assessmentbecause there hadbeenno independent
assessment o fthe Bank's environmental projects inGhana. This assessment i s also a key
input to IEG's assessmentofthe Bank's global environmentalportfolio (1990-2007);
Ghanais one o f the case study countries.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPAR were sent to the Borrower
for comment, but none were received.


                                                ix


Summary

Designedto support implementation ofthe Government of Ghana's 1990National
Environmental Action Plan, the three assessedprojects all soughtto strengthenthe
capacity of both government and peopleto manage environmental resources. The African
Development Bank, DFIDand DANIDA, the EuropeanUnion, GEF and the World Food
Program provided either cofinancing or parallel financing.

The EnvironmentalResources ManagementProject(ERMP), approved in 1992,
focused on building capacity and natural resources informationsystems incentral
institutions, introducing improved, community-led stewardship of landand water
resources, and promoting environmental awareness and education. It took special steps to
maintain and restorethe coastalwetlands and reduce wastewater pollution, this
component being separately financed through the GEF CoastalWetlandsManagement
Project(CWMP), whichwas also approvedin 1992.

The NaturalResources ManagementProject(NRMP), approvedin 1998, built on the
Forest ResourceManagementProject that was completed in 1988, as well as the ERMP.
The NRMP was phase one of the three-phaseten-year Natural ResourcesManagement
Program, and was formulated as an adaptable program loan (APL). Its goal was to help
protect the hightropical forests andthe savanna by strengtheningthe network of
Ghanaianconservation areas and developing sustainable use and managementsystems. It
also sought to restructure and strengthennatural resourcemanagement, finalize policy
reforms and legislation on forest pricing, and pilot community-led natural and forest
resourcemanagement.

The outcome of the ERMP is ratedas moderately unsatisfactory. Reorganization and
strengtheningof the Environmental Protection Agency significantly increased its
effectivenessand visibility and its role as apolicy and regulatory agency. Even so,
staffing i s less than half of that required, reflecting the lack of adequate salaries and
incentive packages, high staff turnover andthe lack of champions for environmental
stewardship. Generating income from fees andpermitshas taken precedence over non-
remunerative activities suchas biodiversity conservation and grass roots awareness-
raising-activities   that are costly andtime-consuming-and        this has influencedstaffing
priorities. Achievements inlandand water managementwere modest because of delayed
start-up, continued duplication ofresponsibility among government agencies, and
fragmented small-scalecommunity interventions that were not aligned to watershed
managementareas. Land and water managementactivities are not yet part o f a
comprehensiveand mainstreamedmanagementapproachto sustainableland
development.

The outcome of the CWMP is ratedmoderately unsatisfactory. While the project helped
with the preparation of the 1999 Wetland Management Regulations and the national
strategy for wetland management adopted in2000, many communities complained that
they hadnot beenconsultedabout, or compensatedfor loss of access to, the six coastal
wetlands that were earmarkedfor protection under the Ramsar Convention. The wetlands
remain underthreat because there is pressure on their margins from the expansion of
agriculture, logging, urbanization, and salt gleaning. Managementi s weak because the

                                                X



Wildlife Departmentlacks capacity and is under-equippedand under-funded. The
Community Investment SupportFund component, directed at ecologically sustainable
income-generatingactivities, was unsuccessfuldue to poor and rushedinvestment
selectioncriteria, neglect of local institutions and failure to recover costs. The revolving
funds that were set up were perceivedby communities as a safety net andthe link to
environmental conservation activities was not generally understood.

The outcome of the NRMP is ratedunsatisfactory. While substantialprogress was made
on policy and legislation, translating this into sustainablemanagementpracticeshas
proved to be challenging because of overlapping responsibilities, distorted incentive
structures, lack of transparency, poor governance and the declining importance of `non-
productive' environmental concerns to government. The slow and unevenpace of reform,
low government interest inthe environment, and the switchto budget support
mechanismsledto the cancellation ofthe APL at completion ofthe substantially
extendedfirst phase NRMP. Environmental management, despite the earlier
improvements, was recently fragmented across two ministries and one line agency greatly
weakening a coherent and comprehensiveapproachto the overall managementof
Ghana's natural resources. The new Ministryof Local Government, Rural Development
and Environment is primarily concernedwithprovision of water supply, pollutioncontrol
andother "brown" issues and overall environmental policy coordination is lacking.
Legislation introduced or amendedto improve the management and commercial viability
of Ghana's forests is only modestly effective.

All three projects share the same risk to development outcome andthese are rated as
significant. Notwithstanding the gains on environmental policy under the projects the
capacity to implement it is weakenedby low levels of government ownership. This has
beena long-term phenomenoncausedby the government's willingness to allow donor
grant aid to substitutefor its ownresources. Recent reorganization of environmental
agencies and managementand its downgrading as a "non-productive" sector indicates
government's waning interest inthe environment despite high-level rhetoric. The ability
for day-to-day management is further weakenedby reducing agency budgets, inability to
retain or attract qualified professional staff, poor regulation and corruption. The phasing-
out of project support infavor of budget support, and the loss of substantial external
technical support, has left technical weaknesses that are unresolved andthreaten sound
regulation and protection o fthe environment.

Bankperformance on the Environmental ManagementProject i s rated moderately
unsatisfactory, and unsatisfactory for its GEF Project component andthe follow-on
Natural ResourcesManagementProject. Borrower performance for all three projects is
ratedas unsatisfactory.

Experiencewith these projects confirms seven IEGlessons:

        Borrower ownership is key to achievingproject objectives. It is essential to
        gauge support at higher levels of governmentthanthe concernedenvironmental
        agencies. Care has to betaken that international environmental pressure, vested
        interests and the understandableenthusiasmof the Bank's own appraisal process
        does not leadto financing of worthy causes that governments are unwilling to
        support.

                                      xi


Sound environmentpolicy andmanagementrequireinclusionof all
stakeholdersand incentivesto keep them engaged. Care has to be takenthat
individuals and community stakeholders are empowered inthe decision-making
process, particularly over allocation o f rightsto utilize natural resources. The
assessedprojects clearly show that insecure property rights allied with
centralized, top-down award o f concessions to commercial operations and capture
of economic rents creates conflict andpromotes non-sustainable natural resource
utilization.
Agricultureandenvironmentare differentsides of the same coin and should
not be consideredinisolation.Insufficient attentionto addressing the causes o f
rural poverty drives people to live off the environmental commons where short-
term survival interests typically outweigh consideration o f longer-term stability.
Lackof good governanceand highpovertyare frequentlythe main risksto
environmentalsustainability.Without addressingthese two inter-linked issues
good environmental policy, programs and projects remain a partial solution. All
too often the enthusiasm for environmentalrescue and `doing something rather
thannothing' outweighs the commitment to the more mundane andfocused
attention needed for systemic reforms and the incentive structures inother areas
o fthe economy.
Capacity buildingmay be a two-edgedsword. Poorly targeted environmental
TA may be a substitute for inadequate localresources andthis is potentially a
serious problem when government has low project ownership. Dependence on
external funding, advisory and analytical work enabled by TA, while ensuring
project objectives are achieved inthe short term, poses highrisks to longer-term
sustainability.
AdjustableProgramLoansneedto have clear objectivesand performance
indicatorsthat are realisticand achievablefor each phase. The lesson ofthe
NRMP was that the APL did not work because o fhighly complex and
overlapping objectives, too many actors, unresolvedfinancing problems and poor
managerial oversight. A comprehensive approach to reforming environmental
management need not be complex.
Internationalconventions and trade agreements may providepowerfullevers
for reformof timber harvesting.The key challenge is to identifythe suite of
minimumenabling actions and incentives to achieve reform, andto agree to
benchmarks that trigger outcome-based financial aid according to negotiated
international agreements. A key requirement would be the establishment o f
independent regulators to ensure transparency.




                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                        Director General
                                                          Evaluation


                                                    1


1.Background

1.        Located on West Africa's Gulfof Guinea only a few degrees northof the Equator,
Ghana's 239,000 km2have a diverse and rich resourcebase. About two-thirds of Ghana's
22 million (2005) inhabitants live inthe high forest zone that occupies about a third of the
south and western Ghana. The remainder lives intwo savanna zones. The northern
savanna -occupying about halfthe country -stretches northof the semi-deciduousforest
to the border with BukinaFaso.The coastal savannaforms a narrow belt south of the
high forest widening eastwardsto encompass the delta of the River Volta.

2.        Agriculturalproduction i s predominantly small-scale and i s concentratedon
cocoa and staple food crops that includemaize, cassava and yams which are mostly
cultivated using traditional land-usemethods such as slash-and-burn. Cocoa grows inall
the regions except the north. Forestry is important to Ghana's economy and is the third
leading source of foreign exchange earnings. It also yields environmental benefits mainly
by protecting soils from erosion and providinghabitat for wildlife. Inaddition, forests
and the woodlands serve as the major source of fuelwood energy for three-quarters of the
total population and about 90 percent of the rural population.

3.        Ghana's economy is sustainedon gold, precious minerals, cocoa, and timber. The
major foreign exchange earners include cocoa (which accounts for over 40 percent of
export earnings), followed by gold, timber, fish, bauxite, and aluminum. Agriculture is
the dominant sector, accounting for almost two-thirds of employment and around40
percent of total GDP. Services comprise the second largest sector inthe economy,
accounting for an increasing share of GDP.' There is a small industrial sector that
includestextiles, steel (from imported scrap), tires, oil refining, flour milling, beverages,
tobacco, simple consumer goods, and car, truck, and bus assembly. Tourism has become
one of Ghana's largest foreign income earners (ranking third in2003 at $600 million),
and the GhanaianGovernment has placed great emphasis on further tourism support and
development and muchofthis i s linkedto eco-tourism.

4.        One of Ghana's fundamental problems is the persistent reliance on the export of a
few primary products with little or no value added (cocoa, gold, timber and others) that
has made the economy vulnerable to price fluctuations dictated by buyers inthe
developed economies. The low earnings from primary products lowered revenues and
made it difficult to create wealth inthe country.

5.        Classified currently as a lower-income country, Ghana's per-capita income stood
at US$3,800 in2004 and overall levels of poverty declinedduring the 1990s (Figure 1).
Despite this, more than a quarter of the population i s estimated to live below the poverty
line and average per capita income inGhana today i s less than that at independence44
years ago. This reflects annual population growth that i s greater then the rate of decline in



1. The service sector grew from 30% of GDP in 1980to 39% in 2005. Agriculture's share of GDP has declined
steadily from 58% in 1980to 37% in2005. Industry's contribution has doubled over the same period and now
accountsfor a quarter of GDP.

                                                     2


poverty levels. Insome areas growing and deepening poverty has intensified vulnerability
and exclusion among some groups.2Halfofthe tenregions inGhana hadmore than40
percent o f their population living inpoverty in 1999 andthese are closely linkedto the
agro-ecology o f these areas, especially inthe north and central regions o f the country
(Figure 1).

Figure 1: Ghana's poverty is closely linked to agro-ecological regions

        70

        60           0 1991/92             13 1998199

  E
  8'E-i?50


        40    37
                 I
              1                                                        33

        30         27                                     27    27
  ;     20

        10

         0
               Ghana    Accra        Urban     Urban       Urban         Rural    RuralForest  Rural
                                    Coastal    Forest    Savannah       Coastal               Savannah

Source: GhanaPRS. 2003. Derivedfrom the Ghana StatisticalService.

6.        Food crop farmers inthe savanna areas have the highest incidence o f poverty and
comprise almost two-thirds of the poor inGhana. Factors exacerbating poverty include
lack of access to markets, highcost o f inputs, low levels o f economic infrastructure and
the mining, rather than nurture, o f natural resources. Thus highlevels o f rural poverty
have increased also the pressure onthe environment.

7.        After independence in 1957andfollowing aperiod o fpolitical instability, the
current constitution was approved in 1992 and since then Ghana has been widely viewed
as one o fAfrica's most stable democracies. Extensive liberalization and adjustment inthe
1980sproduced some growth inservices and miningbut did little to produce and sustain
growth inagriculture and manufacturing. Following an economic crisis in 1999, the local
currency (the cedi) had lost around half o f its value against the US dollar, external
reserves were depleted and external payment arrears accumulated, and the fiscal deficit
rose to about 9 percent o f GDP. Historically, government expenditure has been biased in
favor o f recurrent expenditure, the majority o f which went into salaries the latter   -
representing about 30 percent o f total government e~penditure.~Conversely, government
spending on poverty reduction, growth programs and projects has been low inpart
becausethe donor community has shouldered much o f these expenditures.




2. GhanaPoverty Reduction Strategy 2003-2005: An Agenda for Growth and Prosperity. February 19,2003.
3. Civil serviceemployment as a percentageof population was the third highest (1.8%) in sub-Saharan Africa
(SSA). The government wage bill as a percentageof GDP (5.6%) was significantly higher than the average for
low wage non-CFA countries, (4.1%).

8.       Ghana's relatively good governance and macro-economic management since
2001has enabled continued access to substantialfinancial and technical assistancefrom
the international community, including significant amounts of Multi-Donor Budget
Support. Ghana's success inattracting budget support has paid dividends inthe form of
greater predictability of external fwnds and lower transaction costs. However, this level of
donor support for poverty reduction and growth-oriented activities -more than 70
percent of total expenditure -represents an unsustainable situation inthe longtermq4

9.       In2005 robust receipts from the gold sector helpedsustainGDP growthalong
with favorable prices for Ghana's cocoa crop. Government's progress inrestoring
aggregatefiscal discipline and implementing economic reforms facilitated the earning of
substantialHIPC debt relief in2004 and qualification for debt relief under the
MultilateralDebtReliefInitiative in2005. Improved control over monetary aggregates
has ledto ahalving inthe rate of inflation since 2001,to about 15 percent by 2005.'
Remittancesfrom expatriate Ghanaians, encouragedby a stronger economy, now rival
commodity exports as a source of foreign exchange earnings.

ENVIRONMENTAL            VULNERABILITY
10.      The country can be classified into well-defined agro-ecological zones (Figure 1)
each of which has specific environmental problems andrisks. The largest risk is caused
by increasing population pressure.

INSTITUTIONALCHALLENGESAFFECTINGENVIRONMENTAL                               MANAGEMENT
11.      Sound environmental management inGhanais challenged inthree ways. First
population pressure is testing traditional community approachesto land managementthat
placed ahighpremiumof sustainablemanagement. Second, the national knowledge base
on land and environmental resourceshas had difficulty inkeeping pace with local
realities. And third, while there is a strong and evolvingregulatory framework,
responsibility for the environment and land is fragmented across many agencies (some of
which have overlapping responsibilities) that are inadequately staffed and budgeted.

12.      Traditional land tenure arrangementshistorically secured the landfrom over-
exploitation and degradation.Inthe Akan culture of southernGhana landbelonged to the
community and most individuals had only usefmctuary rights while others participated in
share cropping and cashrental. Inthe north, land ownership i s vested ina clan or stool
and land is allocated to individuals by the stool holder.6Land not assignedto an
individualremained a common pool resourcethat could be utilized by others inthe
community, or outsiders with the stool holder's approval. Rights to use trees or tree
products were traditionally determinedby the headofthe stool, but outsidershad no



4. Multi-Donor Budget Support in 2005 was US$282 million, or around 11percent of total budgeted
expenditure.Donor aid to economic services and infrastructure represents a substantialproportion oftotal
expenditureinthose two areas. In2001 this was distributed as follows: Agriculture 86%, Energy 90%, Industry
72%, Water 76%, and Roads 76%.
5. World Bank, DANIDA and DFID. 2006. Ghana- 2006 External Review of Public Financial Management. 2
Volumes. Report No. 36384-GH.
6. A "stool" refers to a community governanceor administrative structuresimilar to dynasties and is derived
from the traditional symbol of authority -the chiefs carved sitting stool.

                                                        4


rightsto "permanent" vegetation such as trees, even ifthey plantedthem.

13.       Withthe advent of Britishcolonial rule inGhana natural resources were regarded
as a source of income andthe primary objective was to safeguard their integrity to
produce sustained harvests. Thus inforests, indigenous practices that valued non-
commercial and traditional attributes and outputs were seen as irrelevant and, generally,
natural resources o f value were `ring fenced' to stop encroachment by local peoplea7And
given the economic importance and symbiotic relationship between cocoa production and
forestry, most legislation had a secondary objective to maintain agro-climatic conditions
conducive to highcocoa productivity. Forest reserve areas were created from 1927, a
process that continued untilthe 1950s by which time 279 forest reserves covering about
20 percent o f all forested area or 1.8 million hectares.',             Subsequently, after
independence, management o f all stool land and revenues derived from them, and the
rightto grant timber concessions andmanagement of all timber resources, including
those outside reserves, became vested incentral government."

14.       The change inproperty rights, allied with a population that quadrupled since the
1950s, reduced the efficiency o f natural resource utilization and extraction, increasing
environmental risks. Landuse changes triggered the primary risks.Increasing
urbanization around Accra and along the coastal belt created highpoint source and non-
point source pollution as urban growth outstripped the ability o f municipal authorities to
collect solid waste and treat wastewater. And this pollution adversely affected near-shore
waters and the network o f coastal lagoons andwetlands.

15.       Ofthe 8 million hectares o f forest cover at the start inthe 20th century, only about
1.4 million hectares remainedby 2000. By the early 1990s between 50 and 70 percent of
the total area o freserve forests inwestern Ghana hadbeenillegally encroached upon
primarily for timber extraction, cocoa plantationor miningactivities. l1Additionally, non-
reserve forests provide about two-thirds o f Ghana's annual timber harvest and their rapid
exploitation increases the pressure on the remaining reserve forest areas. By the early
1990s, there were approximately 220 lumber processors inGhana, employing an
estimated 70,000 people, or about 15 percent o f the total workforce.

16.       Deforestation and extensification o f agriculture led to deteriorationo f soil and



7. Non-timber forest productsfor example include: charcoal, food wrapping leaves, medicinal plants, spices,
bushmeat, chewsticks, cane for utensilsand furniture and cala nuts.
8. Kotey, N A, J Francois, J G K Owusu, R Yeboah, KS Amanor, L Antwi. 1998.Falling into Place: Ghana
Country Study. International Institute for Environment and Development. London.
9. The Forest Ordinance(1927) initiated the process of creatingthe reserves. The 1948 Forest Policy provided
for conservationand protection of the forest environment, management of the permanentforest estate and the
felling of off-reserve forest. The ProtectedTimber Lands Act (1959) gave the ForestryDepartment power to
control and regulatefarm expansion inheavily forested areas outside formal forest reserves. Within the reserves
forests about 1.37million ha is for production and 0.43 million ha is protected.
10. In 1962The Administration of Lands Act (Act 123) vestedall stool lands; the ConcessionsAct (Act 124)
centralized control of timber concessions and management.
11. England, 0. 1993. Forest protection and rights of cocoafarmers in WesternGhana. J. African Law. 37(2).
164-176. Kasanger, R.K. 1994.Land tenure systems and forest reserve management:tenurial conflicts and forest
conservationinGhana. Workshop on Forest Land use Options: Conflicts and Solution. British Council. Kumasi,
Ghana. January 1994.

                                                       5


land resources. Driven by plant diseases that started before independence, cocoa
production shiftedfrom the eastern regions to the highforest and forest-transition areas
towards the west where the climate was more conducive and land for agriculture-
including cleared forest areas-was relatively abundant. Most o f the cocoa farmers were
immigrants from the northern and eastern regions driven by economic necessity, and
where cocoa provedto be unprofitable, food crops were substituted.Incom arisonwith
indigenous subsistence farmers, migrantswere mainly commercial farmers.                       pz

17.       To maximize incomes to pay landrents demanded by stool holders, most o f these
new sharecroppers minedthe soil fertility by shortening fallow periods and cutting back
on fertilizers - a practice that also safeguarded tenancy rights giventhat "unused" land
could be reallocated by the stool h01der.l~Elsewhere woodland andbushwere burntto
extend agriculture and between 1978 and 1990the total cultivated area increased from
1.8 million ha to 4.3 million ha. A bushfireepidemic in 1983 followin a period o f severe
drought destroyed large areas o f cocoa and forest inand off reserves.''                  Over the same
period fertilizer use fell from 22 kg per ha to 7 kg per ha." And an adverse consequence
o f the Forestry Department's practice to award timber concessions within agricultural
land to outsiders was that farmers frequently burnedor destroyed timber they were not
allowed to use because concessionaires generally caused considerable crop damage and
paid no compensation.16

18.       Excessive centralization o f state control after independence, allied with an
overvalued currency, lack o f foreign exchange for spare parts and deteriorating road and
port infrastructure, led to a recessionintimber, cocoa and gold production. Thus value of
timber exports dwindledfrom $91.4 millionin 1975 to $15.3 millionin 1982, reducing
support for the Forestry Department and weakening its ability to police the timber
industryand reserve areas. Cocoa suffered the same fate: low producer prices reduced
investmentincentives and cocoa production fell from its peak ofhalfa milliontons in
1964 to only 150,000 tons in 1983. Reduced income accelerated soil resource miningas
fertilizer and expensive inputs dwindled. This vicious cycle was only halted after the new
Rawlings government took extraordinary measures to halt the slide o f the economy -
specifically a series o f structural adjustment loans and technical assistance aimed at
bolstering export-promoting activities inmining, cocoa and timber.

19.       The economic recovery program was supported by an IMF standby arrangement
o f SDR 500 million and US$890 million from the World Bank, the African Development
Fundandbilateral donors. IDA provided four credits totaling US$250 million, two o f
which financed urgently needed imports o f spare parts, transport equipment, fertilizer and
agro-chemicals while the other two supported rehabilitation o f traditional exports through



12.Codjoe (ref 13) found that migrant farmers in 1984has twice the cropped area of indigenous farmers and by
2000 this had risento three times the area.
13. Codjoe, S NA. 2006. Migrant verses indigenousfarmers. An analysis of factors affecting agricultural land
use inthe transitional agro-ecological zone of Ghana, 1984-2000.Danish J. of Geography 106 (1).
14. Kotey. NA. et alia. Page 17-18. Cereal production also fell by 332,000 tons inthe period 1982-83.An
historic low ofthe Lake Volta reservoir shutdown aluminum production and its foreign exchange earnings.
1.5.www. fao.org/ag/aGl/swlwpnr/reports/y-sflz-gh/gh.htm 0611312007
16.Boni, S. 2006. GhanaianFramers' Lukewarm Reforestation: Environmental degradation, the timber option
and ambiguous legislation. International Colloquium: At the Frontier of Land Issues. Montpellier.

                                                        6


physical investment, polic reformand upgrading of institutions focusing on cocoa, gold
mining, timber, andports.`          Independentevaluation of the outcomes ofthe IDA
assistance for the 1980s' economic recovery program was mixed."

20.      While the impact of the import credits was highly positive -leading to rapid
growth inoutput andrecovery of export earnings-the Export Rehabilitation and
associatedTechnical Assistance Project was only moderately successfbl. Ports and the
cocoa industry were rejuvenatedand benefitedfrom greatly improved roads andtransport
and improved foreign exchangeregime. However, the institutional inertia of the gold and
timber sectorsslowed efficiency improvementsprimarilybecausethe longleadtime
requiredto buildcapacity was out of phase with an adjustment operation. The Timber
Marketing Board was disbanded.A Timber Export Development Board was established
to promote timber sales, exports and trade information, while a new Forest Products
Inspection Bureau ensuredexport standards were met andthat invoices conformed to
product value. At the same time over half of the timber credit of US$26 million was used
to purchasenew logging equipmentand about athird for new saw milling machinery.

21.      The prevalence of weak forestry institutions, allied with the greatly increased
logging capacity enabledby the adjustment program, ledto a resurgenceof Ghana's
forest industry drivenby almost uncontrollable exploitation of the forest that was not
anticipatedby either the government or Bank.l9 Not surprisingly these unanticipated
environmental impacts fuelled international debate about the efficacy of adjustment.20,21
The yearly rate of high forest production rose rapidly and by 1987the actual cut was as
muchas 180to 250 percent ofthe best estimates of sustainableproduction.22Inaddition,
there was a substantialandrapidincreaseinoff-reserve production infarmedareas.
According to the 1988 World Bank President's Report for the Forest Resource
Management Project (FRMP) this acceleratedexploitation was due largely to the
government's inability to control and manage its forests. Combined with the
encroachmentby cocoa and food crop farmers, continued felling at that pace would lead
to the destruction ofthe resourceitself within 20-30 years.23The UK's Overseas
Development Administration (later renamedDepartment for International Development -
DFID) project memorandum of its parallel-financed forestry project stated "urgent action
i s now requiredto sustain the forest resource and protect the en~ironment."~~

22.      Adjustment revampedthe miningsector enabling recapitalization andretooling
and amore liberal legislative and fiscal regime. While the majority of large-scale gold
extraction is from underground mines, about 10percent derives from small-scale open-pit
alluvial mines following 1989 legislation that legalized unregisteredgold mining to



17. GhanaReconstructionImports Credit I&I1 (Cr 1393 and 1573) and GhanaExport Rehabilitation and Export
Rehabilitation Technical AssistanceProjects(Cr 1435, SF-9 and 1436).
18. World Bank. 1991. ProgramPerformanceAudit ReportNo. 9580. OperationsEvaluation Department.
19 World Bank. 1991. op cit.,. paras 5.20-5.21.
20. Lensink,R. 1996. Structural Adjustment in Sub-SaharanAfrica. Longman: NewYork and London.
21. Owusu, J. Henry. 1988.Current Convenience,Desperate deforestation:Ghana's Adjustment Program and the
Forestry Sector.Professional Geographer.50(4), 1999. 413-436.
22. The official allowable annualcut was set at 1.35 million cubic meters.
23. World Bank. 1988. Staff Appraisal Report. GhanaForest ResourceManagementProject. Para 3.03.
24. ODA. UK-Ghana Forest Inventory and ManagementProject Memorandum. December 1988.page 7.

                                                  7


improve regulation and increaserevenue. Small-scale minestypically divert rivers and
use mercury to separate the gold particles from the sediment.The aquatic contamination
producedpoisons to downstreamecosystemsand poses highrisks for humansand
animals. Some of the richest gold and bauxite resourceslie within reserve forest areas,
thus miningnot only threatens biodiversity but also forestry as for example inthe Neung
North Forest Reserve. The high forest area contains over 200 species of mammals, over
200 species of birds and more than2,100 species of plants, 23 of them endemic.

23.     Giventhese challenges, the government initiated a major effort in 1988to place
environmental policy issues on its policy agenda and, assistedby the Bank, aNational
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was approved in 1990. Subsequently, the Bank
agreedto underwrite institutional support for the Environmental Protection Councilto
implementtheNEAPthrough anEnvironmental ResourceManagementProject (ERMP)
to be implementedover the period 1993-1998.Prime NEAP concernswere to introduce
improved land management practices, reduce land degradation and improve management
of areas of importance for the conservation of biodiversity. GEF agreedto provide a grant
to finance a coastal wetlands conservationcomponent. The Natural Resources
ManagementProject (NRMP1998-2000) was designedto follow on the Forest Resource
ManagementProject that was completed in 1988.NRMP was designedas the first of the
three-phase ten-year Natural ResourcesManagementProgram that would absorbthe
follow-on activities initiated under ERMP. Its goal was to address conservation of the
hightropical forests and the natural landcover, woodlands, soil and water of the savanna
by adopting a cross-sectoral approachto strengtheningthe network of conservation areas
inGhanaanddeveloping sustainableuse andmanagementsystemsfor biodiversity
resources. Thus this report assesses the initiation and implementation ofthe Bank's key
environmental activities inGhana. The relationship ofthe assessedprojects to the Bank's
Ghana environmental portfolio is shown inFigure 2.

Figure2: The Bank's environmentalprograminGhana 1988-2007

          1990                         1995    2000         2005              World Bank Executed Projects




                                                                     IDA Forest Resources Project


                                                                    IDA EnvironmentalResources Project
                                                                    GEF Coastal Wetlands Component


                                                                    IDA Natural Resources Projecf
                                                                    GEF Forest Biodiversky Component


     Theprojects assessed in this reporl                            IDA Northern Savanna Conservation Project
                                                                GEF Northern Savanna Conservation Component

                                                       8


2. The Projects

The EnvironmentalResourcesManagement Project

OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTSAND COSTS
24.      The overriding goal was to maintainthe integrity ofthe environment through
support of the NEAP and development of mechanisms for communities to manage their
own resources.At the national levelthe Environmental ResourcesManagement Project
(ERMP) aimed to support the Technical Secretariat of the Environmental Protection
Council to ensure coordination of the actions, informationsystems and monitoring
neededto bringabout sustainablemanagementand use of the environment, andcreation
of public awareness. Table 1 summarizes project objectives, components and costs
including the second objective andits components financed by GEF.

25.      Project financing comprised the IDA credit for US$ 18.1million and grants from
DANIDA, DFID and GEFtotaling US$12.4million. The contributions from DANIDA
and DFID for technical assistance managedby themwas parallel andindependent.
DANIDA's grant supportedthe land-related (fuelwood) activities ofthe project, while
DFID's supportedcapacity-building of central environmental institutions.

PROJECT     DESIGN
26.      Thetripartite approachthat targetedcapacity improvements of central and local
institutions while buildingthe environmental knowledge base andpiloting their
application to management of the environment through community involvement was
relevant and appropriate. Although the close linkage with DANIDAand DFID on their
parallel projects greatly supportedthe increasedimportance being given to the
environment andpartnerships, it createdcoordination problems because of cross-
conditionality and dependenceon timely supply of inputs.25

27.      The apex national institution -the Environmental Protection Council -hadbeen
unable to function effectively because its technical secretariat(EPC/TC) was chronically
understaffedand budgetedgiven its wide ranging inter-sectoral responsibilities and
government's policy to decentralize.26Responsibilities includedadvising on natural
ecosystems, environmental education, marine and coastal ecosystems, water
management, toxic chemicals, industrial pollution and human settlements and
coordinating with four ministries,six specialist departmentsand non-governmental
organizations (NGOs).




25. For example, DANIDA's technical assistance for training was conditioned on the merger of the ago-forestry
unit with the Ministry of Agriculture's land and water unit and dependedon supply of Bank-financed computers.
26. O fthe 219 establishedstaff positions only 108 were filled. Within the technical cadre only about half of the
37 staff were graduatesofwhom 10 hadpost-graduatequalifications. Halfthe annual budget ($338,000 in 1991)
was usedto pay salaries and the balancewas insufficient to dischargeoperations. There were 5 computers, 7
vehicles and a cinemavan.

                                                  9


Table 1: ERMP -Objectives,Components and Costs
    Objectives                                 Components                                Project Costs
                                                                                         US$ millions
                   Develor,an EnvironmentalResource ManagementSvstem                   Planned    Actual
                      Capacity-building:
                    T      Strengthenthe institutionalcapacity of EPC/TS to conduct     7.90
                           environmentalresource planningand management, through
                           provisionof offices, equipmentandhousing, management
                           informationsystems and commissioning of studies
                           regardingresource management.
                           Trainingand provisionof fellowshipsfor central and local
                           governmentalagencies inenvironmental resource                          18.40
                           management.
                      0    Develop and implement a public awareness programon
                           environmental resource management.
                      DevelopEnvironmentalInformation Systems:                          10.40
                           Develop and implement air and water quality monitoring
                           systems and an environmental quality data base.
                      0    Strengthenthe operational capacity of government
                           departmentsto produce analog, digital and landuse maps
                           andprovidetrainingof staff, rehabilitationof facilities and
                           equipment.
(IDA Objectives)      0    Strengthenthe operational capacity ofthe Meteorological
1. Improvethe              Services Department,the LandsCommissionand the Soils
capacity of (a) the        ResearchInstitute,includingtrainingof staff, to prepare
borrower and (b)           and producemaps.
its population                                                                           5.50      5.80
to manage
environmental
resources.                 soil conservation, and biomass enhancing, technologies.
                      0    Train staffof MOA's Department of Crop Services and
                           DepartmentofAgricultural EngineeringServices, NGOs
                           and other entities to supportthe community-basedland
                           resourcemanagement program
                       0   Support operationwithin MOA of a Landand Water
                           ManagementCentralUnit to promote sound landand water
                           resource management.
                       0   Establishand operatea landmanagement fund to encourage
                           sound land management practices by farmers.
                    CoastalWetland Management(GEF Grant)
                      Institutional
(GEF Objective)        0   Demarcate5 coastal wetland sites underthe Ramsar              4.32      3.05
2. Improvethe              Conventionand develop a public awareness program
management of          0   Establishand operatea Wetlands ManagementUnit.                2.75      2.33
Ghana's coastal        0   Establishand operatean investment support fund to
wetlands                   encourageinvestmentsinthe Ramsar Sites.                       0.65      0.46
                      Physical

                                                                                         0.53      0.41
                                                                                         5.90
                                                                            Total Cost  37.96     30.45
28.      Decentralizationand creation o f District Assemblies, District Planning
Authorities and District Environmental Committees also requiredthat the regional offices
o f EPC/TC and local government be strengthenedthrough training and equipment.

                                                       10


Technical assistance at all levels, mostly short-term, was a major project input financed
by DANIDAand DFIDunder separate bi-lateral agreements. This included 250 person
months o f international consultants and 450 personmonths o f local consultancies plus
overseas training for Ghanaians.

The Coastal Wetlands Management Component

29.      While a component o f ERMP it was separately appraised by GEF and called a
`project'in the documents. However, it was indistinguishable from the over-arching
ERMP inimplementation The special attention givento the coastal wetlands reflected
the global importance ofthese areas that were identifiedas a key environmental issue in
the NEAP, and the concern that government action to maintaintheir ecological integrity
would only occur if GEF grant financing was made available.

30.       While the districts o f the coastal zone represent less than7 percent o fthe land
area o f the country, they are home to a quarter o f Ghana's total population. Associated
urbanizationhas pressured basic environmental services such as water supply and land
productivity and lowered the productivity of natural ecosystems. Mangroves, wetlands,
fisheries andwater quality are particularly affected. Thus the decisionto give these areas
special status through formal recognition as Ramsar sites,27prevent pollution and focus
on community approaches to management was timely and appropriate. Interms o f design
this component was similar to that for the community-based approach adopted for land
and water pilot projects except that it would develop capacity inthe Department of Game
and Wildlife within the Ministryof Lands andNatural Resources.

The Natural Resource Management Project

OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTSAND COSTS
31.       The Natural Resources Management Project (NMW)was approved seven months
before closure of the ERMP. It was intendedto be the first phase o f the ten-year three-
phaseNatural Resource Management Program-anAdjustable Program Loan (APL) -
that aimed inthe longer term to protect, rehabilitate, conserve and manage national land,
forest, savanna woodland and wildlife resources ina sustainable manner and to
permanently increase the income o f rural communities who owned these resources.28The
goal o f the first phase was to establish an effective nationalpolicy and institutional
framework for sustainable natural resource management and to develop andtest



27. The Convention on Wetlands, signed in Ramsar, Iran, in 1971, is an intergovernmentaltreaty which provides
the framework for national action and international cooperationfor the conservationand wise use of wetlands
and their resources. There are presently 155 Contracting Partiesto the Convention, with 1,675 wetland sites,
totaling 150million hectares, designatedfor inclusion inthe Ramsar List of Wetlands of International
Importance.Ghanabecame party to the Convention in 1988
28. The 2nd phase(2000-2004) was anticipatedto operationalizemanagementplans for 70% of all forest
reserves; introduce collaborative management of high forest and savannawoodlands; initiate controlled burning
inthe savannazone; completedupdatemanagementplans for Ghana's principle protectedand biodiversity
conservationareas; and establishthe alternative livelihoods investmentfund. The 3rd phase ((2004-2008)
proposed(a) that all forest reserves should be collaboratively managedby local communities; (b) that savanna
management, sustainablefarming and fuel wood production should be devolved to district assemblies; and (c)
fully operationalizedmanagement plans for all 15 wildlife protectedareas.

                                               11


collaborative resourcemanagementsystems, Initial activities concentratedon finalizing
policy reform, undertakinginstitutional restructuring and strengthening, and initiating
baseline surveys andpilot projects to support natural resourcemanagementprograms.

32.      The development objective ofNRMP inthe Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) differs from that stated inthe Project Appraisal Document (PAD):

     0   DCA:The objectives ofthe project areto: (a) promote sustainableuseofthe
         Borrower's national land, forest andwildlife resources; and (b) better conservethe
         richbiodiversity o f its forests.
     0   PAD: isto establishthe institutional andpolicy framework for implementing
         ecologically and socio-economically sustainablemanagement systems for highforest,
         savannawoodland andwildlife resources, incollaboration with localcommunities.
The reasonthe DCA differs from the PAD is that ittook the development objective o fthe
overall 10-year NaturalResourcesManagement Program o fwhich the project was the first
phase.How far this was a mistake is uncertain; the PAD dwells at lengthonthe programand
incomparisonthe objectives ofthe first phaseproject receivedmodest coverage.Although
the original length o fthe project was to be only two years it was extendedto almost five
years andthe DCA objective was never changed. Accordingly IEGhave assessedthe project
according to the DCA objectives. Objectives, components and costs are summarized inTable
2.

33.      Complex project financing and the failure to finalize it at appraisal created
problems for implementation. This was a major omission given the short two-year
implementationperiod, Inaddition to government and the Bank, four multilaterals and
three bilaterals were involved (Table 3). Apart from GEF all other donor fundingwas
parallel and this greatly complicated attempts to coordinate andphase inputs supported
by these donors, particularly as their inputswere not finalized whenthe Bank's project
was approvedby the Board. GEF financing was for six years to cover the first two phases
o f the program even though the Bank's financing o f the second phase was conditional
upon on certaintargets ("triggers") being met inphase one. The amount shown inTable 3
i s for the GEF funding under the first phase only. Total GEF funding over the six years
was expected to be US$8.7 million. It is also seen that the total cost estimated at appraisal
inTable 2 is lessthanthat expected contribution from other donors shown inTable 3; this
i s because not all donors' potential contributions could be allocated to project
components at appraisal.

PROJECTDESIGN
34.      The original proposal was to follow up the recently closed Forest Resources
Management Project with a five-year sector investment project that focused on and
further developed the forestry and wildlife subsectors. However, the impending closure
o f the Environmental Resources Management Project, and the lessons learned from the
Forest Project -to think andplancomprehensively and long-term, ensure effective
institutions, and work collaboratively with communities -caused the Bank to consider
support for a more general environmentalprogram that would seek to mainstream
environmental issues across all projects and sectors, continue systemic reform o f the
sector and assist the government to coordinate external assistance for the environment.

                                                    12


Table 2: NRMP-Objectives,Components and Costs
     Objectives                                   Components                                 Project Costs
                                                                                             US$ millions
                       Environmental management coordination:                                -
                                                                                             Plan   Actual
                       0   Implement EPA's humanresourcedevelopmentplan
                           accordingto the new Strategic Vision                              1.68    0.81
                       0   Develop regional and district environmental information
                           systems
                       0   Prepare anational action plan to combat desertification
                       High Forest Resource Management:
                           Establishand operationalizethe Ghana Forest Service               14.20   14.55
                           (GFS) and Merge the Timber Export DevelopmentBoard
                           and the ForestproductsInspectionBureauto form the
                           Timber Industry DevelopmentBoard
                           Introduce a forest certification and computerizedlog
                           tracking systemand undertakea logexport ban study

1. Promote                 Prepare and publish aNational Forestry Plan

sustainable use of:        Prepare 12priority ReserveForestManagementPlans and
                           analyze the costhenefit of collaborative management in6

(a)the national land       of these areas; initiate forestry pilot in2 off-reserve districts
                           Establisha central bushfre detectionsystem and green

(b) forest and             frebreak program in5 reserves
                           Design a financing mechanism, legal framework and
(c) wildlife resources     operatingpolicies andprocedures for private sector
                           plantation development
                       Savanna Resource Management:                                          4.50    3.90
                       0   Establisha multidisciplinary SavannaResource
                           ManagementCenter and complete an assessment of the
                           natural resources inthe savanna zone
                       0   Plan and implement 6 community-basedresource
                           management pilots on-reserve and in6 priority watersheds
                           off-reserve
                        0  Complete a survey of wood fuel marketsand organize a
                           national workshop
                       Wildlife Resource Management:                                         3.20     1.35
                        0  Restructurethe Wildlife Department(WD) and build its
                           capacitythrough recruitment and training; develop WD
                           extensioncapacity to support district and community-level
2. Better conserve         conservationand management
the rich                0  Revise ProtectedArea managementplans and
biodiversity               operationalizethem
of Ghana's              Biodiversity Conservation:                                           2.30     1.84
forests                 0  Identify 25 Globally Significant Biodiversity Areas
                        0  EstablishaBiodiversity Advisory Group to train GFS and
                           WD staff to implementcollaborative management
                        0  Demarcateprovenancereserveswithin production forest
                           reserves and define operationalmodalities for alternative
                            livelihood investmentprogramsacceptable to all                             -
                           stakeholders                                                      3.10
                                                       Physical and Price Contingencies

                                                                                Total Cost   28.80   22.55

                                              13


Table 3: NRMP Project Financingwas Complex(US$ millions)



Biodiveisity Conservation                      GEF                   2.10       1.80      86
HighForest Management                          DFID                  8.90      11.70     130
Savannah ResourceManagement                    DANIDA                 1.29      1.55     120
Plantationsubcomponent                         AfDB                   1.03      0.0       0
HighForest Management                          EU                     1.29      0.0       0
Savanna subcomponenttree planting              World FoodProgram     0.5 1      0.0       0
Wildlife and Institutional Strengthening       Netherlands            1.79      0.0       0
All componentsand support                      Governmentof Ghana    2.20       0.53      25
Contingencies                                  IDA and GEF           3.10



35.      The program was designedto develop institutions to support and encourage
community and other private sector involvement insustainablemanagement of key
natural resources, and helpreduce poverty inthe more disadvantaged rural areas. To
embracethese ideasthe Bank chose to use adaptableprogram lending as it gave greater
freedom to sequence policy initiatives, institutional development, pilot resource
management programs, and at the same time allow investments inrelevant civil works,
goods and services.

36.      Accordingly, the program adopteda strategy encompassingfour mainthemes:

    e    Production: to stimulateprivate investment inplantations off reserve and in
         degraded forest reserves and encourage efficiency inlogging and wood
         processing.
    e    Protection: to establish specialbiological protection areas within forest reserves
    e    Collaboration: to support community-based high forest, savannahwoodland and
         wildlife resource management, and
    e    Institutional: to promote better coordination betweenministries and agencies in
         management and monitoring of environmental resources and increasetheir
         capacity.

37.      Project components inPhase I,the NRMP, separatelytargeted the two major
ecological zones - high forest and savanna   - wildlife resourcemanagement,   andthe cross-
cutting institutional issues of coordinating environmental managementand biodiversity
conservation.

38.      GEF support was to be implementedby the Bank over 6 years inthree phases.
The first two-year phase underNRMP Iwas to focus on biodiversity conservation inthe
high forest areas. On satisfactory completion, a secondphase was to extend resource
management country-wide over the four years of the proposedNRMP 11.The GEF grant
targeted six subcomponents:

    e    Establishment of a biodiversity advisory group inMinistry of Landand Forests
         through the provisionof technical advisory services

                                                       14


        Implementation of key elements of the National Forest Protection Strategy and
        the National Biodiversity Strategy and strengtheningthe capacity of the GFS and
        FDparticularly inconservation andcommunity-based participation
        Baseline surveys to identify and demarcate GBSAs
        Identification and demarcation of "Provenance Reserves" withinthe production
        forest reserves.29
        Establishment and operation of an "Alternative Livelihood Investment Fund"
        through the promotion, design, appraisal, supervision and evaluation of
         subprojects and financial support for communities living inGBSAs, and
         Strengtheningthe capacity of WD inwildlife managementand conservation
        through the provision oftechnical advisory services, civil works andtraining.

3. Implementation

IMPLEMENTING        ARRANGEMENTS
39.       EMRP.The EPC/TS, which was renamedthe Environmental ProtectionAgency
(EPA) in 1994, was the lead agency charged with coordinating implementation and
procurement. Project activities were grouped according to outputs associatedwith the
three mainproject components and oversight was delegatedto five specialist Project
OperationsCommittees covering environmental quality, landinformation, coastal
wetlands management, landand water management, and studies andinvestigations.
Memoranda of Understanding with the six organizations responsiblefor the technical
aspects of the project definedthe scope of work and financing arrangement^.^'

40.      GEF. The GEFwetlands componentwas implementedby the Ministry of Lands
and Forest's Department of Game and Wildlife (later renamedthe Wildlife Department.)
Itwas expectedthat the Wildlife Clubs of Ghanawould be contractedto managepublic
awareness campaigns and community mobilizationand that other NGOs would actively
participate inproject activities and their review. Technical assistance to assist capacity-
buildingwas to be provided by DFIDand DANIDA but the inputsof other donors was
not finalized before project approval and subsequentlylapsed.

41.      NRMP. Overall project coordination was through an inter-agency Project
Coordination Committee chairedby the technical director of The Ministryof Landsand
Forests(MLF)that was the leadimplementation agency responsiblefor policy and
institutional aspects. Later mineswere placedunder MLF and it became the MLFM. The
EPA was responsiblefor coordination of environmental management. Under the MLFM
theNRMP's highforest, forest resourcemanagementoff-reserves andbiodiversity
conservation activities were to be managedby the proposedautonomous Forestry
Service, while the Wildlife Departmentwould be responsible for wildlife resource



29. "Provenance Reserves" are high biological priority zones within production forestswhere logging and other
consumptive uses were to be either eliminated or very tightly regulated(PAD para48.)
30. The organizationswere: Institute of Aquatic Biology; the Water ResourcesResearch Institute; the Remote
SensingApplications Unit; the Soils ResearchInstitute; the Meteorological ServicesDepartment; and the Lands
Commission.

                                                     15


management. A new Savanna Resources Management Center located inTamale was
staffed from the four participating mini~tries.~'Investments inplantation development
and wood industry restructuringwere to be handledby the private sector. Day-to-day
management was handledby a project coordination unit successfully established under
the earlier Forest Resources Management Project.

IMPLEMENTATION          EXPERIENCE
42.      The difficulty o f ensuring coordination o fthe multiple organizations
implementingthese projects andmaintaining focus on expected outcomes was the major
problem. This was exacerbated by inadequate counterpart funding -a reflection o f low
government buy-into the projects given its preoccupationwith macroeconomic issues
andrevenue generating activities -that adversely affected most activities inbothprojects
and the GEF subcomponents. Government funds were generally released late and
typically rangedbetween a quarter and half o f the amount agreed at negotiations. High
turnover o f government staff and continued lack o f specialist expertise plaguedboth
projects further underminedtimely and efficient implementation. Poor synchronization o f
donor supporting activities slowed their disbursement. The highreliance on external
fundingand expertise, anduneven and inadequate localtechnical capacity inthe various
responsible agencies slowed implementation. Delayed establishment o f project cadres
andtraining hinderedcoordination amongthe five participating ministries; however, this
improved as capacity expanded but remained a problem. Many o f these coordination and
humanresource problemswere amplified inthe field as central government agencies
started working with local governments, communities andNGOs.

43.      ERMP.Lateproject start-upand shortages ofcounterpart funds delayed
implementation o f some major project activities and these were not completed. Creation
o f the EPA duringthe first year o f the project completely changed the managerial set-up,
leaving the post o f Executive Director vacant for the first year, and staffing misaligned
with its new responsibilities. As a result the project lacked leadership andcoordination at
its most critical time. The uncertain supply o f counterpart funds made planningdifficult -
inthe two year period 1996-97 government contributions were only 15 percent, and in
the last year o f the project none were received, The average for the whole project was
only 20 percent. The landand water management component was a year late instarting
becausethe Borrower's lack o f familiarity with Bank procurement delayed purchase of
computers and equipment that were a condition o f DANIDA's technical assistance.

44.      Institutional strengthening o f EPA was much slower than planned due to
understaffing causedby the difficulty inattracting and retaining well-qualified and
experienced staff because o f a poor incentive package compared with the growing private
sector. As a result technical assistance was misaligned with staffing availability and, in
many cases, substitutedfor them.Thus local capacity buildingwas less than planned.
While EPA was eventually successful at coordination, inadequate financial and
procurement management slowed implementation. Thus, for example, delayed
procurement o f equipment for air and water quality monitoring delayed data acquisition



3 1. Ministry of Lands and Forests; Ministry of Foodand Agriculture; Ministry of Environment, Science and
Technology; andthe Ministry o f Mines and Energy.

                                               16


andprocessing. Field activities lackedharmonization amongthe contributing agencies.

45.     GEF. The GEF wetlands component suffered from lack o fcounterpart funds,
delayed recruitment of key staff, weak communication between finance controllers,
technical assistanceand management, and the WLD's lack o f familiarity with Bank
procurement procedures. Recruitment of site staff was delayed by 30 months. Contracts
o f most civil works under this component performed poorly requiringeither retendering
or abandonment o f works. Local funding appears to have been under-budgeted: while
$1.1 millionwas agreed at appraisal, the amount requested by the WLD to do the work
was $4.4 million. Despite this only 71 percent o fthe appraisal amount, $0.79 million was
actually released to the project and in 1995 there was no counterpart fund. Exacerbated
by these problemsthe GEF component was extendedby two years and eventhenthere
were no counterpart funds inthe last year (1999) whenthe lack o f GEF procedures to
award grants directly to NGOs came to light. Enablingthe WLD to do this instead caused
more delay. Implementation accelerated once subcomponent responsibility was
transferred inthe last year o fthe project from EPA to the MLFNwho were better able to
manage field activities. Eventhen the GEF grant utilization was slow and $0.81million
hadto be cancelled. A proposal to use the undisbursedfunds to create a trust fund was
turned down by Bank management becauseof unsatisfactory progress. An independent
reviewby QAG stated that the GEF component should have been either radically
restructured or suspended given government's poor commitment to environmental
management.

46.     NRMP. The major problemwas that the project was too complex and hadtoo
many actors for its short two-year implementation period - as a result it was extended by
33 months and thus provided continued support for the longer-term GEF component that
also suffered delays. Initiation o f policy reforms and their processing andratification at
Cabinet and Parliament, as so often inBank projects, faced far more hurdles than
anticipated and they were unable to keep to the ambitious schedule. A strong timber
industrylobby slowed down the implementation ofthe reforms (e.g. benefit sharing,
taxation and rationalizationo f fiscal measures.) These problems were exacerbated by
poor donor co-ordination and the failure to create monitoring, tracking and evaluation
systems within MLFNall o f which undermined effective management and coordination.
Thus a number o fthe components operated inisolation-particularly the biodiversity
components. The GEF component underNRMP effectively lost its identity due to
insufficient focus on tracking achievement o f its specific objectives. A lack o f
appropriate expertise and experience greatly hinderedcapacity development at the local
level. Inmost respect these issues were a repeat o f the problems experience with ERMP.

 Monitoringand Evaluation

47.     ERMP. Overall M&Eis rated as modestwith severalshortcomings. M&E
was not explicitly covered at appraisal but subsumed inthe detailed list o f inputsand
outputs expected from each component. Where these were physical, such as maps, they
were clearly defined and monitorable indicators were available. Training and related
technical assistance inputswere well defined. However, no formal M&E system was
established to monitor accomplishments, outcomes and impacts o f the institutional
aspects of the project or capacity building. Implementationand utilization o f the modest

                                                    17


M&Eestablishedprovidedadequate information to track progresson inputs, outputs and
expendituresand take corrective actions. Itwas clearly expectedthat the Environmental
ResourceManagement Systemwould produce datathat could be usedto measure
environmental outcomes butthe actual details were left with EPA.

48.       GEF.OverallM&Eis rated substantial. While rated highon design,
implementation slipped from substantialto modest over the life of the project, and
subsequent utilizationhas beenmodest. Incontrastto the ERMP, the GEFwetlands
intervention put a highpremiumon M&E, and clearly definedindicators that would
measureecosystemhealth and describe the requirementsfor baseline creation ingreat
detail. Inlarge part this reflects the prominent role of environmental specialists during
appraisal; suchatechnically prominent role is seldom seen innon-GEF projects and
probably accounts for their generally less comprehensiveM&E arrangementsand
indicators. While comprehensive baselineswere establishedfor all five Ramsar sites by
1998,subsequentenvironmental M&Eby government agencies was fragmentary and was
heavily criticized at mid-termreview. Socio-economic monitoring, incontrast to
biological monitoring, was poor. While severalNGOs (e.g. Birdlife International) have
continued routine monitoring this tends to be narrowly focused on specific genera and an
integrated approachis lacking. Conversely, routine monitoringof inputsand outputs was
good.

49.       NRMP. OverallM&Eis rated as negligible.Although a hlllist of input,
output and APL outcome indicators was developedat appraisalthe government was slow
to staff the M&E activities. Baseline studies were not done, utilizationwas ad hoc, and
reporting was sporadic. But because the phase Iproject was so short, its specific
indicators were primarily outputs as it was assumed that development outcomes and
impacts would mature inthe second and third phases o f the APL. As the subsequent
phases ofNRMP were cancelledfew of the longer term outcomes were achieved.

4. Project Evaluations

Relevance of Objectives

50.       The objectivesof the ERMPand its GEFcomponentwere highly relevant
and remained so at the time of this assessment. The ERMP was designedto support
Ghana's NEAP andNRMP continued this assistance. The introduction of community
participation and managementwas highly relevant to the Bank's earlier experience in
Ghanaand the mainthrust of Ghana's Environmental Action Plan. Interms of sustainable
landand agricultural practicesthe projects resonatedstrongly with the priority reforms
identifiedfor the 1990s inthe 1991 GhanaMediumTermAgricultural Development
Strategy.32More generally these included greater sectoral coordination to reduce



32. World Bank. 1991,GhanaMediumTerm Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS): An Agendafor
SustainedGrowthand Development(1991-2000). 2 volumes. ReportNo. 8914-GH. The strategy, inter alia, also
emphasized the needto improvethe enabling environment for private sector participation,provideamore
efficient marketingsystem and improvethe rural transport systems and infrastructure. Interestinglythese same

                                                    18


duplication of effort and increasetransparency of trade-offs among subsectors; increased
public sector planning andimplementation capacity and increaseddecentralization and
beneficiary participation through promotion of grassrootsorganizations indecision-
making. Specific environmental priorities includedbetter knowledge o f soil status and
agroclimates and actions to reversesoil nutrient depletion through incentives to increase
fallow land, and maintenanceof closed forest and woodland canopies to reduce
degradationo f soil physical properties.

51.     The 1995Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) strongly supportedactionsthat
would acceleratedGhana's growth and focus on regions and sectors which showed the
greatestpromise. Identification andbetter understandingof growth and environment
linkages, using a broadly participative processwas key to this strategy.

52.     The conclusionsofthe 1996NationalCapacity Assessment that formed abuilding
block for the 1997 CAS highlighted the need for improvements to local capacity:
"Ghana's capacity to handle various technical and managerial activities in most sectors
of the economy has worsened in the last two decades,and efforts to rebuild these have
not been successful." Specifically it noted that the root causes of this decline were the
lack of investment inthe institutions and processes that form capacity; and the slow
destruction o fthe enabling environment for maintaining existing capacities. And it
recommendedthat the Government'sefforts should focus on capacity retention, and that
Donors support capacity formation. The 1997 CAS endorsedthis approachinits
recommendationthat improved environmental management inrural areas was neededto
reduce deforestation and landresourcedegradation while notingthat implementation of
biodiversity conservationpolicies, and mitigationmeasures (including reforestation) were
critical for sustainablerural development. The major challenge it identified- the lack of
capacity to carry out environmental assessments, planning, and monitoringat the district
level, as well as the low level o f community awareness and understandingof
environmental issues -were embodied inthe ERMP andNRMP.

53.     The 2004 CAS was built onthe findings of extensiveconsultations with the
government andthe first Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS). It supported
deepeningthe harmonization among development partners, a practice mainstreamed
within the assessedprojects, and greater inclusion of rural areas into national
development. Itemphasizeddevelopment and marketing of agricultural commodities,
improved land use, and greater attention to environmentally-friendly agronomic
practices.Agricultural development strategies, bothintraditional and non-traditional
crops, not only neededto be guided by market demandbut also by their environmental
soundness. Subsequently, the 2006 CAS reaffirmed the centrality of sound natural
resourcemanagement ineconomic terms. Overall, the annual cost to the economy of
inadequateattention to sustainableenvironmental and natural resourcemanagementwas
estimatedto be about 5 percent of GDP because forests, wildlife, livestock and fisheries
and landremainedstressedby poor managementand overexploitation.




themes are seen as prioritiesinthe 2004 CAS andthe 2003 GhanaPovertyReductionStrategy suggesting little
progressinthese areas inthe previousdecade.

                                             19


54.     GEF support for the biodiversity and wildlife component ofthe projects was
globally relevant to conservation of tropical forest ecosystemsby strengthening the
network of conservation areas inGhana and reinforcing the development of sustainable
use and management systems for biodiversity resources. By financing the incremental
cost of addressingglobal and regional biodiversity Conservationpriorities within the
framework of the NationalBiodiversity Strategy andthe Forest Protection Strategy, GEF
funding would complement Bank and bilateral donor-financed programs for development
of forest production systemsthat are environmentally and socially sustainable, and for
management of protected areas.

55.     Within Ghanathe GEF wetlands objective was andremains highly relevant to the
conservationconcerns expressedinthe Save the Seashore BirdsProject sponsoredby the
UK'sRoyalSociety for the ProtectionofBirdsandGhana's CoastalZone Indicative
management Planpreparedas part of NEAP.

56.     The overall relevance of NRMP's objectives is rated high. Promotion of
sustainablelanduse was essential given the critical issues relating to landrights, access
and use of landresources (paras 11to 17). The focus on sustainableuse of forests and
wildlife resources, and conservation of biodiversity is also highly relevant.

Relevance of Design

57.     ERMP. The centralization of environmental regulation was highly relevant as it
put inplacemechanismsfor undertakingEIAs, andreviewing andacting uponthem.
However, omittingthe forestry sector because the Bank and DFIDwere dealing with this
separately (para 2l), a substantial issue given the criticalposition of sound forest
                      was
managementpolicy and planning to environmental sustainability. This was a major
shortcoming inBank design and donor coordination designthat later undermined
establishment of a fully integrated approachto environmental managementunder ERMP,
apoint also made by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group inits 1998 Review of
Biodiversity Projects inAfrica. Thus the relevance of the design to improvingthe
capacity of the borrower to manage environmental resources is rated as modest.

58,     The role ofNGOs to facilitate community participation and availability of
environmental specialist and knowledge dissemination was important given
government's capacity constraintsand the objective to empower communities on
environmental issues. The modernization and upgrading of governmental organizations
and facilities responsiblefor environmental data (mapping, landand water resources)was
necessaryto improve geographic scoping andplanning to define and mitigate
environmental problems. The aim to create anew landand water management unit within
the Ministry ofAgriculture to pilot newapproachesto environmental managementwithin
communities was consonant with the objectives of NEAP. The initial year building
capacity and knowledge within MOA was to be followed up with a round of pilot
projects to test and refine methodology that would be evaluatedat Mid-Term Review
(MTR) before being scaledup. This was sensible and pragmatic. However, by project
completion it became clear that project design did not bridge the barrier betweencentral
agenciesand the communities (paras 73 to 75). The relevance of project design to
improve the capacity of the population to manage its resources is rated as modest.

                                                   20


59.      GEF. The design adoptedwas appropriateas it identifiedlocalcapacity-building,
support for local employment generationandknowledge dissemination as the key factor
to the success of wetland management. However, the design was not effective in
delivering results to communities because it didnot address institutional failings (see
paras 76 to 89). The overall relevance of GEF's project design is modest.

60.      NRMP Design. The overall relevance ofNRMP's design is rated modest. The
APL was an appropriate instrumentgiven past problems -it potentially avoided
continued support of investment whenthe reform process failed. However, the
comprehensive and cross-sectoral design neededto redress the partialapproachinearlier
projects proved to be overly ambitious inthe two years allocated for the first phase of the
APL. More time should have beenallowed to build government commitment. The
attention given to designing the APL and getting it approved appears to have reducedthe
attention to the managerial practicalities ofthe first phase. This was a notable failing
given the difficultieswith the implementation of ERMP.

61.      The focus ofthe NRMP project on forests, wildlife and biodiversity was
necessary butnot sufficient to ensure soundmanagement.The omission of reform of land
institutions, including landrights inproject designto achieve the sustainable use of land
was a notable omission leading to anegligible rating of design relevance. Incontrast the
relevance of the design of the component to support the forest objective was highly
relevant. Design of wildlife components were modestly relevant as it only partially
targetedthe key stakeholders (para 115). Design relevanceof the biodiversity component
i s ratedmodest as it did not adjust to the decentralization processand reformo f the FC.

62.      Table 4 summarizes the ratings for the relevanceof eachproject. Equalweight is
given to the relevanceof objectives and project design.

Table 4: Relevance Summary ratings for each project
                        -
                         Project                          Objective   Design
                                                          Weight 0.5  Weight 0.5    Overall

  Environmental ResourcesManapement Project
       1  (a) Improve the capacity ofthe borrower to       High       Modest      Substantial
          manageenvironmentalresources
       1  (b) Improve the capacityofthe population to      High       Modest      Substantial
          manage its environmentalresources
      2.  GEF: Improve the managementof Ghana's            High       Modest      Substantial
          coastal wetlands
                        ERMP Overall Outcome rating        High       Modest      Substantial
  Natural Resources Manapement Project
       1  (a) Promotesustainable use of national land      High       Negligible    Modest
       1  (b) Promotesustainable use of forests            High        High          High
       1  (c) Promote sustainable use of wildlife          High       Modest      Substantial
      2.  Better conserve the richbiodiversity of Ghana's  High       Modest      Substantial
          forests
                        NRMP Overall Outcome rating        High       Modest      Substantial

                                                     21


Efficacy

ENVIRONMENTAL         RESOURCES       MANAGEMENT         PROJECT
63.      Overall efficacy is rated as modest with some shortcomings. The objective to
improve the capacity o f the Borrower and its population to manage environmental
resources depended on development o f an environmental resources management system
and introduction o f land and water management with a focus on community-based
approaches. The efficacy o f these components to achieve the objectives i s discussed in
detail below.

Objective1 (a): Improvementto the national capacityfor environmentalmanagement
and coordinationwassubstantially achievedwith some shortcomings.Efficacy is rated
substantia1.

64.      The EPA i s now a more effective environmental management agency than it was
before the project with improved and better qualified staff. It graduated from a policy
makingand advisory functionwhen it was recast as the EPA in 1994. Itis now a
regulatory body with a mandate to advise on and initiate environmental legislation,
facilitate cross-sectoral cooperation on environmental concerns and programs, ensure
enforcement o f environmental laws and regulations, issue permits and implement
programs to maintain and improve the environmental integrity o f Ghana. A governing
Board o f 12membersis drawn from the heads o f the major ministries, the private sector
and has one representative o f parliament. Internally it is managed by the Executive
Director assisted by 7 Directors. Inaccordance with government decentralization policy,
EPA has established offices inall 10 regions to provide support for groups o f District
Environmental Management Committees -a challenging task given the number o f
DEMCs involved and logistics.33The successful reform o f EPA i s the result o f continued
donor technical and financial support for reform - particularly DFID andEUpartners -
andthe synergy this generated can only be attributed partially to the Bank's work.

65.      From an organization o f only 74 staff in 1991 EPA now has about 260 staff o f
which 60 percent are administrative and support staff, While EPA benefitedgreatly from
the DFID support that provided technical and managerialtraining until 1996, it took
several years to reorientate most senior staff from their academic outlook to be effective
EPA managers and coordinators. Even so, the 105 professional staff are considerably
fewer thanthe 232 that were considered necessary to discharge its responsibilities
following the Price Waterhouse management review that provided the basis o f the EPA
organization. Mainreasons for the staff shortfall are the low level o fjob satisfaction, low
salaries, non-existent incentive packages, highstaff turnover and the lack o f political will
to acknowledge the importance o f environmental ~tewardship.~~More recent and rapid
growth o f the private sector has also posed a serious challenge to civil service
employment generally and for the environment inparticular.And despite considerable
pressure from its development partnersan adequately resourced long-term human



33. Inthe Ashanti Region, for example, the Kumasi office has 4 professionaland 3 support staff to service
eighteenDEMCs.
34. EPA.Annual Report2001.

                                                        22


resourcedevelopmentplanremains elusive primarily because of uncertain and inadequate
financing -a symptom of continued low government ownership.

66.       As aresult ofbudget and staffing shortfalls EPA has experiencedconsiderable
difficulty inbalancing the increasing demandfor its services, the main casualties being
inadequateresources for coordination and outreachactivities and for liaison with the
regions and districts. The need to generate income from fees andpermits override
strategic staffing considerationsrelated to non-remunerative activitie~.~'These include
more costly biodiversity conservation and grass roots awareness-raising - costly because
of logistics and time neededto develop partnerships.Inaddition, most of the permit and
regulatory proceduresare for highly visible activities, 80 percent or more of which are in
the Greater Accra area. Politically, EPA effectivenessisjudged by the priority given to
servicing these demandson its doorstep. Inthat sense EPA's role reflects the priority
given it by government. While the visibility of the EPA shows Ghanato be aprogressive
nation, budget problems lowers its effectivenessat regulating natural resource
exploitation.

67.       Despite these problems EPA is now nationally recognized as the apex institution
providing environmental leadershipand cross-sectoral coordination on the environment.
Achievements continued to grow after those reported at project completion in 1999as
exemplified inits Annual Reportspublishedfrom 2001. Inpart this is the result of the
successfulimplementation of a co-management approachto environmental regulation
and enforcement(Box 1).

Box 1:SuccessfullyImplementingEnvironmentalStewardship
All new developments have to register with the EPA including submission o f an environmental assessment
which is the basis for an operating permit. Existing industries are expected to produce Environmental
Management Plans every three years to minimize environmental impacts and submit returns o f agreed
indicators o f environmental performance monthly. As other state agencies in Ghana also have regulatory
powers affecting the environment, the EPA has worked inpartnershipwith them to harmonize criteria and
enforcement. Thus, for example the Energy Commission now ensures that all investments it licenses have
prior environmental clearance and permits fiom the EPA. Inrecognition o f these and similar practices,
UNEP gave Ghana an award for its exemplary efforts to implement the Montreal Protocol in 1997. To
hrther the partnership approach, the EPA organized orientation workshops for environmental compliance
staff, police officers and state lawyers o fto raise awareness o f issues and provide guidance on evidentiary
procures and protocols. Inaddition, in 1999 EPA initiated a national environmental awards program that
recognized good environmental practice by industry, typically three awards are given each year.
Source: Tamakloe, Wilson. 2003. State of Ghana's Environment Challenges of Compliance andEnforcementin
MeasuringWhat Matters Proceedingsfrom the INECE-OECDWorkshop on EnvironmentalComplianceand
                          -                                   -

EnforcementIndicators3-4 November 2003, OECD, Paris.




35. The National Environment Fund was establishedunder Part I1of Section 16(1) of the Environmental
Protection Agency Act, 1994Act 490. Under this Act the EPA is authorizedto collect permit fees and
processingcharges for clearance of chemicals and meat`fish; EIA permitting; mining exploration; small-scale
mining permits and tree cutting permits. Fees are paid into the National Environmental Fund (NEF) while
charges are retainedto meet the EPA's functional expenditureoutlay (e.g. monitoring and inspection, screening,
adverts, printing etc). In the period 1995-2001the NEF collected Cedi 2.31 billion (US$ 320,000). O fthis
US$213,000 slightly under 1% was disbursed for environmental education, studies and investigation; 45% was
for humanresource development and the balanceof 54% was for a staff incentive packageapprovedby the
Board in 1988. Processingcharges over the period 199-2001amountedto Cedi 1.4 billionor about US$ 200,000.

                                                       23


68.       The EPA received over 200 permit applications in 1996 and about 36
Environmental Impact Statements (EISs) for review; by 2002 the number of EISs had
risen to about 220 a year and 240 EIA public notices had beencirculated inthe national
newspapersas part of its public dissemination activities. But as with other activities,
official guidance manuals for environmental managementwere not completed due to
budget shortfalls. Despitethis, the EPA is tough on proposalsthat do not meettheir
environmental design standardsas the disputeover the gold mine at Akyem illustrate^.^^

69.       EPA's environmental coordination, awareness and outreach efforts have also
steadily grown but slower thanplanneddue to insufficient budget from government.
These haveranged, for example, from development of the NationalAction Program to
Combat Drought and Desertification, Ghana's State of the Environment Report,
publication of guidelines on the developmentand managementof landfills, the sound
management of health care and veterinary waste, andpesticidesto hosting the terminal
meeting of the FAO-sponsored project on waterweed management inWest African water
bodies. Inaddition to awareness-raisinginthe regions and districts and educational
establishments at all levels, the EPA also broadcastsweekly one hour discussions on FM
Radio inAccra covering topics such as ozone layer depletion, air pollutionandvehicles,
persistent organic pollutants and water pollution.

70.       EnvironmentalInformationSystems (EIS)were initiatedbut problems
remain.Overall the land, water and soil databases andmapping capabilities were
improved by the project through inter-agency agreementson standardsand data
protocols. This was facilitated by the multi-agency Land InformationProject Operation
Committee (LIPOC) that has its secretariatinthe EPA. A more difficult issue that
remainsto be resolved is universal access to these primaryenvironmental data andtheir
use to improve planning and natural resourcesmanagement. This i s for several reasons.
Within the LIPOC network of six partnersthere is a fairly high exchange of data but
amongthose outside it most were unaware of what was a~ailable.~'                      There is no national
meta-databasethat informs agenciesandNGOs what i s available and access
arrangements; and there are very few incentives for collaborative arrangementsamong
agencies unless catalyzed by externally funded sources that rise above the parochial
interest of the agencies "owning" the data.38Ownership represents an effective monopoly
on information and i s an important source of both revenues andpower -while mitigated
by LIPOC for beneficiaries of ERMP it remains aproblem inthe absence of an
independentchampion, As databanking continuesit also increasingly relies on higher



36. The Newmont GhanaGold Company wishes to construct an open pit gold mine inthe Ajennua Bepo Forest
Reserve inGhana's EasternRegion. The EPA, after review ofthe EIA, called for a redesignand this is subject to
ongoing dispute. www.theminingnews.org/news.cfrn?newsID=2330dated 10/17/2006.
37. Best Practicesof Environmental Information systems in Ghana. Programon Environmental Systems in Sub-
SaharanAfrica 1999.Producedby the Center for Environmental Information and Knowledge inAfrica (CIKA)
from material provided by UNEP.
38. Ibid, para 3.5.2. "About 70% of Ghanaianagencieshave a policy for data exchange and release to the public,
It is however not always an easy task to obtain data. For most of these there must be a formal application for
approvalfrom top management...In some instances however, access is unlimited, and at no cost. For those few
intuitions demandingfees, these may be waived in respect of education, researchand EIS institutions. Some o f
the organizationshave the data intheir custodyclassified and thus unavailableto the public without a high level
of authorization."

                                                 24


specification computersand languagesthat are expensive to acquire and maintain, and
there is a shortage of specialist staff andexperiencedmanagersto service external
demand. Inmany respects these findings reflect the fact that two-thirds of the
organizations use most ofthe data they produce in-house and data managementis seen as
a low-level function. The major problemidentifiedby EIS specialists was inadequate
training (60 percent) and uncertain or inadequatefunding (40 percent).39

71.      Itwas intendedthat the databases should beutilizedto improve planning. While
this has occurredat the macro-level incentral institutions, decentralization has raised a
number of new problems unforeseenat appraisal. Specifically the 110district assemblies
have the mandateto develop their own plans involving, among other things, agriculture
andnatural resourcesmanagement. The crux ofthe problem is that these assemblies have
too few resources to support sophisticateddatabase managementhnalysis andneeded
equipment, andthat many agencies assistingthemontechnical issues have overlapping
responsibilities -for example, there are 22 institutions concernedwith landmanagement.
And while public financing and access remainconstraints the private sector is unwilling
to meet the demand for dataprocessingand analysis at the local level.

72.      The most successfulapplication of EISdata inGhanais its use for geographic
information systems (GIS) that allows integration of multiple and overlapping layers of
information. The Survey Departmentestablished a viable Cartographic School under the
project and GIS is the cross-cutting tool they use to train and develop outputs relevant to
planning. The most notable success is the Remote SensingApplications Unitwithin the
University o f Ghana.This is a dynamic, commercially-orientated organization that offers
services on contractual and cost-recovery basis. Currently it i s aiming to achieve
complete financial and managerialautonomy by 2011-perhaps an ambitious goal given
the muchreduceddonor commitment to projects andindividualinstitutions with the
introduction of budget support lending modalitie~.~'

Objective I (b): Improvement of the capacity of thepopulation to manage
environmental resources waspartially achieved. Efficacy is rated modest.
73.      Achievements in land and water management were modest The main issue is
that this becamean enclave activity divorced from the mainstream of EPA's coordination
andthe goal of integrated environmental management.While the Landand Water
ManagementUnit was createdunder the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, albeit with
considerable delay, it did not streamline operations as the Agro-forestry Unit continued to
function independently and duplicated many of its functions. Understaffing, poor cross-
support from the agricultural extensionunits, lack of a rural sociologist and soil and
water specialist forced an over-reliance on lower-level field extension staff that were ill-
trained for the integrated and participative approachenvisagedat design, and this ledto
mixed success inthe field. And because of these problems the LandManagementFund
(US$4,000 per community) proved difficult to operate and manage. Interviews inthe
field about this component canbe summarizedas "lack of a sharedvision."



39. Ibid.para4.10.6.
40. Centre for Remote Sensingand Geographic InformationServices, University of Ghana.CERGIS' Five-Year
Strategic Plan(2003-07). Accra. June 2003.

                                                      25


74.       The delayed start and institutional problems caused a reduction inthe number of
targeted communities from 68 and only 42 were reached. Eventhen, it was found that
because community landuse coverage differed from ecologicalhydrological units that
the area impact was too small (and sometime negated by surrounding communities'
activities4') to be effective inchanging entrenched and traditional ways o f managing local
resources. The top-down `blueprint' approach adopted was also found to be insensitive to
widely differingcultural practices and norms that required a deeper understanding o f
local attitudes and problems. Indeed,as has been concluded often inother countries, the
final Bank supervision mission recommended that a change to a watershed management
involving all communities inan integrated approach should be adopted. Apart from a few
pilots independentlyinitiated by NGOs, none are implementedunder government
projects or programs.

75.       At the time ofthis assessmentthe LandandWater Unitwas active withthree
senior staff at the center with about 250 staff based inthe districts providing mostly
technical assistanceon an as-needed basis. DANIDA assistance continued until 2003 and
subsequently there have beensufficient project-related budgets from donors andNGOs -
but not systematic central or local budget support -to sustain operations. This, andthe
localized and ad hoc nature o fthe unit's activities, demonstrates that landand water
management activities are not yet part o f a comprehensive and mainstreamed
management approach to sustainable land development. Environmental management
remains fragmented.

GEFCOASTALWETLANDS                   MANAGEMENT         COMPONENT
Objective2: Improved coastal wetlands management waspartially achieved. Efficacy is
rated modest.
76.       A national strategy for the management o fGhana's wetlands was approvedin
2000.42The strategy emphasizes a participatory approach inwetlandmanagement, wise
use to enhance sustainability and minimize conversion to other uses, application o f strict
rules andprotection to maintainthe sites and their biodiversity, and the harmonization o f
traditional use rights with international best practice and government policy. This built
upon 1999 Wetland Management Regulations that define the six Ramsar sites as
protectedareas that are now surveyed, demarcated by pillars and ~ignposted.~~                      Within
these Ramsar areas District Assemblies, inclose consultation with traditional clan and
community leaders, have passedlocal by-laws regulatinguse o f these areas. Even so,
many communities complainedthat the Ramsar areas were imposeduponthemwith
almost no consultation or compensation.

77.       Inpractice, inthe non-urbanwetlands, Ramsarlisting only codified



41. For example some communitiescontinuedto set fire to the savannafollowing traditional management
practice; better landtillage practicescoveredonly parts o f watersheds andthus the adverse impacts of erosion
were not stopped.
42. Managing Ghana's Wetlands: A National Wetlands ConservationStrategy. Ministry of Lands and Forests.
1999.
43. Wetlands Management (Ramsar Sites) Regulations, 1999. L.11659 issuedunder section 11of the Wild
Animals PreservationAct 1961(Act 43.) The total areaprotectedis 170,164.48 ha. One ofthe Ramsar sites
existed as the Owabi Wildlife Sanctuary before the ERMP.

                                                       26


environmentally conservativetraditional managementpracticesthat maintain
communities' management of natural resourceson which they rely for livelihoods.
Possibly the biggest impact has beento legalize communities' traditional authority over
access to local resources by outsiders. Insufficient attention was given to identifying
economic development opportunities and implementing planned socio-economic baseline
studies and their subsequent monitoring and evaluation. The incentive structure for
communities to actively co-manage the wetlands remains elusive.

78.      The achievement ofthe principalmanagementobjective to maintain or restorethe
ecological integrity of these wetland ecosystemswhile enhancingtheir productivity is
moderately satisfactory at best -the rate of decline has on average beenslowed and
public awareness increased.The integrity of these wetlands remains under threat despite
the project. Most of the wetlands are dependent on upstreamcatchmentsfor their water
supplies.Continued degradationof these hinterlands either by expansionof agriculture,
logging andor urbanization upsets the natural hydrological and nutrient balanceofthe
wetlands with potentially adverse consequences for their productivity. While a
considerablebody of baseline researchand studieswas financed early inthe project it
tendedto be academically-oriented andgave less attention to layingthe foundation,
principles andcriteria for a sound ecological monitoring and evaluation system.44The
subsequent health of the wetlands ecosystemscannot be determineddue to the paucity of
more recent monitoring and evaluation to discern cause and effect.

79.      While the GhanaWildlife Society and Birdlife International have undertaken
surveys of species for more than 10years at all the sites independently of the project
(Table 5) and results look very favorable, there are considerable technical difficulties in
relating these data to the health of the wetlands and inferringimpact. This i s because the
avian populations of GhanaRamsar sites are transient andtheir numbersdependonthe
integrity of the West African flyway as awhole, seasonal changes induced by climatic
variability andthe integrity of breeding and wintering areas at the flyway's terminii.

Table 5: Autumn peak counts of waders and terns at Ghana's Ramsar sites
Class of Birds           I986               1987               I992               1997                 1998
Waders                   46,3 19           37,581             39,235              71,551             124,505
Terns                    96,030            82,046             64,480             146,428            202,445

Source: GhanaWildlife Society. 1999.

80.      Systematic monitoring and evaluation of non-avian biodiversity (apart from
small-scale academic research) is not available. Fieldinterviews revealed, for example,
that despite significant information campaigns by Ghana Wildlife and the Wildlife
Departmentunderthe project, that killing of seaturtles -a major problem highlighted at
appraisal- and manatees continues because of inadequateofficial policing, local culture
(Box 2), poverty and damage done to fishing nets.45Over-fishing, including poisoning,



44. Additionally only 9 ofthe 17 studiesand investigations plannedwere completedbecauseo f funding and
humanresource constraints.
45. Sea turtles derivatives feature prominently in most West African traditional medicines. Fretey, J.,
Segniagbeto, G.H, and Soumah, M.2007. Presence Of Sea TurtlesIn TraditionalPharmacopoeiaAnd Beliefs In

                                                       27


was reported also by several community leaders due to increased demand. Erosion o f
dune protectionand the sedimentation from upstream has reportedly had an adverse
effect on the productivity and biodiversity o f the Keta lagoon.

Managementof protectedareas is weak
81.      The WLD is under-equipped andunder-fundedfor the task, again reflecting low
government ownership. Thus, for example, the most important wetland area, the Keta
Lagoon Complex covering 101,023 ha located inthe delta o fthe River Volta, has only 2
officers and 4 field staff to manage the area. Inaddition, the Keta Ramsar sites cover four
administrative districts and site management committees thus increasingthe transaction
costs. O f the 5 1 staff posted to the Ramsar sites duringthe project budget cuts have
reduced these to 25 and four o f those were on extended study leave during IEG's field
visit. Fieldwork is handicapped also by old and unreliable vehicles and lack o fboats and,
giventhe circuitous routes for the larger wetland areas; this lowers the operational
effectiveness o f the few staff on duty.

82.      Generally, field staff o fthe WLD enjoy a good working relationship with the
district authorities who are mostly very supportive. However, WLD has nojurisdiction
over landas this is the prerogative o f clan elders; WLD's role is applying the law
regardingwildlife. Accordingly, their primarytools for wetlands management are visits
aimed at persuading communities that environmental conservation i s beneficial. In
several areas WLD has worked with the NGOs Green Earth and Ghana Wildlife on
small-scale projects, such as mangrove regeneration, improvement o f drainage, and
apiary. Overall success inco-management, however, is constrained by the monetary
poverty o fmany communities            - their low levels o f education preclude self-help and
forces a heavy reliance on harvestinglocal resources.

Box 2: Traditionalhuntingof sea turtles occurs inthe CentralandWestern regions
of Ghana

Organized groups ofpeople go out to sea purposelyto hunt for turtles from about 80 percent of coastal
communities.It is also estimatedthat about two-thirds of all turtles that come ashoreto nest are
slaughtered. An interview by GWS andthe BBC with aturtle hunter at Senya Brekuinthe Central region
of Ghana indicatedthat many people are involved inthis business. He hadhunted turtles since age 16 and
was 73 years old at present. He kills an average of 8 turtles every nesting season or about one turtle each
month. Asked ifhe was aware ofhaving killedan estimated400 turtles through his operations, he indicated
he was not consciousofthis fact as turtles keep coming to the beachto nest. He was then askedto compare
the populationsofturtles 30 years ago and that ofthe past few years. He admitted a gradual decline inthe
turtle populationsbut attributed it to the beliefthat the turtles have gotten clever and are more cautious
when comingto the beach to nest,After collecting eggs from the nest he usually sells whole mature
leatherbackturtles to market women who pay about $10,000.00 (US$2). Cutting and smoking the turtle
increasesthe retail price to $120,000.00(US$24.)

Source: Adjei, R, G. Boakyeand S. Adu. 2001. Organizationalprofile: GhanaWildlife Society. Murine Turtle
Newsletter 93:ll-12. 2001.




West Afiica. MarineTurtleNewsletter. 116: 23-25. 2007. Although five clans inthe Songor Ramsar site, Ghana,
reverethem as a fetish objects, poachingby outsiders is the major threat.

                                                    28


Communitydevelopmentwas generally unsatisfactory
83.      Community development activities under WLD's management tended to be
implementedwith only modestparticipationof communities andlocal ownership is
weak. Inthe several communities visited by IEGvillage elders stated that even though
Site Management Committees were created, the responsibility for infrastructure built by
the project (primarily sanitationunits) lay with WLD andthat community leaders
cooperated with them on periodic waste disposal and clean-up exercises when asked to
do so. The mainproblem i s that WLD are neither trained nor orientated towards
community development and have a limited understanding o f the trade-offs these
communities have to make to survive inthe Ramsar sites.

84.      The experience o f the Community Investment Support Fund(CISF) clearly shows
the mismatcho fproject expectations for community development andthe WLD's ability
to carry out the task. The project supervisionreports revealthat little attention was given
to the CISF untilthe mid-termreview in late 1996, a year before the project was to end,
andthere were few criteria or procedures to identify financially-viable activities or the
demand for them. Evenso, $400,000 was disbursed to 72 groups representing 1,706
people (including 1,OO 1 women) over the period September 1998-December 1999. As a
result o f the "use it or lose it" approach adopted, and poor selection criteria, there i s little
to show for it. A major factor driving disbursement was that officials thought that CISF
would generate local employment. Most groups questioned by IEG saw the CSIF as a
government hand-out to alleviate their poverty and immediate needs and saw few links
with environmental conservation activities (Box 3).

85.      From IEG's small panel o f interviews there appears to be a high correlation
between the level o f social capital and scheme success. At completion o f the project any
CISF repayments were to be administered by the District InfrastructureFundo fthe
Bank's Village InfrastructureProject.46As far as IEGcould determine no repayments
have been made.

Substantialpublicawareness and educationoutreachhadlow sustainability

86.      Interms ofhelping a key nationalNGOto become established andwell known
the project was quite effective. Itcertainly raisedthe profile andknowledge of
environmental issues throughout Ghana. The Ghana Wildlife Society was very active in
the creationofpublic awarenessandeducation over the period 1994-1998 when their
contract with WLD ended. After GWS's departure from the project educational outreach
activities inthe field by WLD have been limited by staff mobility and their low numbers.

87.      Duringthe projectthe GWS registered2,798 Wildlife Clubs inschools and
communities nationwide, buildingon the 586 they had established since 1987. These
outreach efforts continued until2002 by which time the total number reached more than
7,000. Activities includedpublic events to raise awareness. Inthe more affluent areas,
field trips and camps focused on conservation, tree planting, drama and the like.



46. GhanaVillage Infrastructure Project. 1997-2004.IDA Credit N020. ICR No. 3 1016, 12/29/04. There is no
record ofthis arrangement inthe ICR of this project.

                                                     29




Box 3: Investmentin communitysupporthadmixedresults
Hope and Trust Cooperative Farmers' Association, Keta Lagoon. They receivedCedi 7 million (about
US$l,OOO) from the CISF to rent 3 acres for upland farmingusing irrigation. After receivingsome basic
trainingon accountingand bookkeepingthey plantedtheir first crop ofbeans inthe anticipationthat the
profitsthey would make plus the CISF money would enable them to installand operate a well. Dueto
drought the crop failed.After discussionwithin the association the farming idea was dropped andthe
remainingfunds distributedequally amongthe 12members.While the CISF was supposed to be repaid
after two years (by 1999)only halfhadbeenrepaid by mid-2006.
Obenbu Village, Songor Lagoon. SixteencommunitiesreceivedCISF money and 7 were successfuland
these tendedto be to women for fish smoking; all the loans to men for fanning activities failed due to
drought, unrealexpectationsabout income that would be generated, and lack oftechnicalsupport. The
most successful ventures haverepaid 95 percentofthe loan, the unsuccessfulones havepaidnothing.
Ada Foah Village. Songor Lagoon, UnderWLD's leadershipthe communitycleared 7 km of a creek
connectingthe Volta Riverto the wetlands thus reestablishinga supply of fresh water. This has increased
fish yields inthe lagoonand enhanced cattle farmingalong the creek. While a village group receivedCISF
bothfarming and fish frying ventures were unsuccessful.The amount of CISF was not known.
Unity and Strength Farmers' Association, Whuti Village. The group o f 24 farmers (including 14
women) applied for CISF but was refused. After comingup with aplanto plantmangrove to produce
timber and improve localfisheries, the WLD freely providedmangroveseedlings sufficient to plant 3 acres
in 1999.They receivedextensionadvice from the Ministry ofAgricultureand also havesome profitable
irrigatedland following the initiative of the Deputy ChiefExecutiveofthe District in 1995.Since then they
have planted another 5 acres to mangrove.MOA'Sagriculturalextension support fmished in2001. It has
been agreedthat profitsbe split: two-thirds to the group and one-thirdto the clan that owns the land. The
farmers' biggest problemis gettingmicro-credit   - localmoneylenderscharge   50% interest for 3 months
while the localBank charges 30% per year.

Overall, the CISFinvested40percent infarming, 37percent infood processing (mainly fish) and 7
percent infishing (nets, boat repair). The balance went to a wide range of other activities.

Source: IEG InterviewsJuly 2006.

88.      Sustainability o fthese efforts by GWS, however, has been poor without sufficient
external fundingto keep community/school organizers active. A major trade-off for GWS
i s obtaining sufficient income to maintain its offices, staff and conservation activities
while subsidizing its schools program and activities o f its volunteers. For example,
project funding provides up to two-thirds o f GWS's current income while there i s almost
no steady income from its schools' Wildlife Club activities. As a result, once formed
Wildlife Clubs were expected to be mostly self-sustaining with periodic visits from
GWS. Surveys by GWS o f the wetland Wildlife Clubs in2000, and a follow-up national
survey in2002, foundmost o fthem dormantand those that were active hadfew
members.

89.      IEG's field visits found few active clubs outside externally-funded projects or
even community awareness that they had beenformed a decade earlier. As a result o f the
second survey GWS suspended club formation and concentrated instead on consolidating
existing ones-an ongoing effort involving about 1,000 clubs. Incontrast to the earlier
efforts, full club membershipnow requires a year's commitment that includes completion
o f training and with GWS and fund-raising events. Corporate sponsorship to cover the
costs o f GWS's outreach and educationevents raised about $18,000 in2003 to which
government contributedabout $500.

                                                     30


NATIONAL        RESOURCE      MANAGEMENT         PROJECT
90.       The overall efficacy of this project is ratedmodest. The institutional and
policy framework for implementing ecologically and socio-economically sustainable
developmentwas partially achieved. While substantialprogress was made on policy and
legislation, translating this into sustainablemanagement practices for land, forests and
wildlife has proved to be challenging becauseof overlapping responsibilities, distorted
incentive structures, lack of transparency, poor governanceand the declining importance
of `non-productive' environmental concerns to government.

Objective l(a): Sustainableuse of national land resources was partially achieved
with notable shortcomings. Efficacy is rated modest.

91.       Environmental managementcoordination was partially successful.
Continuing the work of the ERMP, the project assisted consolidation of the EPA through
developmentof ahumanresourcedevelopmentplanthat upgraded staff skills and
experience according to long-term strategic priorities. Environmental information
systems and networks were further strengthenedand extended to 10regions. The reaction
ofthe EPA to its exclusion from the first round of the Ghana PRSP, andthe production of
Ghana's first Strategic Environmental Assessment that mainstreamedenvironmental
considerations into national planning and debate, illustrates the maturity of the
organization and its effectivenesson policy issues (Box 4).

92.       Notwithstanding the strengtheningof EPA, fragmentation of environmental
responsibilities greatly weakens a coherent and comprehensiveapproachto the overall
managementof Ghana's natural resourcesthat includes forestry. The MLFMis primarily
concernedwith the commercial aspects of natural resourcemanagementand has "a lack
of capacity for evidence-basedpolicy.'y47The ineffective Ministry of Environment and
Sciencewas abolished inApril 2006 andthe environment portfolio was transferred to the
new Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development andEnvironment. MLGRDE's
primary environmental concerns andbudget are with issues such as provisionof water
supply, pollution control and other "brown" issues. As a result of these successive
reorganizationsoverall environmental policy coordination is lacking. This lacuna is
exacerbatedby the high dependence on donor support and their propensity to focus on
specific sectors such as forestry insteadof cross-cutting themes. Additionally they tendto
directly interact with the respectiveline agencieswhere the environmental knowledge
and interest reside rather thanapex ministriesthat remain weak on these aspects.48And
within EPA insufficient staffing and budget continuestojeopardize adequatemonitoring
and enforcement of development affecting the environment.

Objective l(b): Sustainableuse of forests was only partially achievedwith notable
shortcomings.Efficacy is rated modest.




47. World Bank. 2007. GhanaCountry Environmental Analysis. Report No. 3695-GH. This comprehensiveand
highly critical report was preparedby the consortiumof donorsthat have beenGhana's long-termpartnerson
environmental and forest sector issues.The partnersare: Agence Frangaisede Dtveloppement,Royal
Netherlands Embassy, Departmentof InternationalDevelopmentandthe World Bank.
48. Observationsby the MLGRDE in ameetingwith IEG on 27 June, 2006.

                                                       31


93.     The ForestServicewas reorganizedbut remainsineffective.Legislation
introduced or amendedto improve the managementand commercial viability of Ghana's
forests is only modestly effective. The 1999 Forestry Commission Act authorized
implementation of forestry policies and resourcemanagementaccording to the 1996
ForestDevelopment Master Plan. Enabling acts and regulations for the Master Plan (that
aimed to clarify accountability for resource exploitation, community consultation and
compensation, and resourcerents introduced by the Timber ResourcesAct of 1997)were
delayeduntil 2002 because of strong opposition from the timber lobby.49Implementation
of the new governance structure has proved to be very difficult.

Box 4: EPA's role in makingthe GhanaPovertyReductionStrategy
EnvironmentallySensitive
Ghana's decision to apply for Heavily IndebtedPoor Country(HIPIC) debt relief inFebruary2001 and its
needto submit this by May 2001left insufficienttime for consultationswith the EPA inthe productionof
the prerequisite GhanaPoverty Reduction StrategyPaper- a major issue giventhat 60 percent ofthe
populationrely on the landandnatural resourcesuse for their livelihoods.Althoughthe National
DevelopmentPlanningCommissionhadincludedsome environmental considerations based on inputs by
the Ministry of Landsand Forests,UNDP andthe World Bank,treatment was cursory and limited to
"Productionand GainfulEmployment"thematic pillar ofthe GPRSP. Following pressurefiom the World
Bank and other donorsthat the PRSPshould includeenvironmental concerns as a cross-cutting issue, the
EPA ledthe productionof a Strategic EnvironmentalAssessment ofthe GPRSP in2004-an international
precedent.
Source: Gadsekpos,A and L.Waldman. 2005. "Ihave heard about it, but have never seen it: Environmental
                                                                                         "
Considerations in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy. Study initiatedunder the Poverty and Environmental
Partnershipjointly fundedandmanagedby CIDA, DFIDandGTZ.


94.      Followingrationalization of sector institutions the Forestry Commission (FC)
became the apex agency underthe Ministryof Lands, Forests and Mines in 1999.Apart
from consolidating functional responsibilities, part of the rationale of this reorganization
was to reduce the cost of the civil service inline with agreedmacroeconomic reforms.
Accordingly, five organizations with about 6,000 staff -the Forestry Commission, the
Forest Department of the Ministry of Lands and Forestry, the Timber Export
Development Board, the Forest Products Inspection Bureauand the Department of Game
and Wildlife -were mergedand downsized under the FC that now has about 3,700 staff.
Under the new FC almost three-quarters of its staff are engagedon forest-related
activities inthe Forest Service Division (that focuses on the high forest only) and the
Timber IndustryDevelopment Division. Some 960 staff work for the new Wildlife
Division. Most redundancywas among unskilledstaff and many technical staff were
moved into middlemanagementpositions. Management of forests insavannahzones has
beentransferred to the new multidisciplinary SavannahResourceManagement Center in
Tamale. Finally, the FC's over-reliance on expatriate consultants(that were provided
freely under bilateral technical assistance) has left it technically weak now that direct
project support has almost ceased. This is exacerbatedby the FC's difficulty inattracting
highly qualified staff on government salaries and a dynamic and growing private sector.




49. The Amendments to the Timber Resourcesmanagement Act (Act 547) of 2002 andthe Timber Resources
ManagementAct Regulationsof 2002.

                                                       32


95.      The downsizing o f FC staff was to be offset by passing muchof the responsibility
for securing reserve forest boundaries, wildlife conservation and access to local
communities. While several NGOs undertake collaborative management in some wildlife
reserves, for forests the response has only been partial and reserves are now generally
less secure and subject to illegal logging and poaching. This i s because o f the lack o f FC
budget allocationfor this work, the cessation o fdonor-supported projects that would have
enabled this to happen, and inadequate funding from District assemblies, Stool Holders
andTraditional Councils due to higher priorities (e.g. municipal development, healthand
water supplies etc.,)." None o f these institutions accounts to forest-using and owning
communities for the royalties they receive and none o f them deploys resources in
development projects that could compensate communities for resource destructi~n.~~

96.      Collection of economic rents failed and revenues suffered. A goal o f sector
reform was to increase transparency and revenues for forest resources. According to the
ICR, the new legislation was successful inraising the timber stumpage rate from
US$2.0/m3 to US$l1.O/ m3,Subsequent reports by the FC indicate that actual rates in
2003 were US$2.9/ m3or less than a third o fthe approved rate and even then only 90
percent o fthis was collected. To redress shortfalls inrevenue the Annual Allowable Cut
(AAC) was increased by MLFto 2 million m3in2002, the additional timber coming
primarily from off-reserve forests and savannah that have an estimatedeconomic life o f
55 years. An additional reason for the increase inthe AAC inoff-reserve areas was to
enable salvage o f timber that might otherwise be destroyed by farmers (para 17). At the
same time, responsibility for off-reserve forests was transferred from District Assemblies
to the FC undermininglocal stewardship. Even with these changes revenue generation
improved only modestly - over the period 2000-2003, for example, the FC was only able
to collect revenues on halfthe nationaltimber harvest becauseo f illegal logging (Box 5).

97.      Good governance remains a problem. Measures to introduce better governance
have proved to be ineffective. The failure o fthe FC to properly regulate the sector
reduced their internal revenues derivedfrom fees and charges. This caused the Ministry
o f Finance to cut their budget because o f the allegations o f corruption and lack o f
financial transparency. Inturn, this reduced FC's ability to provide support for field
logistics and staff and initiated a vicious circle o f mistrustthat continues today and
underminessustainable forest managementss2This pressure from the Ministry o f Finance
has producedsome improvements: the FC and the Office ofthe Administrator o f Stool
Landshave published six-monthly reports o fthe stumpage and rent reports onthe FC
website since 2004. Reports on the amount collected and disbursedare detailed for on-
and off-reserve forests for each region. Butproblems remain.




50. The FC collects of fees and levies from forest regulation and management InJuly-December 2006 the total
collectedwas Cedi 40 billion or about US$5 million. After the FC retains 10percent as an administration charge
the remainder is split 40 percentto the FC and 60 percentto other stakeholders. Among the stakeholdersthe
District Assembly receives55 percent, Stool Holder 25 percentand the Traditional Council 20 percent.
5 1 , Forest Watch Ghana. 2006. Forest Governance in Ghana- an NGO Perspective- Recommendationsfor a
Voluntary PartnershipAgreementwith the EU. March 2006. Financedby DFID and the Dutch Ministry of the
Environment (VROM).
52. IEG meetingwith Ministry of FinanceJune 29, 2006.

                                                       33


98.      FC's responsibilitiescreateconflictsof interest.The FC is the regulator ofthe
forestry sector yet it still engages incommercial activities. While the most obvious i s the
collection o f taxes - much o f which it retains -the FC also owns three timber mills and
directly manages forests andplantations. Privatization and commercialization o f these
plantations was halted after inventories showed them to be o f low value and they
continue to be important sources o f income for the FC. More recently, new plantations
established 2003-2004 by the MLFusingHIPIC funds (see para112) were transferred to
the FC's control rather thanthe private sector. While logging permits require EIAsissued
by the EPA, the FC is a member o f one o fthe EPA technical committees that has never
enforced EIA requirements on logging concessionaire^.^^

Box 5: Illegal loggingremainsa major problem
Official FC records show that in2003 the industry consumed 1.2 millionm3and this declined to 0.9 million
m3in2004. Independentexport data collectedby customs and exciserevealed, however, that exports in
these two years were 1.8 millionand 1.2 millionm3respectively- a 30 percent difference worth about US$
3 million in lost stumpage in2004. The authors state that "the industry presumablydistributes suchretained
revenues informally among itself, FC staff and the financing of its patronage."
Bribes continueto define how business works. Illegal chainsawmilling inthe informal sector is estimated
to have distributed some US$4.5 million in 1999.Illegal felling by the formal sector in2004 evaded US$7
millionoftax, at an estimated stumpage rate ofUS$9 per m3ofroundwood. Inforest fiscal reform
dialogue, in2005, one large-scalelogger-producedindicateda cost of US$8 per m3in"informal social
commitments" inorder to retain traditional authority and local support for harvest operations.This does not
include the bribes paid to the forest institutions and the establishedbureaucracy.It has been estimatedthat
the bribes `to get things done' amountto over US$ 1millionayear.
Source: Bird and others, 2006 (op cit)

99.      Reformof the timber concessionsystem proceedsvery slowly. The Timber
Resources management Act that came into force in 1998 specified that existing
concessions and leases (awarded for 30 to 40 years from the late 1980sor before) were to
be converted to Timber Utilization Contracts (TUCs) within six months. The objective
was to increase transparency and revenue collection against a defined harvesting ceiling
for each contract and make the stumpage collection system redundant. None o f the timber
companies complied withinthe six-month period although by 2000 parliament had
ratified 42 TUCs. Evenso, these were cancelled by the new government on the grounds
on non-transparency in2002.

100.     After amendment o f the enabling l e g i ~ l a t i o nto~provide for competitive bidding
                                                                       ~
and Timber RightsFees payable by the bidwinners, the new governmentproposed that
the cancelled TUCs be returnedto the biddingpool. However, the FC repackaged these
TUC areas and reallocated them to the previous concessionaires in2003-2004 on the
grounds that they replaced concessions lost after some forest areas were declared
protected areas or that their concessions hadbeen so denuded o f timber that they had to
beretiredto allow rejuvenation. These decisions are challenged inthe courts by the first
round TUC awardees and Forest Watch Ghana and remain subjudice. Since 2003, the FC
conducted a further four competitive biddings.But similar to the earlier round, these



53. Bird and others.2006. op cit. page 6. New Timber Utilization Contracts are requiredto have EIAs.
54. RegulationL.I. 1721 ofFebruary 2001.

                                                      34


became miredinlegal challenges -this time brought by the timber lobby over eligibility
of applicants and the transparency of the process -andthis caused the four auctions for
2005 to bepostponed. Another round of biddingwas concluded inearly 2006. The
expectationthat TUCs would be an effective instrumentto reduce illegallogging
activities is prematureand revealsthe tension betweenthe MLFNand the FC (Box 6).

Box 6: TUCs were expected to reduce illegal logging
"The Minister [of MLFM] strongly condemned the unpatriotic individual Ghanaians whose activities
underminethe government's determinationto replenishthe stock of timber, wood fuel and protect water
bodies.The Ministry is particularly concernedthat chainsawoperators who are supportedby some bigtime
financiers and in some cases collude with some forest officials to plunder the forests with impunity. The
Ministry is seriously working out plansto wean young chainsaw operatorsfiom the clutches o ffinanciers
who mostly cheat them. These fmanciers will soon be chased out of business once the competitive bidding
process f m l y gain root and successful biddersof the forest resources started mounting security
surveillanceover their lease concessions."

Source: Ghana's Daily Graphic.Monday, August 23, 2004.

Participatory forest managementis proving difficult
101.      Inequitable distribution of benefitsweakens stewardship of forests. The
fraught progresstowards universal TUCs means a continued reliance on the faulty
stumpage system. Becausethe distribution of forest revenuesby the FC is contrary to the
specified distribution inthe constitution it is widely viewed as unfair by stool holders as
subverting traditional rights. 55 The FC's off-the-top charge accounts for 60 percent of
revenues from reserves and40 percent from off-reserves. This lowers the incentive of
local government and institutions to value forests. Additionally, the FC's right to award
timber harvesting contractsto outside commercial interests without local consultation
undermineslocalstewardshipof forests. While the project helpedto definethe longer
term forest management objectives and implementation plans inpilot subprojects for 12
reserves inline with the National Forest Plan, consultation with communities was only
partially completed by project closing when funding dried-up.Follow-up andtechnical
support now depends primarily onNGOs andvery small amounts of bilateral funding.

102.      Attemptsto enable communities to legally harvest non-commercial timber
through Timber UtilizationPermits (TUPs) since 1998 have beengenerally ineffective.
The rules governing the TUPs were to enable community representativesto participate in
forest inventory before contracts are awardedand have the right of determination over
who can fell trees on their farms. This i s backedup by Social Responsibility Agreements
underwhichtimber companiespay 5 percentof stumpage to support local social
developmentprojects. Inventories are incomplete. Many TUPs were awardedto
commercial loggers and commercial interests encouragedby lax local regulation and lack




55. Article 267 (6) of Ghana's Constitutionstatesthat revenues accruing from stool lands shouldbe split four
ways: 10% to the administrator of stool lands; 25%to the stool for stool maintenance; 25% to the traditional
authorityand 55% to the District Assembly within which the stool lies. Currentlythe FC appropriates 60% of
revenue for forest reservesand 40% or revenuesderived from "off-reserves."

                                                     35


o ftaxes for timber so deri~ed.'~Stumpage fees are generally less thanthe timber actually
felled andraise local resentment. Farmers are still not recognizedas owners o f landand
trees (para 12) and"the Forest Service Division i s not complying with farmers' demands
to provide certification o f ownership o f timber they are planting."57

103.     Eventhough the project encouraged village-level Community Forest
Commissions to mobilize support for forest policy goals and to represent community
interests, this remains generally ineffective because o f the perceived injustice associated
with the capture o fmajor benefits by outside commercial interests with negligible local
compensation. And increased conflict between commercial and local interests encourages
a "race to the bottom" for scarce forest resources -thus further undermining
sustainability (Box 7). This i s inmarkedcontrast to community participation successfully
fostered under the savanna resources management component (para 113).

Box 7: Continuedalienation of forest assets and rightsfrom local communities
underminesgood forest governanceandthreatens resourceconservation
Forest communities are confronting timber companiesin an organizedmanner and demandingrent
illegally. For examplemany Community Forest Committeesaroundthe Desiri Reserve inthe Nkawie
ForestDistrict have set up illegalroad-blocks and forcibly demanded"tolls" from passingtimber trucks.
Communities are also tacitly supportingraids on company concessions by chainsawoperators-who at
least pay rent up front. Most significantly, however, both gangs of illegal loggersand forest-dependent
communities are now willing to confront the state over resources inan increasingly violent manner.There
havebeenrepeatedreportsby District ForestManagersthat gangs of illegal chain saw operators are
preparedto resist state interferencewith their operations. In2004 four timber companiesinthe Twifo
Hemand-Lower Denkyira District of the Central Region appealed for FC and police support to halt illegal
chainsaw operators. In2005 the national mediareported athree-day shoot-out betweenthe Enchi
community inthe WesternRegionand FC officials backedup by police.
Source: Forest Watch Ghana.2006. ForestGovernance in Ghana-An NGOPerspective, page 17 and Sarfo-Mensah
(2005 op cit) page 13.

104.      To control illegal logging the project argued for a policy to regulate local level
chainsaw operations through a series o f permits issuedby the District Assemblies and to
reserve 20 percent o f milledtimber for local markets. Bothmeasures failed. Permits for
Chainsaw operators were ineffective because the lack o f local cash resources created
conflicts o f interests for District Councils. And the allocation o f milledtimber failed
because local willingness to pay was below alternative market prices open to millers - in
Kumasi, for example, it was estimated that only 10percent o f timber sold locally came
from the 88 local milling companies, the balance from illegal supplier^.^'

Highforest managementremainsunsustainable

105.      Despite reorganizationand institutional strengthening and new or modified
legislationunder the project, Ghana's high forest reserves continue to deteriorate andthe
government does not maximize its income from timber and forest products. The Ghana



56. TUPSwere establishedunder the Timber Resources ManagementRegulationsof 1998. Sincethen the FC has
awarded 125TUPs to commercial loggingcompanies.World Bank (2007) states (page 44) that aquarter of logs
harvestedby large loggingcompanies came from TUPs.
57. Boni, S. 2006. Op cit. page 8.
58. Sarfo-Mensah, P. 2005. op cit. page 9.

                                                      36


wood industry and log banexport study estimated that in 1999 o f the 3.7 million m3of
timber harvested, 70 percent o f it was not officially sanctioned: 46 percent was done by
illegal chainsaw activities and 24 percent by illegal industrial 10gging.~'

106.      Comprehensive and up-to-date forest resource inventories remain incomplete. The
exact volume o f timber available for sustainable harvestingremains uncertain. It was
plannedthat the 2001-02 inventories by the FC would update the baseline established
1987-92. However, delayed support underthe project and reduced budgets ledto a
contracted effort that did not complete the job given its increased complexity because of
the increasednumbero fcommercial species.60Inall, inventoriesofonly 86 o fthe 266
designated forest reserves were complete; the results are not yet reported.

107.      Growing demand for timber and timber products continues to exceed sustainable
supplies.As earlier, this is driven by continued over-capacity o f forest mills, their low
conversion efficiency and the need to meet domestic demand, coupled with non-
compliance with laws and regulations. In 1995 the annual allowable cut (AAC) o f timber
was reduced from 1.2 million cubic meters to 1.O million cubic meters, half from on-
reserve forests and the balance from off-reserve forests.61While on-reserve is managed
by the Forestry Commission, the off-reserve remains (theoretically) under thejurisdiction
of Stool Holders. One estimate o factual annual wood harvest based upon consumption in
2000 was calculated between three to four times the AAC or about 4.1 million m3(Table
6). This i s similar to earlier estimates (para 105).

Table 6: Ghana: Fellingof industrialroundwoodbased uponconsumptionand sales
           Market                 Volume of woodproducts
                                             (4                 Conversion      Estimated volumefelled
                                                                   rate                   (4
Extra-regional exports                     433,000                 35%                  1,237,000
RegionalExports                            300,000                 35%                  857,000
Domestic market                            600,000                 30%                 2,000,000
               Total Volume                1,333.000               3 1%                4,094,000

Source: Ministryof Landsand Forestandthe EU.2000. Mid-TermReview of the Woodworking Sector Development
Program.

108.      While estimates o f annual domestic demand vary, most lie between 0.3 and 0.6
millionm3. Regional and extra-regional exports data are fairly reliable. Similarly the
most efficient sawmills have a conversionrate o f 70 percent whilst illegal chain-saw
derivedtimber is estimated to be 20 percent giving an overall weighted average o f 36




59. Bird, N.T,. Fomete and G. Birikorang.2006. Ghana's .ExperienceIn Timber Verification SystemDesign.
VERIFOR Case Study 1.May 2006.
60. In 1987only 14 species were inventoried,mainly highvalue exportabletimber (e.g. mahogany, teak). The
over-fellingof these species ledto an expansionof the number of commercialspecies to 82 by year 2000. The
inventoryperiodwas reducedfrom 18 to 12months andwas done without fully trainedstaff.
61. Exploitationoftimber from Ghana's forest is basedon the Annual Allowable Cut (AAC) which is currently
fixed at one millioncubic meters per year. The AAC is basedon forest inventories conducted between 1985 and
1995which establishedthe total standingvolume oftimber inGhana's forest, and hence the sustainable
harvestinglimit.

                                                  37


percent.62Notwithstanding these uncertainties, evenat 50 percent efficiency the volume
o f roundwood felled would be more thantwice the AAC. Inaddition, Ghana has a high
and growing demand for fuelwood - estimates have increased from 230 million m3in
1995 to 320 million m3in2001- and much o f this i s obtained illegally.

109.     Independent verification o f national deforestation indicated that the most recent
rates are 65,000 ha a year and only 16 o f the 266 designated forest reserves are in
sustainable p r o d ~ c t i o n .Remote-sensing data using satellite imagery support these
                                 ~ ~
reports as a small sample shows (Table 7). While more recent remote sensing imagery is
available, lack o f budget and local demand has precludedERGIS from updating these
data (see para 72).

Table 7: RapidlyDwindlingForestArea (km2)
Forest ReservdArea                   Forest area  Forest Area     Forest Area     Reduction
                                      1932-34         1990           2000         1990-2000
Skwesen001, Sekyere District                            56            42             25%
Tain I1                                  509           451            108            76%
PamuBerekram                             189            91             1             99%
Source: World Bank (Ghana)and ERGIS.2006. Personalcommunication

ForestCertificationwas introduced
110.     Forest certification protocols, initiated in 1996, were field tested in2000
supported by DFIDtechnical assistance from the UK'sNatural Resources Institute. The
objective was to fully track timber from source to sales, eliminate illegal timber or timber
products from enteringthe export system, and address concerns about sustainable
harvesting practices. A secondary benefit would be increased revenues as all timber from
concessions would be tracked.

111. Thedraft field standard andchecklistfor forest certification was complex as it
contained over a hundred indicators o f good forest practices that are generally in-line
with the Bank's own recommendation^.^^' 65 Some of its complexity is caused by the need
to make it compatible with the guidelines o f the intergovernmental International Tropical
Timber Organization and other internationalandregional initiatives such as the African
Timber Organization. And it i s this complexity that has slowed development o f a
practical and economically viable system.

Privatesector plantationdevelopmentwas unsuccessful

112.     Plantations were intendedto relieve the pressure on natural forests. FA0 reports
that plantations currently provide 20 percent o f exports and predict that this will rise to 50



62. Birikorang,G. 2001. Ghana WoodIndustry and Log Export Ban Study. Forest Sector DevelopmentProject.
Forestry Commission, Accra, Ghana.
63. World Bank.2007. Ghana CountryEnvironmentalAnalysis.
64. Ghana Gazette 2000b. Certificationworkshop. Newsletter about Ghana's timber industry, No. 19,
August/September2000, p.1
65. WWF and World Bank. 2006. ForestCertificationAssessment Guide (FCAG). July 2006.

                                                        38


percent by 2020 as natural resources are denuded. At initiation o f the plantation
component in 1999there was considerable expression o f local interest that, if sustained,
may have ledto about 3,000 ha o f plantations. It was quickly realized, however, that the
proposed approach by the FC favored a top-down approach that targeted the better-off
farmers and commercial interests to the detriment of the poorer and marginal farmers: the
minimumqualifying plot size was five haandthere was no consideration of social
forestry or integrating plantations with agriculture.66As a result, the Bank's two
cofinancing partners (EU and AfDB) withdrew their support and this subcomponent was
informally suspended.67

Savannah resources managementwas successfully initiated

113.     The Savannah Resource Management Center was established andfully staffed,
albeit with a three-year delay due to procurement problems. At the time o f IEG's visit to
Tamale, staff demonstrated a thorough understandingof their mission, were multi-
disciplinary andthere was ampleproofthat they were functioning as a cross-sectoral
natural resources management center. Most importantly there is substantial community
involvement insmall-scale subproject areas that piloted natural resource management
planningand activities. Achievements underthe assessedproject have been substantially
expanded under the follow-up Northern Savanna Biodiversity ConservationProject that
started in2003.68

Objective 1(c): Sustainable use of wildlife was not achieved. Efficacy is rated
negligible.

114.     Wildlife management- dedicated staff but few resources. There is institutional
tension about the role of the Wildlife Departmentthat weakens its ability to perform even
though staff are highly motivated and skilled. This was not helpedby the long delay in
project support for this component that only started in2002. Central budget constraints
have been temporarily relieved by donor-funding but this is likely to decline as budget
support replaces project f~nding.~'remains understaffed despite its increased
                                             It
responsibilities- as noted earlier inthe Ramsar sites (para 81).70 As a result, WLD staff
feel marginalized inthe new organizational set-up. Many senior FC officials see it as


66. Integratedfarming and plantations are successful in Sefwi Wiawso District (Boni, 2006, op cit., page 5.)
67. Despite this set-back, a national ForestPlantation Programmewas created by the President in 2002 to plant
20,000 ha per year. There is strong evidencethat plantations could be financially successfulas well as mitigating
loss of natural forest resources and unemployment.Subsequently,the MLFN receivedUS$ 18.35 million from
the Heavily IndebtedPoorCountries(HIPC) debt reliefprogram over the period 2003-2005 to fundplantation
developmentunder the public sector. In2006 the plantations createdwere handedover to FC management.
68. The original 23 community-basedsubprojects createdunderNRMP have now expandedto 86: 36 for forestry
management, 27 to game park management and 20 covering 170 communities in the wildlife east-west corridors
traversing the northern savanna. The fate of 9 original projects is unknown as they were not continued under the
follow-on project.
69. While salaries of WLD staff are being paid, there are few funds for fieldwork. At Mole National Wildlife
Park FC budget for operationalactivities stoppedin2003 and bridging finance was provided by Dutch aid until
November 2005. Subsequentlythe NSBCP provide basic overheads and fuel for operationalvehicles. While
considerableincome is generatedby park fees and the game lodge this is sent to the centraltreasury in Accra.
70. For example, Mole National Wildlife Park had 200 staff -4 professionalsand 196 field staff, Under plans it
was agreedthat a minimum staffing of 96 was neededto maintain the park and control poaching. Current staff
are about 100, of whom about 40 are ineffective due to chronic illness or unsuitability.

                                                    39


irrelevant to their mission and a drain on scarce financial resources eventhough park fees
andpaying visitors have greatly increased. Senior MLFNofficial stated it should be
financially self-sufficient; this tension remains unresolved.

115.     Inmany areasthere are tensions with the localcommunities too -particularly
where newly establishedprotected areas informer forests leadto exclusion of
communities that relied heavily on non-timber forest products (NTFPs.) Evenwith these
drawbacks, the formal wildlife reserves are generally well managed, inmany cases
assistedby NGOs or from small bi-lateral grants for specific community-based
conservationactivities (Box 5). Project support for communities near reserve boundaries
focused on awareness-raising,education and development of small-scale enterprises.
Most ofthose visited by IEGwere involved inrearing giant snails, giant bush-rats (called
grasscutters) for local consumption, apiary, herbs and fruit plantations to mitigate loss of
NTFPs. Failure rates were relatively highbecause those that neededthe work had
inadequateresourcesto bridge the gestationperiod to sustainableproduction; while other
entrepreneurs(mainly middle-class spouses or retired officials) generally lackedthe
experienceto nurturethese hands-onagribusinesses. Most importantly, most of those
engagedwere not the experiencedbushmeat hunters or chainsaw operators who could
make far more money following their old occupations. Thus the project made atoken
effort at employment generationbut had little effect on poaching.

Objective 2: Effortsto promote biodiversity conservationachievedvery little.
Efficacy is rated negligible.

116.     Biodiversity conservation remains an uphill task. Deforestation and loss of
habitat caused by agricultural extensification, is the biggest threat to wildlife and
biodiversity. The perverse incentives createdby the supremacy of centralized top-down
resourceallocation, and the customary requirementthat landhas to be continually usedto
gain individual rights of tenure, were not addressed by the project. Instead, this GEF-
supported component focused on establishing 30 globally significant biodiversity areas
(GSBAs) withinthe highforest zone andbuilding local support andcapacity for
community resourcemanagementareas (CREMAS.)~~                    At the time ofIEG's visit only one
CREMA hadbeencreated. Within the GSBAs there is considerable progress on
cataloguing resourcesbecause of the interest of localNGOs many of whom are supported
by external funding. However, biodiversity conservation is not always supportedby local
communities (Box 8).

117.     The third biggest threat to biodiversity continues to grow: the bushmeat trade.
This i s estimatedto be worth US$200toUS$300 million a year, and from studies inone
protected area, to be worth about US$4,700 a square km.Researchreveals that hunters
can generate incomes similar to a wildlife officer.72Highurbandemand enables them to
capture about 70 percent of the retail chopbar price that average about US$3 per kg.




71. Wildlife Divisions, ForestryCommission. Policyfor Collaborative Community-Based Wildlife Management,
September 2000; andA Briefing Document On Collaborative Resources Management In Ghana, January 2004.
72. Cowlishaw, G., S. Mendelsonand J. M.Rowcliffe. 2005.Structure and Operation of Bushmeat Commodity
Chain in Southewestern Ghana. Conservation Biology. V 19, No 1, February2005.

                                                      40


Licensing o f chop bar^^^ to regulate the trade have proved to be unsuccessful: the large
number o f actors inthe trade make regulation and control very expensive. The annual
four-month closed season i s limitedto a few species and enforcement i s lax.74The only
way to regulate demandmay be to increase hunters' costs by penalties. Yet the ways to
achieve this remain elusive, not least because o f differing views about conserving
Ghana's wildlife and the unwillingnesso f government to invest innon-commercial
activities.

Box 8: Balancing biodiversity conservationand rural livelihoodsis difficult
Farming, the major means of livelihood inforest-fringe communities, is viewed by the young men as not
lucrative. Illegal chainsawoperationsare consideredamuch quicker way of getting richand collaboration
within communities is common due to a lack of alternativelivelihoods. Inarecent study at Sagyimase, a
community which fringes the GBSA known as the Atewa Range, some localpeoplebelieve that chainsaw
operationsinthe area sustainthe localeconomy. Ironically, recently improved protectiondue to the
formation of Community Biodiversity Advisory Groups inthe Range's fringe communities adversely
affects business innon-forest productsand other socio-economic activities, hrther encouragingillegal
poachingof forest resources. Toleranceof illegal activities has its negativeside too. A common practice is
that chainsawoperators also hunt for game by settingfire to fallow land and thickets thus devastatinglocal
vegetation, crops and wildlife. And becausethese operators are usually armed, local people can do very
little to stop them, especially inthe small and remote communities where they are common.
Source: Sarfo-Mensah. 2005. op cit. pages 12-15.

118.       Overallsummary of findings on efficacy. Table 8 summarizes this assessments
rating o f efficacy for each project's objectives and overall.

Table 8: Efficacy- Summary ratings for each project

                                   Project                                         Rating of Efficacy

  Environmental Resources Manapement Proiect
        1   (a) Improve the capacity ofthe borrower to manage                         Substantial
            environmentalresources
        1   (b) Improve the capacity ofthe population to manage its                     Modest
            environmentalresources
        2   GEF: Improve the management of Ghana's coastalwetlands                      Modest
                                         ERMP OverallOutcome rating                     Modest

  Natural Resources Manapement Proiect
        1   (a) Promotesustainableuse of national land                                  Modest
        1   (b) Promotesustainable use of forests                                       Modest
        1   (c) Promotesustainable use of wildlife                                     Negligible
        2   Better conserve the richbiodiversity of Ghana's forests                    Negligible
                                        NRMPOverallOutcome rating                       Modest




73. Chopbars are small retailersof bushmeat - a place where the meat is choppedup.
74. ConservationInternationalGhana. 2002. Assessment of Bushmeat trade During the Annual Closed Seasonon
HuntinginGhana. (in collaborationwith FA0 RegionalOffice for Africa.) February,2002.

                                             41


Efficiency

ENVIRONMENTAL       RESOURCES    MANAGEMENT       PROJECT
119.    No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate potential economic benefits or
efficiency, aposition sustained inthe ICR. This was because neither the development of
environmental information systems, nor pilot projects for landandwater management,
nor coastal wetlands interventions, could be regardedas economically quantifiable.

120.    Inthe absence offormal measuresofefficiency, andthe institutional and
capacity-building nature of the project, efficiency isjudged on institutional outcomes
related to inputs.The efforts to strengthenthe EPA sufferedfrom delays ininputsthat
slowed its reorganization and ability to improve environmental regulation. Coordination
and establishment of environmental information systems by concernedorganizations was
efficiently carried out inAccra but faltered indissemination to Districts apart from those
linkedto academic organizations. The Land and Water component sufferedfrom delays,
did not eliminate organizational duplication, and only achievedtwo-thirds of its target,
and that poorly although it ranslightly over-budget. Overallefficiencyof these three
componentsis ratedas modest.

GEFCOASTALWETLANDS            MANAGEMENT      COMPONENT
121.    Legislation was efficiently conductedto establishthe Ramsar sites but, as with
other aspects of the project, substantialdelays and procurement problems delayed and
undercut effectivenesseventhough most of the budget was spent. The efficiency of the
important community development investment fund (para 83-85) is rated as negligible -
butthis has aminor effect onthe overall ratingfor this componentas it represents less
thanatenthofthe costs. Overallefficiencyofthe GEF component and grant is rated
modest.

NATURALRESOURCES         MANAGEMENT      PROJECT
122.    The economic rate ofreturn(ERR) was estimatedat appraisal for some of the
components: savannahat 13 percent and wildlife management between 19 and 31percent
dependingon the relative growth of tourism and decline inbushmeattrade. No estimates
were given for biodiversity. Progressunder the savannahcomponent was far less than
anticipated and, again, reliable data are absent. While tourist revenues from protected
areas have increased, the evidence is anecdotal andnot systematically collated. No
progress was made on reducing the bushmeattrade. Inview of these lacuna an ex-post
ERRcannot be calculated for these components. Efficiencyofthese is ratedmodestfor
the landobjectiveandnegligiblefor wildlife and biodiversityinterms of resultsfor
the money invested.

123.    The efficiency of the high forest componentwas to bemeasuredby the increasein
royalties (stumpage), elimination of the export ban and the income generatedby an
export tax -a net present value of US$28 to US$78 million was projected. At the end of
the project few, ifany, ofthe predicted timber reforms were inplaceand data are lacking.
While the allocation of FC's stumpage fees is published, there i s no matching information
showing the rate of collection or the volume of timber actually logged. About halfthe
arrears of stumpage fees remain uncollected. Limitedprogress on TUCs ledto bids of

                                                   42


only US $6 million in2006. Since 2004 there has been no export duty on lumber,veneer,
and plywood and the export banremains ineffect. Onthe other hand, the timber industry
pays zero import duties, receives rebates for operating inrural areas, and many
companies involved insale o f processed wood products have set up inTax Free Zones
originally created as an incentive for new manufactures. Revenue losses to these timber
companies are estimated at US$ 4 million a year." The ICR states (but does not support
it with data) that the incrementalbenefitswere US$13.2 millionover the five-year period
1999-2003or US$2.6 million a year. This is a tenth o fthe lowest expected value.
Therefore, the efficiency o f the high forest component i s rated negligible. In view of the
dominanceof the high forest and related policy reformsinterms of project costs (65
percent of total costs), the catalogue of delayed implementation, inefficient
procurement, and poor quality contracting, overall efficiency of the NRMP is rated
as negligible.

124.     Summary of ratingon efficiency. Table 9 summarizes the ratings and weights
used to rate efficiency inachieving project objectives.

Table 9: Efficiency Summary ratings for each project
                        -
                              Project                     Weight             Efficiency
                                                                               Rating

 Environmental Resources Management Proiect
      l(a). Improve the capacity of the borrower to         0.4                Modest
      manageenvironmentalresources
      l(b). Improve the capacityof the population to        0.4                Modest
      manage its environmental resources
      2.    GEF: Improve the management of Ghana's          0.2                Modest
      coastal wetlands
                      ERMP Overall Outcome rating           1.0               Modest

 Natural ResourcesManagement Proiect
      l(a). Promotesustainable use of national land         0.2                Modest
      l(b). Promotesustainable use of forests               0.6               Negligible
      l(c). Promotesustainable use of wildlife              0.1               Negligible
      2.    Better conserve the richbiodiversity of         0.1               Negligible
      Ghana's forests
                      NRMP Overall Outcome rating           1.0              Negligible



Outcomes

125.     Outcome ratings are based on the foregoing discussion that evaluated relevance of
the projects' objectives and design, the efficacy and efficiency o fefforts to achieve them.
Table 10 summarizes the conclusions. The unsatisfactory outcome o f the NRMP i s the




75. Birikorang, G and M.Rhein.2005. Ghana WoodIndustryandLog Ban Export Study.Forest Sector
DevelopmentProject (DFID).

                                                     43


result o f the greater weight that was givento sustainable forest management -this i s a
precondition for achievement o f most wildlife andbiodiversity conservation objectives.

Table 10: ProjectOutcomes Ratedon Achievementof ProjectObjectives
            Objectives                            Overall     Efficacy   Efficiency   OUTCOME
                                                 Relevance*
 Environmental Resources Management Project
     1    (a) Improvethe capacity of the
          borrower to manage environmental       Substantial Substantial  Modest      Moderately
          resources                                                                   Satisfactory
     1    (b) Improvethe capacity of the
          populationto manage its                Substantial  Modest      Modest      Moderately
          environmental resources                                                     Unsatisfactory
    GEF Wetlands Manaaement
     2     Improvethe managementof               Substantial  Modest      Modest      Moderately
           Ghana's coastal wetlands                                                  Unsatisfactory
 ERMP Overall Outcome rating                     Substantial  Modest      Modest      Moderately
                                                                                     Unsatisfactory
 Natural Resources Manaaement Project
     1     (a) Promote sustainable use of         Modest      Modest      Modest      Unsatisfactory
          national land
     1     (b) Promotesustainable use of            High      Modest      Negligible  Unsatisfactory
          forests
     1     (c) Promotesustainable use of         Substantial  Negligible Negligible     Highly
          wildlife                                                                    Unsatisfactory
     2     Better conserve the rich biodiversity Substantial  Negligible  Negligible    Highly
           of Ghana's forests                                                         Unsatisfactory
 NRMPOverall Outcome rating                      Substantial  Modest     Negligible  Unsatisfactory
*Relevance given inthis columnis the weighted ratingfor eachobjective and designofthe projectto
achieve it (Table4).



Risksto DevelopmentOutcomes

126.     Bothprojects and the GEF wetlands grant component have significant and
common risks to their development outcomes.

Land managementcarries a highrisk of not beingsustainable

127.     The bulk o fthe rural populationremains dependent on agriculture and natural
resources for their livelihoods and most,lack secure ownership or tenure over landor
associated natural resources. At the same time efforts to improve the productivity o f
farmers inboth forest and savanna areas are targeted at the larger tenured and politically
connected landowners leaving the majority that comprise the smaller farmers and tenants
insubsistence. The productivity gains from increased landsecurity are estimated to cover

                                                   44


13 to 19 percent o f the national poverty gap.76Conversely, farmers with insecure land
tenure have little choice butto extend their area o f cultivation, mine soil fertility and
illegally utilize forests for resources and farming. They have very few incentives or
access to other means or credit to invest.This conflict over landrights and utilization was
not addressed by the project and remains a highrisk to development outcomes.

Sustainablemanagement of environmental resources is at substantial risk

128.     Mucho f the rural population is aggrieved at what they perceive as inequitable
allocation o f forest and mineral resources to commercial and other interests that have
been able to secure centrally-awarded long-term leases that bypass local communities and
farmers and wildlife resources. This sets local communities and farmers inconflict with
government and commercial agencies and bothtend to engage inresources grab that
results ina "race to the bottom."

129.     Natural forests are beingrapidly depleted at rates far inexcess o f natural
regeneration. New institutions to address this remain partial and the reforms for the
transparent award o f TUCs remain hotly contested by commercial interests. The inability
o f the government agencies to effectively regulate forest resource extraction and secure
economic rents has ledto reduced operational budgets. And this vicious cycle further
jeopardizes their field presence andeffectiveness instopping illegal timber felling and
chainsaw operations.

130,     Mineral extraction and new roads are a growing threat to forests and landscape^.^^
The principle risk arises from gold miningwithinforest reserve areas by commercial
companies and illegal artisan gold miners.78Gold miningremains attractive to
government as royalties and corporate taxes yield almost US$90million a year and it
provides greatly needed work inrural areas. In2003 the government announced it would
open forest reserves to gold mining.Currently five gold-mining concessions within
protected forest reserves are being con~idered.'~ addition there are substantial reserves
                                                          In
o f bauxite within forest reserves and government i s discussing long-term concessions
with overseas corporations to extract them. The dilemma of how to derive economic
benefits from rich natural resources with destroying the environment i s not yet resolved.
Risks to the natural environment from mineral extraction are locally high.

131.     As a result of landclearance, unsustainable forestry practices, andthe poor
regulatory regime, wildlife andbiodiversity are under growing threat primarily due to
loss o f habitat and poaching. Risks to wildlife and biodiversity are substantial.



76. Goldstein, Mand C. Udry.2005. The profits of Power: LandRights and Agricultural Investment in Ghana.
Yale University WorkingPaper.November 2005. Fertilizeruse in Ghanais about 6 kgiha, one ofthe lowest in
Africa.
77. Under the medium-termroad infrastructureprogramGhanaplansto construct about 2,000 km of roads.
78. The number of commercial gold mining operations is relativelysmall (11major companiesaccount for 83
percentofthe goldoutput) there may be as many as 300,000 illegal artisanaland small-scalegold mining
ventures. Source: Hilson,g. and F.Nyame. 2006. Gold Mining in Ghana's Forest Reserves: a report on the
current debate. AREA. 38.2, 175-185.
79. Kubi ConcessionAshanti Region; NtronangConcessionEasternRegion;andthe Subi, Mamponand Chirano
Concessions inthe WesternRegion.

                                             45


Ghana's capacity to manage environmental resources carries a substantial riskfor
development outcome

132.    Notwithstandingthe substantial gains on environmental policy under the projects
the capacity to implementit is weakened by low levels of government ownership. This
has beena long term phenomenaillustrated by the government's willingness to allow
donor grant aid to substitutefor its own resources. Recent reorganization of
environmental agenciesand management and its downgrading as a "non-productive"
sector indicates government's waning interestinthe environment despite high level
rhetoric (e.g. Boxes 5 and 6). The ability for day-to-day managementi s further weakened
by reducing agency budgets, inability to retain or attract qualified professional staff, poor
regulation andcorruption. The phasing-out of project support infavor of budget support,
andthe loss of substantialexternal technical support, has left technical weaknesses that
are unresolved.

Bank Performance

133.    ERMP. Quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. Appraisal covered the
important issues affecting environmental resourcesmanagementinGhana but its
preference for technological support and capacity-building overlooked the weaknesses in
environmental policy. Inparticular, it did not pay sufficient attention to buildingfinancial
support systems for project activities within the government-the preference being to do
this through the consortium of donors. This slowed developmentof localcapacity and
maintained the over-reliance on external support.

134.    Supervision was not particularly balancedor proactive when the project activities
departedfrom the timetable. Thus the difficulties of coordinating donor financing was not
addressed and eachpartner was allowed to proceedindependently while at the same time
the supervision was ineffective inbolstering government ownership. Evenwhen it was
apparent that many of the originaltargets would not be met, there was no attempt to
restructurethe program. The files indicate that this was party due to weak managerial
oversight. Initially this was because supervision was managedfrom headquarters,but
even when the Accra office took responsibility, there was little change. In summary,
while Bank performance at appraisal was moderately satisfactory, supervision was
unsatisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

135.    GEF. Quality at entrywas moderately unsatisfactory. Appraisal ofthis separate
grant component made too many assumptionsabout the viability of user participation
despitethe recognized difficulties of landtenure arrangementsand traditional
managementpractices. It failed to notice that government's proposals were at odds with
traditional practice. Supervision was generally quite good, but as with other aspects of
ERMP, it paid insufficient attentionto neededhigher level inputsto secureproject funds
and maintain the project timetable. The very poor performance of the community
investmentsupport fund was causedby the Bank's rushedapproachto identifying sub-
projects to ensure quick disbursementthat wasted most of the funds. While the pollution
managementplant was successfully constructedon the Sakumo Lagoon, this has to be
attributed to the World Bank's UrbanI1Project. Supervision is rated unsatisfactory.
OverallBank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

                                                 46


136.    NRMP. Quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory. Project appraisal was
weak inthat staff overly focused on the APL and paidinsufficient attention to the first
phase-the NRMP. While the APL was appropriate given the institutional risks, the first
phase was far too complex and short giventhe challenges, and poor Bank management
handicapped its effectiveness. Expectations were unrealistic and overly ambitious as they
took little account o f the earlier difficulties with capacity building, donor coordination
and government's lackluster support for environmental programs. As inERMP,
insufficient attention was given to the inequitable distributiono f resources and the
constraining effects o f faulty landtenure policies that weakened communities'
participation inthe wildlife and biodiversity activities. As a result, the project suffered
considerable delays and hadto be extended. Even so, the Bank's focus on critical
environmentalpolicy reform particularly for the forestry sector, was correct.

137.     Supervision i s ratedunsatisfactory. Supervision was stretched between ensuring
adequate attentionto national policy issues on the one handand detailed implementation
inthe field onthe other becauseo fthe largescope andnumber o factivities. Approving
the substantial project extension when triggers were not met passedthe wrong signal to
government causing the project to lose its momentum.Inretrospect, the Bank should
have halted disbursement or restructured the project. This became particularly important
once the co-financiers' support weakened and they departed from the project. As a result,
while many o fthe important policy issueswere eventually passed into legislation, their
enforcement i s fraught with difficulty and remains contentious. OverallBank
performanceis rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance

138.     ERMP.Government ownershipwas weak throughout the project as evidenced by
the totally inadequate counterpart funding andtheir over-reliance on donors' willingness
to support project activities. While the implementingagencies made progress, for
example, strengthening o f the EPA after much delay, much o f this was directedtowards
central institutions to the detriment o f essential initiatives at the district level that would
have supported better environmental management and peoples' participation inthe field.
Borrower's performance is thus rated as unsatisfactory.

139.     GEF. Government ownershipandperformance was unsatisfactory. The appraisal
team misreadthe environmental stakeholders' support for coastal wetlands management
as strong government endorsement o f the project. Inretrospect the endorsement was for
the grant, not for the global commons the wetlands represented. The evidence i s the
chronic funding shortage that reflects low government commitment, weak support for
timely project execution andpost-project experience. Implementing agency performance
was moderately satisfactory. The coordination between the central environmental
agencies and the WLD's implementation unit that resulted inprocurementproblems and
ledto extensive delays was unsatisfactory. Incontrast, and within the constraints imposed
upon it, the WLD performed satisfactorily. The GWS was an effective partner inraising
awareness and facilitating local participationbutthis waned afier donor funding ceased.
Subsequently GWS only supports those activities that fit its agenda. Overall, despite the
good performance o f the implementing agencies, the lack o f central government support

                                                       47


severely weakens project sustainability. Overall Borrower performance is rated
unsatisfactory.

140.      NRMP. Governmentperformance was unsatisfactory. This project sufferedfrom
the same problems as the earlier projects. Donor-driven support for the concept overrode
recognition of weak government commitment to project objectives. Government support
during implementation was weak and uneven and inadequatecounterpart funding ledto
extensive delays. Overall coordination was poor, particularly of the donor inputs.
Government still does not have a coherent environmental policy and the meansto provide
effective environmental regulation. Implementing agencies' staff were generally highly
motivated and their performance is rated moderately satisfactory despite mixed signals
from the MLFNand inadequatenumbersthat reducedtheir effectiveness.Poor
governance frustrated achievement of forest-sector reforms. On the whole, government's
approachwas centrist and top-down inresource allocation that marginalized rural people,
thus increasingthe risksto soundenvironmental management. Overallborrower
performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

5. LookingForward and Lessons

141.       Environmental management inGhana is at a cross roads. While the assessed
projects helpedGhanato modestly build capacity to manage its natural resourcesand
brought about reform and rationalization of sector institutions, government's demandfor
greater profits from the sector - particularly from forest and treecropresources                - has
caused it to focus on short term gains to the detriment of longterm sustainable
management.Forest and wildlife managementare now hostageto an acrimonious debate
betweenthe Ministry of Financeandthe Forestry Commission aboutthe inadequate
revenues generatedand alleged corruption that has caused Financeto freeze budgetary
allocations to the Commission. This situation has beenexacerbatedby the 2004 reduction
of royalties and fees by the Minister of Lands, Forest and Mines to placatethe strong
forest extraction industry." Radical restructuring and downsizing of the Commission's
forest management staff (inresponse to financial pressures) has undercut sound
regulation and reduced funding for its Wildlife Division that is responsible for park and
wildlife management. Poachingoftimber and for bushmeatremainshighwith
consequent adverse impacts on wildlife and biodiversity. Continued neglect of
agricultural development outsidethe treecrop subsector has done little to raise farmers
out of poverty and intensifylanduse, and increased agricultural production is mostly by
extensification into forested and reserve areas and mining of the soil's mineral resources.

142.      There is clearly a needfor the integrated development of land, agriculture and



80. The Ghana Timber Association (GTA) took the FCto court on 27 April 2004 in an attempt to stop the FC
from collectionarrears of stumpage, public exposure of defaultingcompanies, and cancellationof forestry
permits. On24 June, the ChiefExecutivewho was behindthe FC clamp-downon defaulterswas forced into
early retirement. Shortlythereafter, the Minister adjournedthe court proceedingsagainstthe Judge's protest and
set himselfup as amediator betweenthe FC and GTA. The settlement agreement effectively surrenderedto the
GTA's pressure by allowing harvesting of undersizedtimber, and delay in the paymentof arrears (estimatedto
be at least 30 billion Cedis or about US$4 million) and namingdefaultingcompanies for 12 months.

                                                       48


natural resourcesto maintain the systeminbalanceand develop poverty-reducing
synergism. Inthat respect the Bank`sNRMand agricultural development strategy for
Ghanahas beendeficient. Several studies clearly illustrate the interdependence of
policies affecting land, crops, fuelwood and forests and likely trade-offs." Yet inGhana
none of this is mainstreamedinto the Bank's analytical and advisory work.

143.      Despite the progresson environmental policy, almost no attention has beengiven
by governmentor development partners to the problems createdby insecure landtenure
andthe lack of incentives to conserveland, soils and biodiversity. Customary land
ownership andtenure worked well inthe past to conserve local environments but has
proved outmodedunder increasing population pressure andmobility. At the same time,
government has increasedits central authority to allocate natural resources and mineral
rights with minimal local consultation. It has also capturedmost of the economic rents for
the central treasury and little flows back to the communities that "own" the resource.82
This has marginalized local participation over natural resourcemanagement-
notwithstandingthe small pilot projects promotedby the NGOs and donors -and in
many areas commercial interests andrural populations are engagedinconflicts over
natural resourcesuse and a "race to the bottom."

144.      Ghana's environmental management, despite the earlier improvements, was
recently fragmented across two ministries and one line agency. Although a sophisticated
Strategic Environmental Assessment was developed(with Dutchsupport) in2005 as part
of Ghana's Poverty Reduction Strategy, resourcesto implement it are limitedbecause of
the low national priority accordedto the environment by the government. One direct
resultis that M&Eof natural andforestry resourceshas languished - the last credible data
being from 2000. While most believe that environmental degradation had acceleratedin
the last five years - particularly ofreserve forests inresponse to agriculture, miningand
illegalchain saw activities there is little evidence on the magnitude and location of these
                                   -
changes. Corruptionthreatens the sustainablemanagement of forest resources.
Environmental managementappears to be window dressingthat placatesthe international
community and hidesweak government commitment.

145.      The 1997 statement that "Ghana's capacity to handle various technical and
managerialactivities inmost sectors of the economy has worsened inthe last two
decades, and efforts to rebuildthese have not been successful'' (para 52) remains true ten
years later for those agenciesresponsiblefor managingthe environment. Responsibility is
fragmented across several agencies and regulation is lax on those natural resourcesthat
producesubstantialrevenue. The failure to recognizethe public goods element of
environmental managementmeans that insufficient resources are directed at building



81. Nanang, D.M., and E. K. Yiridoe. 2003. An Econometric Analysis of the Causes of Deforestation in Ghana.
Working Paper.Nova ScotiaAgricultural College, Canada. February 2003.
82. A similar observationwas made inthe PPAR of the moderatelyunsatisfactory Mining Sector Rehabilitation
Project and the Mining Sector Development and Environment Projects in 2003. A major lessondrawn was that
``Effective, transparent, and equitable mechanismsfor transferring resources back to communities affected by
large-scalemining are essentialsociopolitical tools to ensurethat tangible economic benefits are felt by local
people and that mining has legitimacy inthe eyes ofthe public." Inaddition legalization of artisanal mining is
desirablebut needs to be accompaniedby measuresto tax and control the environmental damage caused by such
mining.

                                                    49


staff capacity and retaining them. This is a serious constraint to soundmanagement, more
so as donors have now moved to budget support mechanisms that implicitly assume
adequate institutions and capacity to derive and implementpolicy.

146.     The Bank ceasedto be amajor player (withDFID and DANIDA) inGhana's
environmental managementon closure ofNRMP. The current and downsized Bank-GEF
NRMportfolio is focusedprimarilyonbiodiversity conservation (small pilots of
alternative employment generationand micro-conservation), andthere is little attention to
overall policy, strategic and cross-sectoralissues. The Bank'sdeparture after 2002 from
sector-wide policy-rich programs (as for example inthe Forestry andNRMsectors) was
judged as precipitous by DFID, the Bank'smaindevelopment partner inthese sectors,
and had a domino-effect on overall external assistance for NRM and forestry, a trend
hastenedby a growing preference for budgetary support instruments among all donors.
This, allied with DANIDA'sdeparturefrom environmental assistance slightly earlier due
to changedpolitical and developmentpriorities inDenmark, has greatly reducedthe
pressure for continued reform, institutional strengtheningand capacity-building.

147.     Recently renewed Bank and donor interest inthe costs of environmental
mismanagement may leadto reengagement. A major piece of ESW (developed
collaboratively by the Bank with the French, British andDutch) releasedinJune 2006 at
the GhanaAid Group Meeting revealedthat poor environmental resourcesmanagement
seriously underminesnational growth. It is estimatedthat degradation of Ghana's
renewablenatural resources is equal to 5.5 percent of about US$500 million of its annual
GDP or athird of its ODA          - similar to the proportionfound in severalMENA countries
(e.g. Morocco, Syria, Egypt). Budget support could leverage development partners'
environmental concerns providingthey are included inthe performance indicators -
Ghana's Ministryof Finance and Planning, however, considers this very risky inthe
light ofpast sector performance

148.     International trade may also catalyze systemic reform. Stemming from the
initiatives promoted by the project, and its participation inthe Yaounde ministerial
meeting on African Forest law Enforcement and Governance in2003, the government
made a commitment to negotiatea Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA) with the EU
to start a "Validation of Legal Timber Program" in2005. Muchof this new enthusiasm
was driven by the fact that over half of Ghana's timber exports go to the EUand that the
EUoffered generoustechnical assistance to helpbuild localtechnical capacity to monitor
and enforcethe VPA. Followingconsiderable national and international discussion
(assistedby EUtechnical support facilitated by DFID), Ghana formalized the negotiation
processwith the EUto enter into a VPA inDecember2006 with a view to signing by the
end of 2007.83This is probably a very optimistic target giventhat the preconditions for
signature are exactly those issues that have stalled reform for the last 15 years: definition
of legal timber and agreement on system for verification of legality; chain of custody;
licensing; and independentmonitoring. At the end of the day sound environmental
resourcemanagementinGhanawill depend on commitment adequate capacity, good



83. Ministry o f Lands, Forestand Mines. 2007. Ghana's Entry into a Voluntary PartnershipAgreement with the
EU.VPA BriefingPaper 1. February 2007.

                                             50


governance and establishment o f independent regulators with enough support to ensure a
level playing field.

Lessons

149.    Experience with this project confirms eight IEG lessons:

        Borrowerownership is key to achievingprojectobjectives.Itis essential to
        gauge support at higher levels of government thanthe concerned environmental
        agencies. Care has to be taken that international environmental pressure, vested
        interests and the understandable enthusiasm o f the Bank's own appraisal process
        does not lead to financing o f worthy causes that governments are unwillingto
        support.
        Sound environmentpolicyandmanagementrequireinclusionof all
        stakeholdersandincentivesto keepthemengaged. Care has to be takenthat
        individuals and community stakeholders are empowered inthe decision-making
        process, particularly over allocation of rights to utilize natural resources. The
        assessed projects clearly show that insecure property rights allied with
        centralized, top-down award of concessions to commercial operations and capture
        o f economic rents creates conflict and promotes non-sustainable natural resource
        utilization.
        Agricultureandenvironmentare differentsides of the same coinand should
        notbeconsideredinisolation.Insufficient attentionto addressing the causes of
        rural poverty drives people to live off the environmental commons where short-
        term survival interests typically outweigh consideration of longer-term stability.
        Lackof goodgovernance and highpovertyare frequentlythe mainrisksto
        environmentalsustainability.Without addressingthese two inter-linked issues
        good environmental policy, programs and projects remain a partial solution. All
        too often the enthusiasm for environmental rescue and `doing something rather
        then nothing' outweighs the commitment to the more mundane and focused
        attentionneeded for systemic reforms and the incentive structures inother areas
        o f the economy.
        Capacitybuildingcan be a two-edgedsword. Poorly targeted environmental
        TA may be a substitute for inadequate local resources andthis is potentially a
        serious problem when government has low project ownership. Dependence on
        external funding, advisory and analytical work enabled by TA, while ensuring
        project objectives are achieved inthe short term, poses highrisks to longer-term
        sustainability.
        AdjustableProgramLoansneedto haveclear objectivesand performance
        indicatorsthat are realisticandachievablefor each phase. The lesson o fthe
        NRMP was that the APL didnot work because o f highly complex and
        overlapping objectives, too many actors, unresolved financing problems andpoor
        managerial oversight. A comprehensive approach to reforming environmental
        management need not be complex.
        Internationalconventions andtrade agreements may providepowerfullevers
        for reformof timber harvesting.The key challenge is identification ofthe suite
        of minimumenabling actions and incentives to achieve reform, and agreeing to
        benchmarks triggering outcome-based financial aid accordingto negotiated

                                    51


international agreements. A key requirementwould be the establishment o f
independent regulators to ensure transparency.
Donor cofinancing and parallel financing to achieve a common goal
coordinationin projects and the rules of partnership have to be clear. When
partnersoperate on differingschedules and priorities there is a danger that mixed
signals will be passedto the in-country stakeholders. Inthat respect common pool
budget support mechanisms have a strategic advantage inbringingcoherence to
reform agendas.


                                           53                                Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

GHANA ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2426-GH)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                        Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                        estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                       35.9           31.4               87
Loan amount                               18.1           18.5               102
Cofinancing                                5.2            5.3               101
Cancellation


Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
                       FY93     FY94    FY95   FY96     FY97    FY98    FY99     FYOO
Appraisal estimate      2.4      7.3    11.6    14.7    17.0     18.1
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)           0.8      2.1    5.1     8.8     11.2     15.7   17.9     18.1
Actual as % of          33       28      44      60      66      87      99       100
appraisaI
Date of final disbursement: May 12, 1999


ProjectDates
                                              Original                 Actual
Identification                               0412311991              0412311991
Preparation                                  0511111991              0512711991
Appraisal                                    02/29/1992              02/29/1992
Negotiations                                                         0811111992
Board approval                                                       1011511992
Signing                                                               1212111992
Effectiveness                                                        0311211993
Closing date                                 12/31/1997              12131I1998

Annex A                                              54


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                            Actual weeks                            Actual US$
Preappraisal                                     137.6                                 234.5
Appraisal                                         35.8                                  94.1
Negotiations                                      4.8                                    14.9
SupervisionlCompletion                           173.5                                 380.1
Total                                           351.7                                  723.6

Mission Data
                     Date            No. of Staff Specializations         Implem.           Devel.  Typesof
                (month/year) persons days             represented          Status       objectives Problems
                                               in
                                              field
Identification/Preparation
                     10/90             6       22   0,E, EC                  n.r.            n.r.       n.r
                     11/91             8            E, DM, SP, EG,           n.r.            n.r.       n.r
                                                    LWM, EC
Appraisal
                      3/92             10      20   EC, E, DM, G,            n.r.            n.r.       n.r
                                                    0
Supewision
                      2/93              3       7   E, D, TM                                          P,AM,D
                      5/93             2       18 E, EC, G                                             P,AM
                      6193             2        8   E, G, A                                           AS,CF
                      2/94             7       24   E, EC, G, FO,                                     AS,CF
                                                    B, AG
                      5/95             4       15 FO, E, B, 0                                          CF,D
                      4/96              5       7   G, E, B                                             CF
                     10196              3      11   G, G, 0                                             CF
                   10-11197            7       15   G, F, P, E, 0                                     CF,AM
Completion
                     10198             12      23   , E, EC                    S             S          CF

AG=agriculturalist, agronomist: B=biologist; D=disbursements; DM=data/info management specialist;
E=environrnental specialist: EC=economist: EG=engineer; F=financial specialist: FO=forestry specialist;
G=general TTL (project officer); LW=land and water mgt. specialist: P=procurement specialist; SP=survey
specialist; O=other; soil specialist, human resources, sociologist, communication specialist

S=satisfactory

AM=implernenting agency administrative/rnanagernent;AS=implernenting agency staffing; CF=availability of
counterpart funds; D=donor technical assistance delays; ST=staff turnover: FM=financial management;
P=procurement: n.r.=not rated

                                            55                                Annex A


Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecutingAgency:

FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
                  Operation                  Credit no.    Amount        Board date
                                                         (US$ million)
GEF Costal Wetlands Management                GETF            8.3          8/28/92
                                              28619
Nature Resource Management                    C3091          10.11         6/04/98
GEF Forest Biodiversity                        GETF          8.70          6/04/98
                                              20412




GHANA GEF COASTAL WETLANDS MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(WBTF 28619)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                         Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                          estimate   current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         8.3            6.9               83
Loan amount                                 7.2            6.1               84
Cancellation                                              0.85


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                    FY93    FY94       FY95    FY96    FY97      FY98   FY99     FYOO
Appraisal             0.5     2.0      4.1     5.9      6.8      7.3    7.3        7.3
estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)         0.2     0.3       1.1     1.5     1.9      2.9     5.1       6.1
Actual as % of        40      15        27      25      28        40     70        84
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: May 18, 2000

 Annex A                                   56


 Project Dates
                                                Original             Actual
 PCD                                                                 4115191
 Appraisal                                                           2/29/92
 Board approval                                                      8/28/92
 Effectiveness                                  3112/93              3/12/93
 Closing date                                  12131I97             12131199


 Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                 Actual staff weeks           Acual US$ (`000)
 Identificationlpreparation             23.9                       59.9
 Appraisallnegotiations                 23.6                       65.6
 Supervision                           114.7                      205.0
 ICR                                    14.2                       35.4
 Total                                 177.7                       365.9



 Mission Data
             Date           No. of         Specializations    Implemen.     Devel.
        (monthlyear)        persons          represented        status     objectives
IdentificationlPreparation     6   IML, lSOC, IECN, 2ENV,lDM
               10/90
              05/91            6   1ML, 1ECN, 1ENV (pollution
                                   specialist), 1 ENV, 2DM

                               4   lML, lSOC, lECN, IECL
AppraisallNegotiation
              03/92
              08/92            3   1ENB, AE, 1COF(0DA)
Supervision                    8   lAE, 1P0, lEN, lENL, 1F0,
              05/93                IAG, 1AN                        S           S
              01/94                1ENB, IAE, 1PO                  S           S
               11/94               lENB, 1PO
              06/95                1PO, 1AE, 1ENB
              04/96                lENB, lCD, 1PO
              10196 (MTR)      5   1PO, 1PROC, 1FA, 1ENB, 1RF
              05/97            5   1PO, 1PROC, 1FA, 1ENB, 1RD
              11/97            6   1P0, lPROC, lFA, lRF, IENB,
                                   1EN
              05/98            6   1PO, 1PROC, 1FA, 1RF, 1ENB,     U          S
                                   1EC

                                                     57                                      Annex A


 ~

           Date                    No. of           Specializations         Implemen.        Devel.
      (month/year)               persons              represented              status      objectives
              10198                    5      IAE, 1PO, 1FA, 1PROC, 1RF           U             S
              01/99                    5      1NRM, ISOP, 1PROC, 1FA,             U             S
                                              1RF
              03/99                    6      IAE, lSOP, IFA, IPROC, lRF,         U             S
                                              1OA
ICR
              10199                    6      lAE, lSOP, lFA, IPROC, IRF,         U             S
                                              1OA

 AE     AgriculturalEconomist Specialist                     A     FinancialAnalysUFinancial Management
 AG     Agriculturalist                                      FO    ForestrySpecialist
 AN     Agronomist                                           ML    Mission Leader
 COF    CofinancierRepresentative (organization)             OA    OperationsAnalyst
 CD      Community Development Specialist                    PO    ProjectsOfficer
 DM      Data Management Specialist                          PROC  ProcurementSpecialist
 ECL     Ecologist                                           RD    Rural DevelopmentSpecialist
 ECN     Economist                                           RF    CommunitylRuralFinance Specialist
 ENB     EnvironmentalBiodiversity Specialist                SOC   Sociologist
 ENL     Environmental Specialist(land &water management)    SOP   Senior OperationsOfficer
 ENV     Environmentalis




 Other Project Data
 BorrowerIExecuting Agency:

 FOLLOW-ON   OPERATIONS
                     Operation                        Creditno.     Amount             Board date
                                                                  (US$ million)
 Natural Resources Management                           C3091        10.11               6/04/98

 GEF Forest Biodiversity                                 GETF         8.70               6/04/98
                                                         20412

Annex A                                     58


GHANA NATURAL RESOURCESMANAGMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 3091-GH)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                         Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                                          estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                        29.33           22.55               77
Loan amount                                10.11           9.02                89
Cofinancing                                 14.8             -
Cancellation


CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
                 FY99    FYOO  FYOl    FY02    FY03    FY04   FY05   FY06   FY07   FY08
Appraisal         4.0     8.2   9.3     9.3     9.3    9.3     9.3    9.3    9.3     9.3
estimate
(US$M)
Actual              0     1.6   4.6     5.7     8.7    9.0     9.0    9.0    9.0     9.0
(US$M)
Actual as % of      -     19    50       61     94      97     97     97     97      97
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: November 23, 2003


Project Dates
                                                Original                  Actual
PCD                                                                     01/31/1996
Appraisal                                                               05112/1998
Board approval                                                          06/04/1998
Effectiveness                                                           06/09/1999
Closing date                                   09/30/2000               06/30/2003

StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                  Actual staff weeks              Acual US$ (`0001
Identification/preparation             115.2                          399.8

Appraisal/negotiations                 68.2                           187.9

Supervision                           162.8                           487.8

ICR                                    13.1                           41.9

Total                                 359.3                          1,117.4

                                        59                             Annex A


Mission Data
           Date           No. of        Specializations       Implemen. Devel.
      (monthlyear)        persons         represented          status  objectives
IdentificationlPreparation
            5/3/1997        4    NAT RES. MGMT (1);AGRIC.
                                 ECON. (1); PROCUREMENT SP
                                 (1); FINAN. MGMT (1)
AppraisallNegotiation
            11/24/1997           FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                 ECONOMICS SP (1);
                                 ENVIRON.ECON (1);
                                 NAT.RES. MGMT. SPEC (1);
                                 ENVIRON. MGMT (1);
                                 ECOLOGIST (1); ENVIR.
                                 INFO (I);BIO-RES. ENGIN
                                 (1);AGRIC (1);AGRIC.
                                 ECON (1); FINAN. ANAL (1);
                                 PROC. ANAL (1);
                                 PROGRAM ASS (1);
            5/12/1998            Delegations
Supervision

            05/24/1999      3    AG. ECONOMIST (1); NAT.          S        S
                                 RESOURCE SPEC. (1);
                                 CONSULTANT (1)
             02/15/2000     7    AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1);            S        S
                                 NATURAL RESOURCES SP. (1);
                                 AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                 CONSULTANT FORESTER (1);
                                 ENVIRONMENT SPEC (1)
             09/14/2000     33   NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.           S        S
                                 (1); FORESTER (15);AGRIC
                                 ECONOMIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                 (2);SOCIOLOGIST (2);
                                 WILDLIFE (5); ECOLOGIST (1);
                                 ENVIRONMENTALIST (2);
                                 AGRICULTURIST (1); MIS
                                 SPECIALIST (1); LOCAL
                                 GOVERNMENT SPEC. (1);
                                 ENVIRONMENT (I)
             02/01/2002     11   TTL,NAT.RES.MGMT.SPEC. (1);      S        U
                                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                 AGRIC. SPEC. (1);AGRIC.
                                  ECONOMIST (1);
                                  FIN.MGMT.SPEC. (1); PROC.
                                 SPEC. (1); PROC. OFFICER (1);
                                  LEAD FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                  LEAD ENV. SPEC. (1);
                                  FORESTRY SPEC. (1);
                                  PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
             02/07/2003      1    FORESTER (1)                    S        S
ICR
             06/16/2003     4     TTL,                            S        S
                                  NAT.RES.MGMT.SPEC (1);
                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                  (1); PROCUREMENT
                                  SPECIALIST (1);
                                  FINANCIAL MGMTSPEC
                                  (1); PROGRAM ASS (1)

Annex A                              60


Other Project Data
BorrowerlExecuting Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
                Operation            Credit no.   Amount       Board date
                                                (US$ million)
GEF Northern Sevanna Biodiversity    WBTF 5073     7.42        311212002
Conservation

