Report No. 781 a-PAK                                                                        DMI
Pakistan
Appraisal of the                                                              FILE COPY
Seed Project
January 21, 1976
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Pro1ects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the WNorld 8ank
This document has a restricted distribu   Its cond tents may not
only in the pebormance of their official dauthorizationt
otherwije be disclosed without world Bank atoiain



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
US$1                                Rs 9.90
Es 1.                               US$0.10
Rs 1 million (H)                    US$101,000
Weights and Measures
1 acre (ac)              -          0.405 hectare
I mile (mi)              -          1.609 kilometers
1 pound (lb)             -          0.454 kilogram
1 maund (md)             X          82.3 pounds
1 long ton (ton)         =          27.7 maunds
2240 pounds
-         1.016 metric tons
Financial Year
July 1    -   June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL)
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Abbreviations
ADA (NWFP)     -    Agricultural Development Authority (NWFP)
ADBP           -    Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ADC            -    Agricultural Development Corporation
ARC            -    Agricultural Research Council
FAO            -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
GOP            -    Government of Pakistan
HYV            -    High Yielding Variety
NRC            -    National Research Center
NSCA           -    National Seed Certification Agency
NSC            -    National Seed Council
NWFP           -    North West Frontier Province
PADSC          -    Punjab Agricultural Development and Supplies
Corporation
PCCC           -    Pakistan Central Cotton Committee
ROR            -    Rate of Return
SASO           -    Sind Agricult½ural Supplies Organization
SBP            -    State Bank of Pakistan
SQCO           -    Seed Quality Control Organization
TJNDP          -    United Nations Development Program
USAID          -    United States Agency for International
Development
Seed Classification
(based on OECD nomenclature)
PRE-BASIC      -    seed of high genetic purity produced by the
plant breeder.
BASIC          -    progeny of pre-basic seed produced by the
Seed Corporations.
CERTIFIED      -    progeny of basic seed certified by the Seed
Certification Agency.
APPROVED       -    seed true to species, multiplied from certified
seed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
I.   INTRODUCTION ......O@66S46666600690666660066 .........         1
II.   BACKGROUND ..........* **...**.........*.....*****.....        1
III.   THE PROJECT .....e       ............................ee        4
A.   Project Definition and Scope   ....................      4
B.   Project Areas          ...................................  5
C.   Detailed Features o......**.....o...o .............      6
D.   Cost Estimates ..........................o*.....................  10
E.   Project Financing ........ *......................      12
F.   Procurement and Disbursements ....................      13
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEIMENT *66O@**eO*4.6      .......       15
A.   General ... o ......................................    15
B.   Seed Corporations *.*.** *.*..... ..  *..........    16
C.   Credit and Inputs for Seed Growers        ..............    17
D.   Other Institutions  *...................    18
E.   Accounting Systems and Audit          ....................    18
F.   Project Coordination ..................*.*... *.,       19
V.   PRICING, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .....o ........    19
A.   Seed Procurement ..... o       ........  ......**       19
B.   Corporation Sales ....... 0....... ...... *  0     .    20
C.   Pricing of Certified Seed          .......................    20
D.   Financial Projections .. ..............00**0.....    21
VI.   BENEFIT AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ...................        22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............        24
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to Pakistan in
November/December 1974, comprising Messrs. S. Thillairajah, F. Thornley,
J.A.M. Loup, B.N. Jones (IDA), W.o. Edwards (Islamabad Office) and M.J.
Zijp (Consultant) and on information furnished by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program in its Report No. 24/73 PAK of August 1, 1973.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Sector and Seed Industry
2.   Project Scope and Size
3.   Farm Development
4.   Seed Processing
5.   Quality Control
6.   Research and Pilot Projects
7.   Technical Assistance and Training
8.   Project Costs
9.   Disbursement Schedule
10.   Project Organization and Management (including the project
implementation schedule)
11.   Banking and Credit Services
12.   Seed Marketing and Pricing
13.   Financial Projections
14.   Economic Analysis
MAP - IBRD 11616R



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture in Pakistan currently accounts for about 38% of the
Gross Domestic Product, 40% of export earnings, and provides direct and
indirect employment for about 85% of the country's labor force. Govern-
ment efforts to increase agricultural production to date have not been backed
by improvements in the quality of seed used by farmers, but in its 1975/80
Development Perspective Plan, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) has given
high priority to the establishment of an improved and effective seed industry.
The proposed project would provide such improved seed and would enable farmers
to improve their crop yields and realize optimum benefit from their labor and
other inputs.
ii.       This project would be the fourth IDA Credit for the development
of the agricultural sector in Pakistan. The objective of the project is
to establish a modern seed industry involving variety release, seed multi-
plication, processing, certification, storage and marketing. 1/ It would
cover cotton, wheat, rice and maize with lesser quantities of pulses,
oilseeds and fodder. Pilot scale operations are included for vegetable
and potato seed trials which would lead to the further expansion and
diversification of the seed industry.
iii.      At full production more than 100,000 tons of quality seed would
be produced and sold to farmers. Commercial scale operations would be
undertaken by two new Provincial Seed Corporations - one each i4 Punjab and
Sind Provinces. With the assistance of existing Research Institutes and
under the supervision of these Corporations improved,seed would be grown
on about 70,000 acres for cereals, and about 245,000 acres for cotton on
Corporation farms and by registered farmers in the project areas. Seed
quality would be controlled mainly through two new national institutions
- a National Seed Council and an National Seed Certification Agency. The
potato and vegetable seed pilot projects 4n Punjab, North West Frontier
Province and Baluchistan would be the responsibility of the respective
Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
iv.       Provision has been made for:  consultants' services to help in
seed production, processing and pilot project activities; engineering
advisory services; and training of local personnel overseas in seed industry
technology and management.
v.        Project costs covering a five year disbursement period are
estimated at US$56.5 million (M) with a foreign exchange component of about
US$23 M (40%). Project investments comprise construction of seed processing
plants, seed stores, administrative buildings, vehicles, and farm develop-
ment and machinery for the Seed Corporations; development of seed growers'
farms including tubewells and farm machinery; assistance to Research
Institutes; pilot project operations; laboratory buildings and equipment,
facilities for variety trials, and supervision vehicles for the National Seed
Certification Agency and the Registration Agency (an arm of the National
Seed Council); and technical assistance and training.
'./ Research, including plant breeding, is the function of the Provincial
research services development of which is presently being financed by
other agencies.



vi.       An IDA Credit to GOP of US$23 M is proposed of which US$12.7 M
would be onlent at 8% 1/ interest to the Provincial Governments to be used by
the Seed Corporations for capital expenditures, and to selected local banks
(through the State Bank of Pakistan) for extending credit to seed growers.
US$2.1 M representing tubewell drilling rigs, research, pilot projects and
quality control would be passed on by GOP as grants to the Provincial
Governments. US$2.0 M would be utilized by GOP for technical assistance and
training. US$6.2 M would remain unallocated to cover contingencies. The
Provincial Governments would provide funds required by the Seed Corporations
for development as equity capital, and working capital for the Corporations
in the form of loans carrying interest at 11%. Seed growers would contribute
15% of their investments, borrowing the remaining 85% from the local banks as
eight year loans at 11% interest.
vii.      All processing equipment, tubewell drilling rigs, and vehicles
would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Civil works for construction and farm development, by
Seed Corporations, Research Institutes, and Seed Certification and Registration
Agencies (US$3.5 M) would not attract foreign contractors, because of their
small size, the heterogenous nature of the work, scattered locations, and time
spread: they would be contracted after competitive bidding advertised locally.
Some vehicles, office machines, laboratory, and research equipment required
urgently at project commencement and items of small value - all limited
to a total of US$0.2 M, would be procured through normal trade channels.
Farm improvement (US$3 M) would be carried out by the seed growers themselves,
but some of this and tubewell drilling would be carried out by local private
contractors, or, where this is not possible, by Provincial Departments of
Agricultural Engineering. Technical assistance specialists and services
would be engaged following IDA guidelines for selection of consultants.
viii.     For wheel tractors, tubewells and farm equipment, customer choice
(of about 1,900 farmers) and availability of servicing facilities in the
scattered project areas are important factors. For these reasons ICB is not
recommended for these tractors (US$2.6 M) or for tubewell contracts and farm
machinery (US$4 M). Wheel tractors would be procured in three annual lots
through the GOP owned Pakistan Tractor Corporation by soliciting quotations
from manufacturers on the basis of customer preference.
ix.       The main benefit from the project would be the improvement in
crop yields, and quality (in cotton lint) for all users of project seed
in Pakistan. Annual incremental benefits at full development of the
project are estimated at US$120 M for cereals and US$170 M for cotton.
Some 2.1 million farmers or about 13 million people would benefit from
the improved quality of project seed. Additional labor required annually
to harvest the increased crops is estimated at 100,000 man years. The
projec. would benefit up to 8 million of the poorest 40% of Pakistan's
population.
x.        The project is considered suitable for an IDA Credit of US$23 M
to GOP.
1/   Central Bank Rate.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested an IDA Credit
to help finance a seed project estimated to cost a total of US$56.5 M. The
project would form an important component of Pakistan's agricultural develop-
ment plan. It would establish a modern seed industry involving variety
release, seed multiplication, processing, certification, storage and market-
ing. In the Provinces of Punjab and Sind the project would cover cotton, wheat,
rice and maize with lesser quantities for pulses, fodder and oilseeds. The
project would also include pilot scale operations for vegetable and potato
seed in Punjab, North West Frontier Province (NWFP) and Baluchistan.
1.02      Bank Group involvement in Pakistan's agricultural sector com-
menced in 1962. The Credit now proposed would be the fourth IDA financed
project in the sector. All three earlier IDA Credits (76-PAK (1965), 117-PAK
(1968) and 157-PAK (1969) totalling US$67 M) were made available to the
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) to assist farmers to
finance tractors and farm equipment, and installation of tubewells. The
first two Credits have been fully disbursed. Credit 157-PAK for US$30 M
is expected to be completely disbursed by March 31, 1976.
1.03      The project was formulated by GOP with the assistance of an FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program mission which visited Pakistan in the Spring of 1973. 1/
Following a subsequent policy decision by GOP to exclude private sector
participation and to make agriculture a Provincial responsibility, instead
of a Federal one, the Provinces submitted to IDA, in the Fall of 1974,
separate proposals modifying those contained in the FAO/IBRD Report. This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission comprising Messrs.
S. Thillairajah, F. Thornley, J. A. M. Loup, B. N. Jones (IDA), W. H. Edwards
(Islamabad Office) and M. J. Zijp (Consultant) which visited Pakistan in
November/December 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Agriculture is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy, accounting
in FY 74 for about 38% of the Gross Domestic Product and 40% of export
earnings. It provides direct employment for some 65% of the country's
entire labor force, with an important indirect contribution through the
employment of an additional 20% in secondary and tertiary activities.
Irrigated agriculture dominates the sector accounting for some 90% of
national farm output.
2.02      To achieve higher agricultural production GOP has endeavored to
increase the availability of major inputs such as water, fertilizers,
1/   FAO/IBRD Preparation Report No. 24/73 PAK of August 1, 1973.



- 2 -
pesticides, farmer credit, extension services and better seed. Earlier
attempts to establish a seed industry, first by the Pakistan Department of
Agriculture and latterly by the para-statal Agricultural Development Corp-
oration (ADC), have not given satisfactory results. The quality of seed
distributed has proved unacceptable to farmers, rarely being better in
performance than ordinary grain commonly used by farmers for sowing. Gen-
erally unsatisfactory performance by ADC led to its dissolution in 1972.
Its operations relating to seed production and distribution were transferred
to Provincial Government institutions viz:
Punjab Agricultural Development and Supplies Corporation (PADSC);
Sind Agricultural and Supplies Organization (SASO);
NWFP Agricultural Development Authority (ADA-NWFP); and
Baluchistan Department of Agriculture.
The activities of ADC and these organizations are described in Annex 1.
2.03      Since the reorganization, seed quality both physically and in
genetic purity has continued to be poor. As a result there is suspicion
in the farming community regarding seed produced by Government institutions.
Main Crops
2.04      Wheat, the staple food crop in Pakistan, is cultivated on a total
of about 15 million acres. 11 million acres, mostly irrigated, are planted
with high yielding varieties (HYV). In 1967/68, GOP imported 42,500 tons of
high yielding variety wheat from Mexico. This was sown on about 1.2 million
acres and thereafter spread so rapidly by farmer to farmer exchange that by
1973 almost 9.6 million acres were being grown. Distribution of this new
variety coincided with a succession of good winter seasons and the result
has been an impressive jump in area and yields. Yields have subsequently
fallen back due mainly to deterioration in seed quality through mixing. At
present, strong and short strawed HYVs of both directly introduced Mexican,
and locally bred varieties are available and are a satisfactory base for the
seed industry in Pakistan. 1/ About 80% of the HYV wheat area is in Punjab,
13% in Sind, and 7% in NWFP.
2.05      Rice is grown almost entirely in Sind and Punjab, in roughly
equal amounts. There is also a small area of about 135,000 acres in the
Swat valley of NWFP.  About 50% of the country's total rice area of 4 mil-
lion acres is planted with dwarf IRRI-Pak HYVs (mainly IR-8), about 20%
with Basmati (mainly in Punjab) - a long grained aromatic variety commanding
a premium price - and the remainder is local coarse grained types grown
mostly in Sind. About 30% of the crop, mostly Basmati, is exported and is
now a major earner of foreign exchange, about US$225 M in 1974. The available
varieties (IR8, Basmati 370, Basmati 198, Abasi) are an adequate base on
which to start commercial multiplication and the rice breeders are currently
testing a wide range of new strains.
1/ Mexipaks 65 and 69, Chenab 70, PAK 70, Lyallpur 73, Tarnab 73.



-3-
2.06      Maize is cultivated on about 1.5 million acres.  About one-quarter
is grown rainfed in the hills of NWFP, a further 0.5 million acres is grown
in the irrigated Peshawar region also in NWFP, and the rest spread throughout
Punjab with concentrations in the Sargodha and Lahore Divisions. The area
under improved varieties is negligible and yields have not increased from
the average of 0.5 tons/acre over the last ten years. However, improved
varieties, mostly synthetic composites with emphasis on early maturity, are
now available and merit multiplication (Changez, Khyber, Shaheen, Zia).
2.07      Cotton is a major cash and export crop cultivated on about 5.5
miliion acres, almost entirely irrigated - 4.3 million acres in Punjab and
1.2 million acres in Sind. Some 96% of the area is in American Upland type
while the remainder is in Desi (local), a coarse and short stapled type.
Yields have improved gradually over the past ten years but are still poor
- averaging about 285 lb/acre in Punjab and 375 lb/acre in Sind compared to
630 lb/acre in UAR. Low yields stem mainly from low plant populations
resulting from the use of poor seed. Lint quality and uniformity has
suffered through varietal admixture of seed. A range of improved varieties
suited to different ecological zones is available. Most important are
AC134,149F and M100/M4. These are of medium staple, and fertilizer
responsive. It is expected that a new variety, B557, with longer staple
than AC134 and wide adaptability, will be released soon.
Other Crops
2.08      Vegetables are grown on about 300,000 acres.  These represent
high value cash crops and provide an important contribution to nutrition
in the local diet. Onions, melons, tomatoes and capsicum (pepper) are the
most important market crops. Yields and market quality of vegetables are
very variable because of poor seed quality and varietal mixtures.
2.09      Potatoes.  Potatoes are grown in all four Provinces but the area
is limited to about 50,000 acres. The cultivated area could, however, ex-
pand rapidly in the plains if virus free seed of high yielding varieties
could be made available to farmers. A number of imported varieties, mainly
from Holland, have been shown to be adapted to local conditions.
2.10      Other crops grown in Pakistan and which could benefit from better
seed are pulses, oilseeds, berseem, soya bean, pearl millet and sorghum.
The main improvement would initially be in physical quality since for the
most part HYV material is lacking.
Present Position of the Seed Industry
2.11      Most farmers use their own seed of wheat and rice or barter with
fellow farmers. Probably no more than 10% of farmers on average (mostly
the larger, more progressive and commercially oriented ones) obtain seed
outside the farm from commercial sources. Purchases increase when new
and proved varieties become available. With maize, however, farmers purchase
more than 30% of their seed requirements.



-4-
2.12      Potato farmers have come to recognize the importance of good
quality seed and readily pay high prices, as much as five times the price
of local seed, for seed imported from Europe. This is because they obtain
yields 2 to 3 times more than from local seed which, without exception, is
heavily affected by virus diseases, of major concern being leaf roll virus.
2.13      Cotton farmers mostly purchase their seed from ginneries or from
seed merchants in market towns. Some obtain seed by exchange with neighboring
farmers. Specially produced good quality seed has only been obtainable in
small quantities from a few cotton ginning companies and on occasion, from
Government Research Institutes which 'leak' new varieties to farmers for
testing. The latter is an unsound practice which can lead to the release
of unsatisfactory material (3.19). Further details of the present position
of the seed industry are given in Annex 1.
2.14      The establishment of an effective seed industry is required to
back GOP's strategy for development of Pakistan's agricultural sector. A
major objective of the 1975/80 Development Perspective Plan is a 7% growth
rate for the agricultural sector through major measures which include "making
radical improvements in the output and distribution of improved seed". The
proposed project would secure a significant increase in total crop production
and also yield direct benefits to a large number of small farmers who would
take advantage of the improved seed to be produced, processed and distributed
under the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Definition and Scope
3.01      The project would be the first phase in developing a modern seed
industry in Pakistan involving variety release, seed multiplication, pro-
cessing, certification, storage and marketing.
3.02      The project would:
(i) establish and equip two Provincial Seed Corporations in
Punjab and Sind;
(ii)  develop Corporation and private seed farms;
(iii) establish and equip, at national level, a Seed Certification
Agency and Registration Agency;
(iv)  provide equipment to Research Institutes to improve production
and processing of pre-basic seed;
(v) finance pilot projects for vegetable and potato seed production;
and
(vi)  provide technical assistance and training to the seed industry.



-5-
3.03      Annual seed production at the end of the five year project period
would be about 103,000 tons - wheat 60,700 tons; cotton 36,500; maize 2,600;
rice 2,500; and other crops 700. The proposed size and scope of the project
are determined on the basis of anticipated seed demand and related to the
package of complementary activities necessary to ensure production and pro-
cessing seed of acceptable quality (Annex 2). In computing seed demand it
is assumed that 75% of the cereal areas in HYVs, and 100% of the Upland
cotton areas would be served by the project. Seed replacement is assumed
to be five years for wheat and rice, three years for maize, and annually
for cotton (Annex 2, paras 6 thru 10).
B. Project Areas (Map No. 11616R)
3.04      The project would operate on a commercial scale in two of the
four Provinces - Punjab and Sind. 1/ Operations in Baluchistan and NWFP would,
in the first instance, be on a pilot scale for vegetable and potato seed.
Total area required for seed multiplication at all stages 2/ would be about
316,700 acres.
3.05      Certified seed would be grown by progressive farmers who already
possess irrigable land suitable for seed multiplication. Project areas
have been chosen on the basis of their having an adequate number of such
farmers willing to register with the Seed Corporations as seed growers.
Provincial Governments have carried out farm surveys in the proposed project
areas to aid finla selection. Proposed project areas are:
PUNJAB -   Sahiwal for wheat, maize and rice;
Nuridke for rice;
Khanewal for cotton and wheat;
DG Khan for cotton and wheat;
SIND   -   Nawabshah/Khairpur border for cotton and
wheat;
Larkana for rice;
3.06      For cotton only, the certified seed would be multiplied through
one further generation to produce approved seed. This would be done in
segregated areas defined by statute. In a segregated area it would be
mandatory that all cotton growers used only certified seed. Movement of cotton
seed (other than pre-basic and basic seed under official control) into or out
of the area would be prohibited. Approved seed cotton would be ginned at
private ginneries and the seed supplied, under contract, to the Seed Corpora-
tions for further processing. The segregated areas would surround the
1/   NWFP and Baluchistan would obtain cereal seed from Punjab and Sind
Provinces.
2/   Pre-basic seed, basic seed, certified seed and, for cotton only, ap-
proved seed. For definitions of seed generations see Glossary in
Annex 2, Appendix.



processing plants in the D G Khan and Khanewal areas in Punjab, and the
Khairpur area in Sind (3.18). Because of the large scale of approved cotton
seed production they would be much larger than - but would include - the
areas of concentration chosen for certified cereal seed production.
3.07      Pre-basic seed would be produced by Provincial Research Institutes:
Lyallpur and Kala Shah Kaku in Punjab; Tandojam and Dokri in Sind; and Tarnab
and Pir Sabak in NWFP.  In addition pre-basic cotton seed would be produced
at the Multan Station of the Pakistan Central Cotton Committee (PCCC). All
have land adequate to meet the pre-basic seed requirements of the project.
Assurances were obtained from GOP and Provincial Governments that these
institutions would meet pre-basic seed requirements of the Seed Corporations.
3.08      Basic seed would generally be grown on Seed Corporation farms.
Suitable farms would be transferred to the Corporations from the Extension
Departments. In Sind, all basic seed requirements for rice could be produced
economically at the Dokri Rice Research Institute. An assurance was obtained
that selection of farms suitable for transfer to the Corporations would be
finalized in consultation with IDA. Transfer of farms to the Corporations
would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The Corporations would also
enter into contracts with registered seed growers in the project area for
basic seed multiplication as necessary to supplement production from the
Corporations' own farms.
3.09      Only 70 acres of land would be required for vegetable seed operations
in Baluchistan. In Punjab, NWFP and Baluchistan the potato pilot projects
would operate through contract growers apart from very small trial plots
which would be located on existing research farms. An assurance was obtained
from GOP that land suitable for pilot project operations, and selected in
consultation with IDA, would be made available to the respective Departments
of Agriculture within six months of the Credit Agreement.
3.10      The project areas proposed are topographically and climatically
well suited for the relevant crops (3.05). All seed farms would already
have canal irrigation facilities although some tubewells would have to be
provided for supplementary irrigation (Annex 3). All areas would be readily
accessible by existing roads and rail.
C. Detailed Features
Seed Production and Farm Development
3.11      The Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations would develop lands made
available to them for seed farms and undertake multiplication of basic
seed from pre-basic seed supplied by the Research Institutes. Capital
expenditure on farm development (land levelling, improvement of water
courses, tubewells), farm machinery, supervision vehicles, workshop and
farm buildings is included in project costs.



-7-
3.12      Certified seed would be produced by registered seed growers
under contract with the Corporations. The selection of progressive farmers,
registering them as seed growers and contracting with them for the required
production would be the responsibility of the Corporations' Production
Department advisory staff. They would also supervise and advise on the
growing of the seed crops. There would be no direct contract between
growers of approved cotton seed and the Corporations.
3.13      The project would finance the development of seed growers' farms.
This would be undertaken for two reasons - to induce farmers to become
seed producers (some hesitation is anticipated because of bad experience
with past programs) and as a means of improving project efficiency. Greater
output per farm would mean fewer farmer contracts hence less management
problems. Growers would be helped to plan their development by the Corpora-
tions' advisory staff. Investments would cover tractors, implements, tube-
wells and land development. Details on farm development proposals are in
Annex 3. Tubewells would be installed by both private contractors and
Provincial Agricultural Engineering Departments. With the present insuf-
ficient number of drilling rigs, however, the contractors and Departments
would not be able to satisfy existing demand, and seed growers would have to
wait several months before new wells are installed. Provision has, therefore,
been made in the project for the purchase of drilling rigs and spares by the
Agricultural Engineering Departments in Punjab and Sind. An assurance was
obtained that during the project period priority in the use of these rigs
will go to project participants.
Seed Processing
3.14      The Corporation plants would process all basic and certified seed.
They would also gin seed cotton from the basic and certified seed crops.
Approved cotton seed from the segregated areas would, however, be ginned at
existing private ginneries located in these areas with which the Corporations
would contract for the purchase of that proportion of the crop to be used
for seed. 1/ Further processing - delinting, cleaning, treating, packaging
and storing, would be done at Corporation plants. Although processing of cotton
seed is in many ways dissimilar to processing of other seed there are many
cost economies to be derived by handling all seed in the same processing
complex. Thus two processing plants in Punjab and the Sind plant would
handle cotton in addition to other seed.
3.15      The project would finance the development of four processing
plants. Capacities would be governed mainly by the planned throughput of
wheat and cotton seed; they would be:
1/   Seed from early and late pickings would not be taken for seed because
of its inferior germination.



Wheat     Cotton
Plant                           tons       tons
Punjab - D G Khan                         17,100    16,000
Punjab - Khanewal                         174100    12,000
Punjab - Sahiwal                          17,100        -
Sind                                       9,40J      8,503
An assurance was obtained that plant locations and capacities would be
finalized in consultation with IDA.  Project costs include capital expenditure
on factory buildings and processing machinery, including ginning and delinting
equipment. Transport of seed from fields and private ginneries to the plants
would be entrusted to private truckers on contract. Seed distributors would
be expected to take delivery of processed seed ex Corporation warehouse.
Hence the cost of trucks included for the processing plants is minimal and
intended only for emergency transport. Provision has been made for cons-
truction of factory administration offices, stores, laboratories, and housing
for senior factory personnel who should reside near the site. Details of
plants and their costs are given in Annex 4.
Quality Control
3.16      For the Droposed project to succeed there must be impeccable control
of seed quality (2.03, 2.04). This necessitates sound seed legislation.
Seed legislation satisfactory to IDA would be enacted by the Federal
Government. To implement the law a National Seed Certification Agency
(NSCA) would be established.  Project costs would cover the provision of
offices, seed laboratories, vehicles and incremental operating costs for
the project period. Thereafter a levy on seed certified could cover costs.
A Registration Agency would be created to undertake variety registration.
It would be established as an executive arm of the National Seed Council
(NSC). It would be funded by the project in the same way as the NSCA.
Enactment of seed legislation satisfactory to IDA and the establishment of
Seed Certification Agency and Registration Agency would be conditions of
Credit effectiveness.
3.17      The NSC and Provincial Seed Councils have been created to formu-
late seed policy. The NSC, with representation from all parties interested
in the seed industry, both public and private sector, would formulate, and
from time to time amend as necessary, the Seed Rules. These Rules would
establish procedures and standards for the NSCA and the Registration Agency.
3.18      The production of quality cotton lint demands special quality
control measures. To prevent admixture of different lint qualities
varietal zones are needed with control of ginning practices. Seed should
be grown in segregated areas with control of cotton seed movement and gin-
ning. Legislation to meet these needs exists in Pakistan 1/ but has been
inadequately implemented. It would be critical to project success that the
Cotton Ordinance be made fully effective.  Under the Ordinance, Agricultural
1/   Provincial adaptions of the West Pakistan Cotton Control Ordinance, 196h.



-9-
Department staff can be designated as inspectors for the purposes of enforcing
the law. They would be supplemented by the expanded staff of the NSCA and of
the Seed Corporations. Staff availability would therefore not constrain the
implementation of the law. An assurance was given by GOP that tile Cotton
Ordinance would be effectively implemented. Assurances were also obtained
that varietal zones and segregated areas satisfactory to IDA would be notified
under the Ordinance and maintained throughout the project period. Details
on Quality Control and related project costs are in Annex 5.
Research
3.19      Assistance to the mainstream of agricultural research is being
provided by other agencies - mainly USAID and UNDP - to the limit of Pakis-
tan's absorptive capacity (Annex 6). For the main crops there is an adequate
range of varieties on which to found the seed industry. Project investments
would therefore be restricted to facilities essential for the production and
processing of .pre-basic seed. Present methods of producing, handling and
processing pre-basic seed (a Research Institute responsibility) are unsatis-
factory. The project would finance the purchase of small scale processing
machinery to improve the processing of pre-basic seed. This would be produced
according to accepted methods on land set aside for the purpose. Use of
seed from experimental plots, as pre-basic seed, would cease. Greater con-
trol would be exerted over the release of pre-basic seed. In particular
seed of pre-release varieties grown in trials on farmers' fields would be
recovered by the Research Institutes. Failure to do so leads to release
of undesirable material and has led to particular problems with cotton.
Appropriate assurances were obtained in this regard. Details of research
proposals and investments are in Annex 6.
Pilot Projects
3.20      The first phase in the development of Pakistan's seed industry
would cover mainly the major food crops plus cotton. This would minimize
development and management problems. However, to pave the way for later
diversification two pilot projects are proposed for vegetable and potato
seed. There appears to be excellent potential for seed production of
these crops but information is lacking on appropriate production and
processing techniques and costs, and markets.
3.21      A vegetable pilot project in Baluchistan would establish a small
farm of 70 acres and a processing plant to enable the Department of Agriculture
to investigate vegetable seed production and marketing. The project would
finance the development of the farm, construction and equipping of the
processing plant and technical assistance specialists. The pilot projects
for potato would embrace Punjab, NWFP and Baluchistan. The objective would
be to establish a system of potato seed mjultiplication that would minimize
the need for imported seed and would reduce the infection of seed with virus
disease. Details of the pilot programs are in Annex 6.



- 10 -
Technical Assistance and Training
3.22      Governments recognize that the specialized technical skills
necessary for the establishment of a modern seed industry are lacking in
Pakistan. Provision has therefore been made in project costs for 384 man
months of specialist services: processing 108 man months; production 72;
quality control 72; vegetable pilot project 78; and potato pilot project 54.
In addition the project would finance 63 man months of consultant services
for processing plant design, preparation of tender documents and for super-
vision of plant construction. An assurance was obtained that all technical
assistance specialists would be employed in consultation with, and on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. Appointment of consultants for plant
design and related services would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
3.23      To complement technical assis ance the project would finance
overseas training of senior project staff requiring technical skills not
now available in Pakistan. On-the-job training of all staff would be
an integral part of the responsibilities of technical assistance special-
ists. Details of technical assistance and training are in Annex 7.
D. Cost Estimates
3.24      The total cost of the project over the five-year development
period would be Rs 560 M (US$56.5 M equivalent) of which about US$23 M (40%)
would be the foreign exchange component. Details of project costs,
sulmmarized below, are in Annex 8.



Summary of Project Costs
(Amounts in millions)
Local    Fereign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total            Foreign
(-     - Rs Million  ---)          (-------US$ Million  ---)             Exchange
SEED CORPRATION
Corporation farms             4.17       4.19      8.36            .42        .42       .84             5G
Processing equipment         21.72       57.71    79.43          2.19       5.83       8.02              73
Building and storage         25.62        6.29    31.91          2.58         .64      3.22             20
Vehicles                      2.39        2.08     4.47            .24        .21       .45             46
Working capital             1154.7         -     115.47         11.68         _       11.68               -
Sub-total                   169.37      70.27   239.64          17.11       7.10      24.21
SEED GROWERS FARMS
Tractors                      5.17      20.68    25.85             .52      2.09       2.61              80
Implements                    5.69        9.06    14.75            .57       .92       1.49             61
Tubewells                     5.88       17.62    23.50            .5y      1.78       2.37              75
Land developrent             20.73        2.30    23.03          2.11         .23      2.34              10
Drilling rigs and
spare parts                 -        lO.9C-   10.00            -         1.00       1.00            100
Sub-total                   37.47       59.66    97.13           3.79       6.02       9.81
QUALITY CONTROL
Registration Agency            .76         .28     1.04            .07       .03         .10            2.7
Certification Agency          6.16        1.80     7.96            .62        .18        80             23
Sub-total                     6.92       2.08      9.00            .69       .21        .90
RESEARCH AND PIILT PROJECTS
Research equipment             .60        2.84     3.44            .07        .28       .35              85
Vegetable pilot project        .90         .55     1..5            .09       .o6         .15            38
Potato pilot project          7.89        3.52    11.L1            .79        .36      1.15              31
Sub-total                     9.39       6.91    16.30             .95       .70       1.65
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
Technical assistance          3.83       17.33    21.16            .39      1.75       2.14             82
Training                       .25        2.52     2.77            .03        .25       .28             91
Sub-total                     4.o8      19.85    23.93             .42      2.00       2.42
BASE COST ESTIM9ATE         227.13      158.77   385.yo         22.96      16.03      38.99             41
Physical
contingencies (3.3%)      5.45        7.17    12.62            .55        .72       1.27
Prl. e
contingencies (41.7%)  102.64        58.38   161.02          10.36       5.90      16.26
TOTAL COSTS                 335.22      224.32   559.54         33.87      22.65      56.52             40



- 12 -
3.25      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal and updated
as of April 1975. Physical contingencies have been added at 10% on the
processing equipment, buildings and development of the Seed Corporations' farms
because the costs of processing plants are not based on detailed engineering
drawings and farm locations are yet to be finalized. For similar reasons,
5% has been added to capital costs relating to quality control, Research
Institutes and pilot projects. Physical contingency provisions are not con-
sidered essential for seed growers' farm development (including drilling rigs),
vehicles, or technical assistance and training costs. Price contingencies
totalling 42% of base costs (excluding physical contingencies) are also
included, representing price increases compounded annually on all local and
foreign cost components. These are based on projected inflation rates in
Pakistan and countries expected to supply goods and services (Annex 8,
Table 7).
E. Project Financing
3.26      An IDA Credit of US$23 M would finance the foreign exchange costs
of the project. The remaining local costs of US$33.5 M would be met by
Provincial Governments, SBP and seed growers. The project financing plan is
summnrized below.
Summary of Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Local
Banks
Provincial    (thru    Seed
IDA     Governments   SBP)      Growers  Total
Seed Corporations               8.7         15.5         -         -      24.2
Seed Growers                    4.0           -         2.4        2.4     8.8
Tubewell Drilling Rigs          1.0           -          -         -       1.0
Quality Control                 0.4          0.5         -         -       0.9
Research and Pilot Projects    0.7           1.0         -         -       1.7
Technical Assistance and
Training                      2.0          0.4         -         -       2.4
Sub-Total            16.8        17.4         2.4      2.4      39.0
Contingencies                   6.2          9.1        1.1       1.1     17.5
Total
23.0        26.5         3.5      3.5      56.5



- 13 -
3.27      The IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOP.  US$8.7 M,
representing investments by the Seed Corporations, would be made available
by GOP to Provincial Governments as 20 year loans at 8% interest, including
a 10 year grace period for both interest and principal. US$4.OM, representing
funds for seed growers' farms, would be made available to local banks through
the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) as 9 year loans, including 2 years' grace,
carrying interest at 8%. Conclusion of arrangements between GOP and SBP and
participating banks of procedures, terms and conditions acceptable to IDA would
be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. A sum of US$2.1 M representing tube-
well drilling rigs, research, pilot projects and quality control would be
passed on by GOP as grants to Provincial Governments. US$2.0 M would be
utilized by GOP for technical assistance and training. The remaining US$6.2 M
of the Credit would be left unallocated to meet physical and price contin-
gencies.
3.28      Punjab and Sind Governments would provide funds required for develop-
ment by Seed Corporations in the form of equity, and the permanent working
capital requirements in the form of long term loans carrying interest at
11%. Suitable assurances were obtained in this regard.
3.29      Seed growers would contribute 15% of farm development costs
(including machinery), and all working capital required. Funds for the
remaining 85% of investment costs would be provided by participating local
banks as 8 year loans, including a 2 year grace period, carrying interest
at 11%. 1/  The foregoing financial arrangements would be embodied in the
Development Credit Agreement.
F. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement /
3.30      All processing equipment, tubewell drilling rigs, and vehicles
(US$10.5 M) would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. Bids from domestic manufacturers would
receive a margin of preference - of 15% or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower - in the evaluation of bids from competing foreign
suppliers. ICB would not apply to:
(i) civil works (US$3.5 M), because of their small size and scat-
tered locations, contracts for these would be let on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with local procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
Local contractors are numerous and well capable of
carrying out such works; and
1/   Ruling Commercial Bank rate of interest for agricultural credit.
2/   All value amounts stated under this heading exclude contingencies.



- 14 -
(ii)  certain items required urgently at the beginning of the
project (some vehicles, office machines, laboratory
equipment, and processing machinery for pre-basic seed
production) and item of small value, all limited to a
total value of US$0.2 M which would be purchased through
normal trade channels. Foreign suppliers of most items
are well represented through local agents and competition
is keen.
3.31      Wheel tractors (US$2.6M) would be procured through the government
owned Pakistan Tractor Corporation which at present enjoys a monopoly for
import of farm tractors. Annually the Corporation Imports about 5,000
tractors which are distributed to farmers according to their choice of
tractor brands. Tractor requirements under the project would be small -
about 475, to be procured in three annual lots. Customer choice and avail-
ability of reliable servicing facilities in the project area are also impor-
tant factors. The procedure agreed by IDA under Credit 157 PAK i.e., solic-
iting quotations from manufacturers on the basis of customer preference, is
acceptable. As there is an adequate number of tractor manufacturers repre-
sented in Pakistan this procedure would afford a realistic extent of inter-
national competition. In order to ensure that project participants would
have prompt delivery of their tractor requirements an assurance was obtained
from GOP that the Corporation would not sell tractors financed under the
proposed Credit to third parties.
3.32      Farm machinery and tubewell equipment (US$4.0 M) would be purchased
by Seed Corporations and seed growers direct from local suppliers. Because
of the necessity to accommodate customer choice and to enable buyers to
acquire only makes for which service and repair facilities are readily
available, bulking and competitive bidding procedures would not be practical.
Local and foreign manufacturers of equipment are adequately represented and
goods are competitively priced. Farm improvement (US$3.0 M) involving fine
levelling and water course improvement would be carried out by the farmers
themselves; tubewell drilling which would lie in scattered locations and
be spread out in time would be carried out by local private contractors or,
where this is not practicable, by the Departments of Agricultural Engi-
neering on force account. The selection would be left to the farmer, with
the help and advice of the Corporations, or to the Corporations and the
Research Institutes in the case of their own farms.
3.33      Technical Assistance specialists and services (US$2.4 M) provided
for the Seed Corporations, the Seed Certification Agency and the pilot
projects would be engaged in accordance with IDA guidelines for selection
of consultants. The balance of project costs (excluding contingencies)
would consist of staff and operating expenses for the Certification and
Registration Agencies and pilot projects (US$1.1 M) and working capital
for the Corporations, (US$11.7 M) entailing no procurement.



- 15 -
3.34      Assurances were obtained from GOP that for all contracts in
excess of US$100,000, technical specifications and draft tender documents
would be submitted to IDA before bidding documents are issued and bid
evaluations would be submitted to IDA for approval before making the
awards.
Disbursements
3.35      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported items ;
(b)   100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
items procured after competitive bidding; 60% of expenditures
for other locally procured goods;
(c)  40% of the total cost of civil works carried out by local
contractors and civil works performed under force account
for building construction and farm development other than
seed growers' farms;
(d)  50% of amounts disbursed under loans to seed growers by
local banks for investments other than imported tractors
and equipment; and
(e)  100% of foreign exchange costs for technical assistance
and overseas training.
Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and for loans
made to seed growers would be made against certified statements of expendi-
tures, the documentation for which would be retained by the Seed Project
Coordination Committee for review by supervision missions. All other
disbursements would be made against full documentation. Any amounts not
used for the project would be canceU ed. A schedule of estimated disburse-
ments is given in Annex 9.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01      Agriculture, under the constitution, is a Provincial responsibil-
ity. The Federal and Provincial Governments are therefore agreed that
project activities should be decentralized on a Provincial basis with
\complete Provincial autonomy.  The Governments are also agreed that the
new Seed Corporations should be legally, operationally and--financially
autonomous. Adequate and consistently applied quality control is vital for
project success, and the certified seed offered by the Seed Corporations



- 16 -
should always be of high quality in order to win farmer confidence and hence
command the premium prices essential to finance the seed industry; this would
be ensured by quality control measures including the safeguards to be provided
in the seed legislation and by the operations of the National Seed Certifica-
tion Agency.
4.02      The commercial scale operations (seed production, processing and
marketing) of the project would be entrusted to two new Seed Corporations:
Punjab Seed Corporation; and
Sind Seed Corporation.
Pilot project operations would be the responsibility of the Departments of
Agriculture in Punjab NWFP and Baluchistan.
B. Seed Corporations
4.03      The two autonomous Seed Corporations would undertake seed pro-
duction, processing and marketing. The Provincial Governments would pro-
vide the equity capital and long-term loans required by the Corporations
for development (3.28). These Corporations would operate under commercial
codes. Business policy would be entrusted to Boards appointed by the
respective Provincial Governments (Annex 10, para 6). Each Corporation would
be headed by a full-time chief executive - the Managing Director - and sup-
ported by other Executive Directors responsible for finance, production,
processing and marketing functions. The Production and Processing Specialists
engaged to serve the Corporations would also be entrusted with executive
responsibilities during their tenure of appointments (Annex 7). During Credit
negotiations, terms of reference and qualifications for these Specialists
and Directors of the Corporations were agreed with Governments. A detailed
description of the organization and management of the Corporations is given
in Annex 10.
4.04      The Corporations' activities would fall into five major divisions
- administration, production, processing, marketing and finance.
General Administration. The Managing Director would
be responsible for this function covering internal
coordination of operations, external liaison, public
relations, legal matters, price setting, personnel
management and general services.
Seed Production. This function would include:
-    development and management of Corporation's
seed farms,



- 17 -
-    selection and registration of, and liaison with,
seed growers,
-    advisory services to registered seed growers
(including farm development and crop cultivation),
-    seed procurement from Research Institutes (pre-
basic seed) and registered growers (basic and
certified seed), and
-    liaison with local banks extending credit to seed
growers.
Seed Processing. The Processing Department would be
responsible for transport from field and private ginneries
to the plant site, processing at the plant, packing,
obtaining certification by NSCA, and storage.
Marketing. Establishing a market for quality seed would
require considerable effort to regain farmer confidence
(2.02). Market research, sales promotion and publicity
would therefore be undertaken by the Corporations though
retail sales would be entrusted to distributors appointed
by them. These would include both public sector organi-
zations, such as PADSC, SASO and ADA (NWFP) 1/ and private
sector merchants.
Finance. This function would include budgetary control,
financial planning and funds management, financial
accounting, cost accounting and control, computation
of seed prices, inventory control, management informa-
tion, and internal audit.
C. Credit and Inputs for Seed Growers
4.05      Credit needs of farmers registered with the Seed Corporations
would be served by local banks selected and supervised by SBP. Agricultural
credit services currently available to farmers are described in Annex 11.
ADBP which has hitherto played a major role in providing credit to farmers
would be excluded from participating in this project until arrangements
satisfactory to IDA have been made by GOP to remedy ADBP's financial, or-
ganizational and managerial deficiencies already identified by IDA. Based
on the recommendations of the Corporations' advisory staffs the registered
1/   Successors of the ADC Supply Wing (see para 2.02 and Annex 1).



- 18 -
seed growers would apply to one of the participating banks for long term
loans to cover their investment requirements. Under their contracts with
seed growers, the Corporations would act as collecting agents for these
banks, paying to them the purchase price of the seed procured from the
growers. However, the banks would carry the task of credit management,
including appraisal, and the risk of any bad debts. SBP would ensure that
all participating banks would follow the policies, terms and conditions
agreed with IDA.
4.06      The credit provided to seed growers would cover tractors and farm
machinery, farm development, and tubewells. Existing arrangements for
short term credit needs are considered adequate. Similarly existing arrange-
ments for distribution of fertilizer and pesticides through PADSC, SASO, the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture, and private traders are adequate to
serve the needs of seed growers.
D. Other Institutions
Quality Control
4.07            The quality of project seed would be controlled both by the
Seed Corporations and by the institutions to be created under the new seed
legislation - the NSC with Registration Agency as an executive arm, the
Provincial Seed Councils and the NSCA (3.16 and 3.17). The compositions
and functions of these bodies are described in Annex 5.
Research and Pilot ProJects
4.08      The Research Institutes would continue to operate under the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture. Similarly the Provincial Depart-
ments of Agriculture would be responsible for pilot project operations
in Punjab, NWFP and Baluchistan Provinces. The day to day execution of the
pilot projects would be delegated to specially appointed executive staff as
described in Annex 6.
E. Accounting Systems and Audit
4.09      Seed Corporations, NSCA, NSC, SBP 1/ and, for the pilot project
and Research Institute operations, the Departments of Agriculture in Punjab,
Sind, NWFP and Baluchistan would arrange to prepare annual budgets, quarterly
progress reports and annual project accounts for submission, as appropriate,
to the respective Boards and Provincial Governments. Assurances were obtained
from GOP that these institutions would submit to IDA:
1/   SBP would collate information from participating banks.



- 19 -
(a) annual budgets not later than two months prior to
the commencement of their financial year;
(b) copies of their quarterly progress reports within
one month of the close of each quarter; and
(c) draft annual project accounts within three months of
the close of their financial year.
4.10      The project accounts prepared by NSCA, NSC, SBP, and the Departments
of Agriculture would be subject to annual audits by the Government Audit De-
partment or other independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Assurances were
received from GOP that audit arrangements for these institutions satisfactory
to IDA would be made and that audited accounts together with audit reports
would be submitted to IDA within five months of the close of their financial
years.
4.11      Since the Seed Corporations would function as commercial enti-
ties the audit of their annual accounts would be carried out by private
auditors. There are several established firms of Chartered Accountants in
Pakistan competent to undertake the audit of the Corporations' annual
accounts. The scope of annual audits would, in addition to normal statu-
tory requirements, include mAnagement aspects in accordance with guidelines
to be provided by IDA (Annex 10, Appendix 2). An assurance was obtained
from GOP that the independent auditors appointed by the Corporations would
be acceptable to IDA and that copies of audited accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to IDA not later than five months after the
close of the Corporations' financial year.
F. Project Coordination
4.12      Since the project activities would be decentralized Provincially,
a Seed Project Coordination Committee has been set up at national level
for project coordination, project procurement, inter-Provincial communication,
and liaison with national and international institutions (including IDA).
This Committee has appropriate Provincial representation and will have
a secretariat adequately staffed to carry out the functions described in
Annex 10 para. 17. An assurance was received from GOP that throughout the
project period the secretariat would continue to be adequately staffed.
V.  PRICING, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Seed Procurement
5.01      The Seed Corporations would buy approved cotton seed from gin-
neries at prices marginally higher than prevailing market rates. All seed



- 20 -
grown for certification would be bought from the registered growers at a
premium. For crops other than cotton the premium would be paid only on the
portion of the crop suitable for seed, the remainder would be paid for at
the market rate for commercial crops prevailing at the date of sale. The
grower would receive the market price payment within three days and the
premium payment within thirty days of the agreed sale date. Growers would
have up to six weeks from delivery in which to nominate a sale day for the
purpose of price fixing. 1/ The NSCA would take and analyse samples of
seed from each farm to determine the basis for payment (samples would be
divided into three portions -- one for immediate analysis, one for refer-
ence, and one for the farmer). In the case of certified seed cotton the
premium would be paid by the Corporations on the totality of the grower's
delivery since it would not be possible to determine by laboratory tests
the proportion eventually going as seed. (Annex 12)
5.02      The level of the premium would be set by the Corporations to
compensate for the additional care required for seed growing. Financial
models for the seed growers (Annex 13) show that premiums of 16% for cotton
and 20% for cereals above the market price for commercial crops, would
make seed growing attractive (5.06). The concern must be to ensure adequate
supplies of well grown seed. The cost of the premium to the end user would
be a negligible part of total cultivation costs.
B. Corporation Sales
5.03      The Corporations would appoint authorized distributors who would
sell certified seed through their own networks of retail outlets (4.04).
The Corporations would fix retail selling prices allowing a sufficient margin
to cover transport costs and selling commission. To ensure a wide coverage
and efficient service, competition among distributors would be encouraged.
The three public institutions (PADSC, SASO, ADA-NWFP) currently involved in
the production and sale of seeds would be retained as distributors for the
Corporations, but only on a par with other appointed distributors in the
private sector. An assurance was obtained that Corporations would not be
restricted in their choice of distributors.
C. Pricing of Certified Seed
5.04      The low-quality seed currently produced commands prices only
marginally higher than the ruling market prices for commercial crops.
1/   This is a practice presently followed by PADSC. Without such a pro-
vision growers might be tempted to retain seed, to gain from post-
harvest price rises. This would be undesirable as they have no suita-
ble storage.



- 21 -
In contrast, the high quality seed to be processed and sold by the Cor-
porations would have to be priced higher if the Corporations were to be
financially viable. In the long term, the prices charged must be adequate
to cover all the costs of the Corporations. Financial models for the
Corporations' processing plants (Annex 13) show that for cereal seeds,
the ex-plant price would have to be about 90% over the prevailing market
price for commercial grain. In the case of cotton seed, the difference
would be only about 60%, because the cotton processing plants would
achieve offsetting profits from ginning operations and lint sales.
5.05      The better quality of the new seed would more than compensate for
its higher cost to the farmer. However, a lower initial selling price will
be required to overcome the farmers'current distrust of purchased seed and
to establish a market for the new product. GOP has thus expressed its in-
tention to subsidize seed prices in the first years of the project. The
Corporations would establish a target price, to cover all costs, to be
reached over a five-year period. In the first year of op.eration, the Cor-
porations would sell the seed at a price lower than this target price, but
not lower than the price paid to seed growers and ginneries. The difference,
between sale price and target price would be gradually reduced over five
years. During this five year period, the difference between sale prices and
target prices, which would be reviewed annually, would be reimbursed by the
Governments to the Corporations. Assurances were received from Provincial
Governments that until such date as IDA shall establish subsidies would be
reimbursed monthly by the Governments.
D. Financial Projections
Seed Growers
5.06      Farmers who grow seed for supply to the Seed Corporations would
receive a premium of 20% above the market price for cereals and 16% for
cotton. The financial rate of return to investment in farm development
and to seed growing would be in the range of 48% to 59% depending on the
crop rotation followed (Annex 13, Table 4). If this seems high it must be
re-emphasized that the overriding concern must be to make seed growing
attractive to ensure dependable supplies of the desired quality and quantity
of seed. The seed grower would be expected to finance 15% of the invest-
ment required out of his own resources, and the local banks would provide
the remaining 85% as an eight year loan carrying annual interest of 11%.
Processing Plants
5.07      The financial viability of seed processing plants has been assessed
on the basis of two models - one for cereals and the other for cotton (Annex
13). Selling prices for processed cereal seed have been taken at 90% above
market price of grain, and 60% above market price for cotton seed. The Gov-
ernments would reimburse the Corporations any subsidies involved in the



!
- 22 -
sale of processed seed (5.05). Based on these assumptions the financial rate
of return on processing plant investment would be about 15% (Annex 13, paras
6 thru 8).
5.08      A cash flow statement for the Punjab Seed Corporation is given
in Annex 13, Table 6. This shows that all capital costs during the first
five year period should be provided in the form of equity capital to enable
the Corporation to meet its debt service commitments. The permanent working
capital would be obtained in the form of long term loans carxying interest
at 11% (3.28). The Corporation would have to borrow short term to cove-
peak months' working capital (cotton and wheat crops overlap). With these
arrangements the Corporation should be in a position to pay off all its
loans and commence paying dividends on its equity caplEal from year fifteen.
This situation could be considered representative of the Sind Seed Corpora-
tion as well.
VI. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Principal Benefits
6.01      The main benefit from the proposed project would be the higher
crop yields in cereals and cotton obtained by the end users of the improved
quality project seed. Assuming no change in existing cultural practices or
other farm inputs, the use of improved seed from the project would result
in annual yield increases (averaged over the number of years assumed for
seed replacement - see para 3.03 and Annex 2, Table 2) of 20% for maize,
and 10% for wheat, rice and cotton. Yield increment in the case of maize
is higher because traditional varieties would be replaced by HYVs; in
other crops HYV areas would be virtually unchanged but seed would be of
higher physical quality and varietal purity.
6.02      In addition to increased crop production, a significant quality
improvement would be achieved in the case of cotton. In recent years,
lint uniformity and length have deteriorated through varietal admixture,
and use of degenerate seed. Average staple length is presently between
15/16" and 1". The improved seed under this project, coupled with varietal
zoning to be enforced, would give seed cotton with a longer staple - between
1-1/32" and 1-1/16". The better lint length and uniformity would command
at least a 10% price premium in the market.
6.03      At full development, the annual increase in production of com-
mercial grain would amount to about 640,000 tons valued at US$120 H. The
incremental benefit from cotton is valued at US$170 M annually, one-half
of which is attributed to increased production and the other half to premium
price on improved lint quality. Against the total incremental production
valued at US$290 M should be set off the incremental harvesting labor cost
of about US$23 M, giving a net value of US$267 M. However, since most of



- 23 -
these commodities are currently either exported (rice and cotton) or imported
(wheat), the annual benefit of US$290 M would be reflected in a comparable
improvement in the country's balance of trade.
Other Benefits
6.04      Additional benefits would arise from the demonstration effect
of the seed growers' practices. By developing their land and following
the advice of the Corporations, the seed growers would achieve better
cultivation standards which, in turn, should convince the surrounding
farmers of the profitability of modern techniques of cultivation. The
pilot projects would lay the foundations for future commercial production
of vegetable and potato seed, thus permitting diversification of the seed
industry in the future.
Beneficiaries
6.05      It is anticipated that nearly half of Pakistan's farmers would
benefit from the project, since the seed to be produced are those of the
main crops of the country. It is estimated that some 2.1 million farmers
would obtain increased crop yields from the use of project seed; thus some
13 million people would benefit from the project. Additional work would
be generated at harvest as the increase in yields would require some 100,000
man-years annually for handling harvesting operations.
6.06      Large and progressive farmers are likely to understand and
profit first from the potential of the new seed but small farmers would
quickly realize the advantage and also benefit from using it. It is
estimated that two-thirds of the farmers benefitting, some 8 million people,
would belong to the poorest 40% of Pakistan's population.
Cost and Price Assumptions
6.07      April 1975 prices have been used for all items, with the excep-
tion of foreign exchange. A shadow foreign exchange rate of Rs 11 to the
US Dollar has been used for both costs and benefits compared with Rs 9.90
used in financial projections (Annex 14 para 15). For the benefits, the
value of the incremental production (6.01) was derived by using the world
market price of each crop. Incremental unskilled labor would be required
for harvest-related activities because of yield increases. Since this
additional demand for labor would occur at a time of peak activity, the
full market rate of wages was taken as the economic price of labor.
Rate of Return
6.08      Using these assumptions, the rate of return (ROR) of the project
is 82% and remains very high when various alternative assumptions are
tested. In particular, it is relatively insensitive to investment costs
and to the shadow exchange rate. Increasing operating costs by 25% brings



- 24 -
the ROR down to 73%; decreasina benefits by 25% gives an ROR of 66%; doing
both reduces the ROR to 55%. The project is thus economically justified
under any set of realistic assumptions. A detailed economic analysis and
computations of costs and benefits are given in Annex 14.
VII. A1QIEMENTS REACH':D AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained from GOP and Provincial Govrernments on
the following major points:
(i) selection of Corporation farms, and processin!7 plant locations
and capacities would be finalized in consultation with IDA
(3.08 and 3.15);
(ii) technical assistance specialists would be employed in consulta-
tion with, and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (3.22);
(iii)  Pmijab and Sind Governments would provide equity capital to
Seed Corporations adequate to cover development costs, and
lona term loans carrying interest at 11% p.a. to cover permanent
working capital (3.28);
(iv) the secretariat of the Seed Project Coord.ination Committee
would be adequately staffed through the project period (4.12);
and
(v) until such date as IDA shall establish, governments would reim-
burse the Seed Corporations for subsidies involved in the
mark-etin- of seed (5.05).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
aoreed as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit:
(i)  transfer to Seed Corporations of farms suitable for basic seed
production (3.08 and 7.01 (i));
(ii) enactment of seed legislation satisfactory to IDA and establish-
ment of Seed Certification Agency and Registration Agency (3.16);
(iii)  appointment of technical assistance consultants for processing
plant design and related services (3.22 and 7.01 (iii)); and
(iv)  conclu3ion of arranvements between 3OP, SBP and participating banks
of procedures, terms and conditions relating to Credit to seed
crowers, acceptable to IDA (3.27).
7.03     With the indicated assurances the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US$23 million to the Government of Pakistan.



ANNEX 1
Pagc 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Agricultural Sector and Seed Industry
The Agricultural Sector
1.        The agricultural policy of Pakistan is defined within the frame of
a Development Plan. When the Fourth Plan (1970-1975) was abandoned, it was
replaced by a series of annual Development Plans, and now by the 1975/80
Development Perspective Plan. This new Plan gives greater emphasis to agri-
culture and agro-industry, and stresses the need for providing farm inputs
in general and of high quality seed in particular. This project would thus
directly further a major objective of GOP's agricultural policy.
2.        The agricultural sector contributes about 40% of the GDP but provides
work directly or indirectly for about 85% of the total labor force. About
80% of foreign exchange earnings come from agriculture and agro-based indus-
tries, particularly cotton, cotton textiles and rice. Irrigation covers some
75% of the cultivated area which contributes 90% of the national farm output.
3.        Production.  Wheat, rice and minor food grains take up the major
proportion of the cultivated acreage. The production figures below confirm
the predominance of wheat and rice, and also of sugar cane.   (Details in
Tables 1 thru 5).
1967/68   1968/69   1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73
(million tons)
Wheat             6.3         6.5        7.2       6.4        6.8        7.4
Rice              1.5         2.0        2.4       2.2        2.2        2.3
Minor foodgrain  1.6          1.3        1.3       1.5        1.5        1.4
Cotton            1.5         1.6        1.6       1.6        2.2        2.1
Sugar Cane       18.4        21.6       25.9      22.8       19.6       19.6
4.        Farm numbers and size.  About 4.9 million farmers cultivate a total
of 49 million acres - an average farm size of 10 acres. However this masks
a considerable skewing in the distribution of land occupancy. 8% of farmers
occupy 42% of the farm area whereas 61% occupy only 32% of the area. (De-
tails are given in Table 6).
5.        Average crop yields are low (See Table below).  This reflects a
complexity of factors in which lack of good seed and other inputs, shortage
of draft power, unimproved irrigation technology and cultivation methods,
and the occurrence of large areas of saline or water logged soils all play a
part.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Yields:  Maunds per acre - Malor Crops
Pakistan compared with selected countries
Wheat        Paddy     Maize       Cotton
Pakistan                   11.6         12.8      11.0          3.3
India                     12.0          17.4      10.9          1.4
USA                        20.7        53.9       53.6          6.3
Mexico                     28.6          -        13.1          7.9
Japan                        -          62.1        -            -
UAR                                     55.5        -           7.6
6.        Wheat, the staple food crop in Pakistan is cultivated on about
15 million acres. 11 million acres, mostly irrigated, are planted with High
Yielding Varieties (HYV). In 1967/68 GOP imported 42,500 tons of Mexi-Pak
variety wheat. This was sown on about 1.2 million acres and thereafter
spread so rapidly, by farmer to farmer exchange, that by 1973 almost 9.6 mil-
lion acres were being grown. Distribution of this new variety coincided
with a succession of good winter seasons and the result has been an impressive
jump in area and yields. Yields have subsequently levelled off due mainly
to deterioration in seed quality through mixing.
7.        Rice is grown mainly and to an equal extent, in Sind and Punjab.
A small area is also cultivated in the Swat valley of NWFP. About 502 of
the country's total rice area of 4 million acres is planted with dwarf
IRRI-Pak HYVs, (mainly IR-8), about 20% with BasmAti (mainly in Punjab) a
long grained aromatic variety commanding a premium price - and the remainder
is local coarse grained types grown mostly in Sind. About 302 of the crop,
mostly Basmati, is exported and is now the major earner of foreign exchange,
(accounting for about US$225 M in 1974).
8.        Maize is cultivated on 1.5 million acres, half of which is in the
Peshawar region of NWFP, and the rest spread throughout Punjab with con-
centrations in the Sargodha and Lahore Divisions. The area under improved
varieties is negligible and yields have not increased, from the average of
0.5 tons/acre over, the last ten years.
9.        Cotton is a major cash and export crop cultivated on about 5.5
million acres, almost entirely irrigated - 4.3 million acres in Punjab and
1.2 million acres in Sind. Some 96% of the area is in American Upland type
while the remainder is in Desi (local), a coarse and short stapled type.
Although seed cotton yields have improved gradually over the past ten years
lint quality and uniformity has suffered through varietal admixture of seed.
10.       Vegetables are grown on about 300,000 acres.  These represent
high value cash crops and are nutritionally important in the local diet.
Onions, melons, tomatoes and capsicum are the most important market crops.
Yields and market quality of vegetables are very variable because of poor
seed quality and varietal mixtures.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
11.       Potatoes are grown in all four Provinces but the area is limited
to about 50,000 acres. The cultivated area would be expanded if virus free
seed of high yielding varieties could be made available to farmers. A number
of imported varieties, mainly from Holland, have been shown to be adapted to
local conditions.
12.       Other Crops grown in Pakistan and which could benefit from better
seed are pulses, oilseeds, berseem, soya bean, pearl millet and sorghum.
The main improvement would be in physical quality since for the most part
HYV material is lacking. Provincial distribution of major crops areas and
production is given in Tables 2 thru 5.
13.       Advisory and other services to farmers have traditionally been
provided by Provincial Directorates of Extension and of Agricultural Engineer-
ing. Recently GOP has started an Integrated Rural Development Program to
further the same objectives.  However, it is still experimental.   The
Provincial Directorates of Extension are understaffed and short of transport.
With an average of 4,000 farmers within his jurisdiction, and a vehicle in
poor condition, the extension officer has negligible contacts with farmers.
The field assistant usually has a vast area to cover with whatever means of
transport he can find. Thus the present extension service is seen in-
adequate to provide the intensive guidance which new seed growers would
need. GOP and Provincial Governments recognize this weakness as well as the
need to improve extension service provided to crop farmers in general and to
seed growers in particular. In April 1975 GOP signed an agreement with the
World Food Programme (WFP) to receive assistance totalling US$1,205,000 for
a project aimed to develop several farmlands in Sind used as seed farms and
farmer extension service centers. Although it is too premature to assess
the possible impact from the WFP project it serves to reflect the concern
of the Governments over the need to improve extension services provided to
farmers. Directorates of Agricultural Engineering provide the farmers with
custom services, such as renting of tractors and bulldozers and drilling
of tubewells, at subsidized rates. They are, however, short of equipment
and the farmers often must either hire private contractors' services at
higher rates or wait for several months before being served.
14.       Commodity and input prices are regulated by Federal and Provincial
Governments through price controls and subsidies, through food grain pro-
curement and release, through control over imports and allocation of
fertilizer, machinery and chemicals, and through export taxes. No under-
lying consistency is evident in these complicated efforts and the net effect
on the farmers is difficult to assess. Pakistan farmers are commercially
oriented and make considerable use of modern inputs; they respond as readily
to changes in farm-gate prices of commodities as they do to changes in the
cost of production and farm inputs.
Seed Industry Background
15.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
organization, was, until its dissolution in 1972, the main producer and



ANNEX 1
Page 4
distributor of seed. This function is now carried out by its successors,
PADSC, SASO and ADA (NWFP), operating on a Provincial basis (para 25). An
analysis of the functions and failure of ADC is essential if the same pit-
falls are to be avoided in designing a new project. ADC was constituted by
ordinance in 1961 following the recommendations of the Food and Agriculture
Commission of 1959-60. It first began operations in 1962-63 and was con-
ceived as an operational agency outside normal Government channels designed
to bring about rapid developments in agriculture.
16.       The organization was divided into four wings:  Supply, Field,
Administration and Finance.
-    The Supply Wing was responsible for fertilizers, improved
seed, farm implements, machinery services for farmers,
pesticides and other agriculture inputs. Pakistan was
divided into six regions - Peshawar, Rawalpindi, Multan,
Bahawalpur, Hyderabad and Karachi, each controlled by a
supply officer with assistants located in major districts.
Later, the major responsibility for fertilizer distribution
was handed over to other organizations and to the private
sector (and not until then did sales really expand). The
allocation of fertilizer to ADC was about 25% of the national
supply, i.e. about 15% for its project areas and about 10%
for allocation to its sale depots located around the country.
-    The Field Wing was responsible for agricultural development,
including land settlement and extension in various projects
such as Ghulam Mohammed, Gudu, Kalabagh and Taunsa Barrages,
with a total command area of 10 million acres with widely
different conditions, anti-erosion work on 300,000 acres in
the Sohan Valley, construction of small dams in the northern
districts of the Punjab and NWFP, and animal breeding farms.
17.       ADC had difficulty in transferring experienced staff from the
Regular Government departments and had to recruit energetic staff from the
military forces who had little agricultural experience, or from the Revenue
Service or from new graduates. To make things worse, ADC was constrained
to carry out elements of Government policy, in excess of its capabilities,
which did not necessarily correspond with commercial practice. For example
seed targets were arbitrarily established without reference to market demand.
Fertilizer procurement and distribution were subject to changes in Government
policy; thus in 1962, and again in 1965, fertilizer distribution through the
cooperative system was ordained and ADC suffered-considerably from arrears
and bad debts.
18.       The seed multiplication and distribution program deserves
particular attention. Pre-basic seed from Government Research Institutes was
multiplied on ADC basic seed farms and then, through registered private



ANNEX 1
Page 5
growers, certified seed was produced for sale to end-user farmers.  Initially
12 seed farms totalling 22,000 acres were transferred to ADC for basic
seed growing. This area was later supplemented from the Kalabagh, Gudu and
Ghulam Mohammed Barrages so that at its peak activities ADC controlled about
40,000 acres of seed farms. In 1965/66 a maximum of 1.4 million maund of
seed was procured from ADC farms and registered growers of which only 0.64
million maund was sold as seed. Thereafter the quantity of seed, both pro-
cured and distributed, declined because of its poor and unacceptable quality.
Quantities of seed of major crops sold are shown in the following Table:
ADC/ASO - Seed Sales
('000 maunds)
1965/6   1966/7    1967/8   1968/9   1969/70   1970/1   1971/2   1972/3
Cotton      246        79        81       113       171       169       175      320
Wheat        328      415    1,042        648       237       180       259      456
Maize          2       14         4         1         5         6         8       35
Paddy         23       49        50        28        20        32        37       63
Potato
(local)     -         1         2        3          -)          )         )
Potato                                                   )        )         )
(imported) 10        41        19       37         30 )      51 )     56 )      55
609      599    1,1-98      830        463       438       535      929
19.       The multiplication system did not work; there was no coordination
or cooperation between the research wings of the Departments of Agriculture
and the ADC. The Departments of Agriculture retained the best of the few
original seed farms as Research Stations, the quantities of pre-basic seed
provided to ADC were often too small and of dubious quality. Until ADC had
sufficient seed farms of its own, therefore, basic seed was bought
as and where available from private farmers, who often were those to whom
the Research Institutes had 'leaked' pre-basic seed for trial purposes. Often
Government-produced basic seed was, in any case, not up to certified
standards. Even when ADC managed its own basic seed farms, these were
put in the hands of young, inexperienced managers, hampered by shortage of
machinery spare parts, funds and fuel. Understandably the operation of
more than 20,000 acres proved too great a burden.
20.       In addition, the registered grower system for certified seed existed
in name only and was never properly organized. No grower selection was made
and there were no firm contracts binding on both ADC and the farmers. The
premiums offered to seed growers (cotton Rs 3 per maund, grain Rs 1-2 per
maund) were too low to ensure crop care and delivery by the farmer. In
consequence many farmers disposed of seed on the open market so as to benefit
from high early season prices. Others adulterated deliveries to increase
quantities, while yet others, mainly large growers, tended to store their
crop, under poor conditions, until market prices for grain or seed rose prior
to the next harvest. Mixing of cotton seed in ginneries was common.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
21.       Seed was not cleaned, processed, or graded, but was simply threshed
and winnowed in the traditional way. Although at one time 16 seed cleaners
were imported, none was used. ADC had no special storage facilities and
merely rented and adapted domestic housing, godowns, garages, etc. for the
purpose. Seed was even stacked in the open. As a result of bad storage seed
quality deteriorated further.
22.       As regards marketing and distribution, ADC was not permitted to
use commission agents or traders after some alleged malpractice and seed
mixing in earlier years, and had to set up a network of 47 bulk centers and
212 retail points throughout the country, supplemented by mobile sales centers.
One consequence of using the farmer associations and cooperative societies
for distribution was that the recovery of debts was difficult.
23.       The result of these inadequacies was that the quality of seed
offered for sale to farmers proved unacceptable and about 30% had to be
auctioned off for foodgrains or, in the case of cotton seed, for processing
into oil.  Farmers were just unwilling to pay even the modest premiums that
ADC was constrained to charge for seed to cover its overheads.
24.       It must be recognized with hindsight that ADC was a Government
Corporation attempting to manage a commercial seed operation with in-
sufficient resources, experience and operating freedom. Its financial
structure was weak, there was no budgetary provision for seed purchase.
Overdrafts had to be obtained from commercial banks based on limits sanctioned,
after long delays, by the Ministry of Finance. Since ADC made no profits
there was no accumulation of reserves against losses, bad debts or replacements.
As selling prices for seed were fixed annually by Government and production
targets established in excess of realistic demand, the Government had to
meet the difference between the cost price and the price the market would
bear. The subsidies were Rs 2.0 per maund for wheat and rice and Rs 3.0
per maund for cotton. These subsidies offset the potential annual operating
losses of ADC but were not enough to allow the Corporation to provide a real
service to farmers, nor was it permitted to restructure itself and operate
on commercial lines. It was, therefore, neither a fully subsidized Govern-
ment Department nor a profit-making independent commercial enterprise.
25.       Provincial Supply Organizations.  When ADC was dissolved, the
Supply Wing was taken over by the Provincial Governments and from it was
created the Punjab Agricultural Development and Supplies Corporation (PADSC),
the Sind Aicultural and Supplies Organization (SASO) and the NWFP Agri-
cultural Development Authority (ADA-NWFP). In Baluchistan, the Provincial
Department of Agriculture took over ADC's responsibilities. These organiza-
tions took over most of the assets and staff of ADC and continued operations.
In fact no clean break with the former ADC was made and the new organizations
were confronted with the same problems that brought about ADC's failure.
26.       Private Companies.  For the last 30 years cotton ginners and ex-
porters such as Volkarts, Roberts Cotton Associates and Sind Land Development
Company in Punjab and Sind, wishing to ensure delivery of uniform and good



ANNEX 1
Page 7
quality seed cotton to their plants, have supplied their growers with seed.
Also, some of the broader-based and larger farm supply corporations such as
Dawood, PNO and Jaffer Brothers have been selling cotton seed since 1967.
These supply corporations have between them a network of 3,000-4,000 distrib-
utors who supply mainly fertilizers, cotton seed, chemicals, farm machinery
and machinery services to farmers. Individual distributors have adequate
financial resources and storage (150-200 tons each) and each has satellite
sub-dealers.
27.       Total sales by cotton seed supply corporations and cotton pro-
cessors have been 125-145,000 maundes (4,500-5,000 tons) annually, at 50%
premium. Some of the companies had started branching out into other types
of seed (vegetable and cereal). Current political and economic uncertainties
however, have all but stopped their development efforts.
28.       Present Seed Sources.  Most farmers save their own seed of wheat
and rice or barter with other farmers. Probably no more than 5% of farmers
(mostly the larger, more progressive) obtain seed from outside the farm from
commercial sources. Purchases expand when new varieties become available.
With maize, however, farmers buy up to 30% of their seed requirements. With
vegetables the situation is reversed. Only 20-30% of farmers use their own
vegetable seed or make exchanges with neighbors. (Vegetable seed is dif-
ficult to produce, the seed crop usually requiring totally different treat-
ment from the commercial crop.) Most seed is purchased from local merchants.
However, this seed is often mixed (variety and species) and of poor germina-
tion.
29.       Potato farmers have come to recognize the importance of good seed
and readily pay high prices (4-5 times that of local seed) for seed imported
from Europe. From this they obtain yields two to three times greater than
from virus infected local seed which has been grown in the country for two
or more seasons. However, only small quantities are imported and most
farmers use local seed. Much of this is produced in hill areas less subject
to aphis infestation hence virus spread. Unfortunately the 'seed' for the
seed crop is often taken up from the plains thus virus spread is guaranteed.
A controlled one way flow, from hills to plains, is essential. Cold storage
facilities, now lacking, are needed to carry seed from season to season.
30.       Cotton farmers purchase most of their seed from ginneries or from
seed merchants in market towns. A very few save their own seed or obtain it
from neighbors. Good quality seed has only been obtainable in limited
quantities from cotton ginning companies (para 26) or on occasion from
Government Research Institutes which 'leak' new varieties to farmers for
testing, or from bilateral aid schemes.
31.       Seed Quality Control was attempted through a crop inspection and
seed testing service operated by ADC from 1963. It consisted of a central
seed testing laboratory at Lahore and seven smaller laboratories at centers



ANNEX 1
Page 8
located in regions where ADC normally procured seeds. Field crop inspectors
and seed analysts stationed at the centers were trained by an FAO Seed
Improvement Specialist and a number received short duration training
in Denmark and New Zealand. With the dissolution of ADC, control of the
Seed Testing Scheme was transferred, as a temporary expedient, to the Agri-
cultural Research Council of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture.
32.       A major weakness was that most of the work carried out by the
quality control service consisted of ADC monitoring its own production,
which is an undesirable arrangement.  Moreover, the difficulties of enforcing
quality control and seed testing is near impossible in the absence of national
seed legislation. Further, staff was insufficient, and lacked transport
so that full field inspections could not be carried out, nor could bagging,
tagging and scaling be supervised. Nonetheless, the basis has been created
for the development of a sound independent quality control service.



ANNEX 1.
PAKISTAN                                                                             r   I  
SEED PROJECT
Agricultural Production (Quantity) 1964~-65 toa .973-74
_jd~ins                    Unt          16J5           956           96j6          9765L_ 569                19t9/10       1970/71       197 IL2       19727        193 74
Cer3A.ls
Rice                        '000 tons       1,329         1.296         1,343         1,475       2,000          2,363         2,165         2,226         2,293        2,146
Wheat                        '000 tons      4,518         3,854         4,266         6,317       6,513          7,179         6,374         6,782         7,325
Bajra (Millet)              '000 tons         439           364           365           407         325            297           349           354           299          346
Jowdar (Sorghum)            '000 tons          288          270           273           286         258            279           324           308           297          372
Maize                        '000 tons         520          531           578           779          616           657           706           694           695           755
3arley                      '000 tons          116           82            57           106           95           107            90           102           107
Pu lses
Groam                       '000 tons          661           531          625           473          520           408           485           503           544          566**
Mash                         '000 tons          17            is           16            22           15             14           19            20            17
Mtasooc                     '000 tons           28           20            30            25           22             22           21            22            27
Mung                         '000 tons          30           219           29            34           27            25            32            35            30
Arhar                        '000 tons           I             I             1            1            1              1             1            1
Other ,ulses                 '000 tons         525           130          146           147          109            11010                      120           119
Oilseeds
Rape and Austard             '308  tons        212          179           200           270         225            251           255           296          2a2
Sesarnu                     'OoO tons            9             7            7             9            a              8            10           13            10
Cotton Seed                  '000 tons         743          816           9-12        1,019       1,055          1,054         1,068         1,393         1,381        1,296
T.ins.e d                   '3000tons            4            3             3             4            3             3             3             4
Gronndnuts                   '000 tone          20           2 9           46            73           52            dl            44            56            4L53
C a sh C.r P.
Cotton (Li-at)               '000 bales    2,124          2,331         2,605         2.911       2,967          3,012         3,051         3,979        3,947         3,704
Sugarcane                    '000 tons     18,3'3        21,957        21,635        18,365      21,624         25,953        22,801        19,648       19,632        22,709
Tobacco                     :14 pounds         182          243           308           286         275            256           249           193           148
Sannhesp                    '200 balas          43           36            41            36           39             35           35            36
Guarseetd                    '300 t3lv'        107           85            79           135          ...
Condi.ments and Spices
Onions                       '000 tons         182           199          196           209         210            240           243           248           184
Garlic                       '000 tons          11             9           19            21           22             19           17            26            24
Chillies                     '000 tons          30            23           22            31           37             39           42            31            56
Veszetabless
Potatoes                     '000 tons         170          151           165           186         227            176           225           250          238
Other vegetables             '000 tons         702          831           943         1,567       1,292          1,234         1,375         1,331
Fruit
Bananas                     '000 tons           41           50            45            so           51             51          .
IMangoes                    '000 tons          343          356           625           608          618           669            .
Apples                      '000 tons         12.4         15.8          20.4          21.0        23.3...
Apricots                    '000 tons        10.8           9.0          11.4          12.0        13.3..*
Grapes                      '000 tons         16.8         19.9          20.7          22.1        22.3...
Peaches                     '000 tons         11.1         16.7           8.9           7.9         8.1            .              
Pears                       '000 tons        27.0          34.7          14.0          16.8        16.5...
Plums                       '000 tons        74.0          62.0          34.9          10.3        25.1...
Dates                       '000 tons       131.5         156.4         139.4         143.5       188.4...
Guaves                      '000 tons        80.9          68.2          87.1          34.8        75.6...
Pomegranates                '000 tons        30.1          22.2          22.0         20.0         20.0...
Citrus Fruits               '000 tons       479.3         468.7         476.9        464.6        484.8          406.5           .
Source: Ectonomic Report, Gray Cover
March 28, 1975



PAKI STAN
SEED PROJECT
Area and Production of Main Agricultural Crops in The Punjab
(in million acres/tons)
1967/68             1968/69            1969/70            1970/71            1971/72             1972/73             1973/74
Acres     Tons      Acres     Tons     Acres     Tons    Acres      Tons    Acres       Tons     Acres     Tons      Acres     Tons
Foodgrsins
Wheat     10.60     4.97      11.25     5.18     11.06     5.55     10.85     4.87      10.45     5.21     10.79     5.60      10.90      5.58
Barley     0.24     0.06       0.20     0.05      0.20     0.06      0.18     0.05      0.19      0.05      0.25     0.06       0.28     0.08
Jowar      0.60     0.12       0.52     0.11      0.52     0.12      0.63     0.14      0.58     0.13       0.56     0.12       0.63     0.14
Bajra      1.25     0.26       1.13     0.21      1.09     0.21      1.10     0.22       1.13    0.23       1.09     0.22       1.17     0.23
Maize      0.71     0.39       0.69     0.31      0.74     0.32      0.73     0.34      0.71      0.33      0.69     0.32       0.68     0.34
Rice      1.65     0.77        2.05     1.08      2.02     1.18      1.82     0.97      1.70     0.98       1.70     0.99       1.76     1.10
Total:    15.17     6.77      15.84     6.94     15.79     7.44     15.31     6.59     14.78      6.93     15.08     7.31      15.42      7.47
% TPP           70%                 71%               68.50%              66.                 66%                66%                 65Z
Gram       1.97     0.34       1.56     0.35      1.68     0.36      1.57     0.34      1.71     0.36       1.81     0.39       1.97     0.43
Sugarcane  0.91    13.04       0.98    15.90      1.12    19.40      1.18    16.57      0.97    13.56       0.91    13.51       1.09    16.36
% TPP           71%                73.50h             74%                 73h                 69%                69%                 69.5%
Oilseeds 1/
4.14     1.00       3.83     0.94      4.01     0.97      3.97     0.96      4.62      1.27      4.75     1.19       4.33
Potatoes                       0.03     0.12      0.02     0.11      0.03     0.13      0.04      0.17      0.04     0.16
Production  million bales
Cotton      ..       ..        3.23     2.17      3.32     2.24      3.23     2.23       3.70.    2.98      3.90     2.83       3.38     2.53
hTPP            ..                 73.3%             74.50h              74.60Z               76%                72%                68%
Production   million pounds (lbs.)
Tobacco    0.08     91.6       0.08     94.2      0.07     79.7      0.06     68.3       0.05     62.6      0.05    58.75       0.04    51.52
%TPP            32%                 24Z               31.1%               27.4%              32.7%               41.9%                35.4%
TPP -     Total Pakistan Production
1/  -     Cottonseed, rape, mustard, sesamum and groundnuts
Source: Economic Report, Gray Cover                                                                                                                   ro
March 28, 1975



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Area and Production of Main Agricultural Crops in the Sind
(in million acres/tons)
1967/08             1968/69            1969/70             1970/71            1971/72             1972/73              1973/74
Acres     Tons      Acres     Tons     Acres      Tons     Acres     Tons     Acres      Tons     Acres     Tons       Acres     Tons
Food-
grains
Wheat      2.10     0.82       2.04     0.84       2.20     1.09      2.07     1.10       1.93     1.06      1.90      1.08      2.08       1.23
Barley     0.03     0.01       0.03     0.01       0.03     0.01      0.03     0.01       0.02     0.01      0.03     0.01       0.04       0.01
Jowar      0.48     0.11       0.42     0.09       0.41     0.12      0.48     0.13       0.41     0.11      0.40     0.11       0.41      0.11
Bajra      0.91     0.13       0.62     0.10       0.39     0.07      0.67     0.12       0.64     0.11      0.34      0.06      0.53      0.10
Maize      0.04     0.01       0.04      0.01      0.05     0.01      0.05      0.01      0.06     0.01      '0.05     0.01      0.05      0.01
Rice       1.63     0.63       1.57     0.84       1.74     1.10      1.65     1.10       1.66     1.15      1.74      1.20      1.65      1.15
Total:  5.19     1.71       4.72      1.89      4.82     2.40      4.96     2.47       4.72     2.45      4.46      2.47      4.76      2.61
%TPP        19.27               20.2%               22.1%               24.7%               23.3%             23.761                22.7%
Gram       0.52     0.12       0.54     0.14       0.49     0.13      0.48     0.13       0.48     0.13      0.47     0.12       C.53      0.14
Sugarcane  0.15     2.36       0.17     2.73       0.21     3.34      0.20     3.19       0.19      2.74     0.20      2.87      0.25       3.73
%TPP            13%                 12.6%              13.6%                13.37               14%               14.6%                15.8%
Oilseeds 1/
1.56     0.36       1.57     0.37       1.44     0.36      1.46     0.38      1.56      0.44      1.45     0.48       1.55
Potatoes   0.004    0.01       0.003    0.01       0.003    0.01      0.004    0.01       0.003    0.01      0.002    0.01       1.55
Production   million bales
Cotton      ..       ..        1.07     0.791      1.01     0.766     1.05      0.819     1.13     1.00      1.06      1.12      1.17      1.18
%TPP        ..       ..             26.5%              25.47              26.8%               24.1%               28.2%                31.5%
Production   million pounds (lbs.)
Tobacco    0.002    2.3        0.002    2.2        0.002    2.0       0.001    1.6        0.001    1.7       0.001    1.6        0.002      2.24
%TPP        .        ..               1%                0.80%                0.7%              0.8%                1.1%                 1.57.
1/   Cottonseed, rape, mustard, sesamum and groundnuts
not available
TPP Total Pakistan Production
Source: Economic Report, Gray Cover
March 28, 1975



PAKISTAN
SEED PRWECT
Area and Production of Main Agricultural Crops in NWFP
(in million acres/tons)
1967/68             1968/69            1969/70            1970/71            1971/72.            1972/73             1973/74
Acres     Tons      Acres     Tons     Acres     Tons    Acres      Tons    Acres      Tons     Acres      Tons      Acres     Tons
Food-
grains
Wheat         1.52     0.39       1.50     0.36      1.54     0.38      1.46     0.33      1.46      0.43      1.69     0.58       1.71     0.60
Barley        0.14     0.03       0.12     0.03      0.15     0.04      0.13     0.04      0.15     0.04       0.12     0.04       0.15     0.05
Jowar         0.08     0.02       0.05     0.01      0.08     0.02      0.06     0.01      0.07     0.01       0.07     0.02       0.09     0.02
Bajra         0.09     0.02       0.06     0.01      0.07     0.01      0.07     0.01      0.10     0.01       0.09     0.01       0.11     0.01
Maize         0.74     0.38       0.78     0.30      0.79     0.32      0.79     0.35      0.78      0.34      0.84     0.36       0.81     0.40
Rice         0.11      0.04       0.12     0.05      0.13     0.05      0.13     0.07      0.13     0.06      0.13      0.07       0.14     0.07
Total:    2.68     0.88       2.63     0.78      2.76     0.82      2.64     0.80      2.69     0.89       2.94     1.08       3.01     1.15
%TPP               9.507.              7.9%               7.5%               7. r/.              9.1%               9.8%               10.07.
Gram          0.27     0.01       0.27     0.03      0.11     0.01      0.19     0.02      0.18     0.02       0.22     0.03       0.22     0.03
Sugarcane     0.19     2.96       0.19     3.0       0.20     3.21      0.20     3.04      0.21     3.35       0.22     3.25       0.22     3.44
%TPP               16%                 13%               12.3%               13.3%               15.4%              16.67               14.67
Oilseeds 1/   0.17     0.03       0.09     0.02      0.14     0.03      0.16     0.03      0.18     0.04       0.18     0.04       0.19*
Potatoes      0.01     0.04       0.01     0.04      0.01     0.03      0.01     0.04      0.01     0.05       0.01     0.05
Production   million bales
Cotton                    .       0.005    0.003     0.006    0.003     0.005    0.002     0.005    0.002      0.006    0.003      0.008    0.004
Production  million pounds (lbs.)
Tobacco       0.084    186.3      0.074    173.4    0.072    167.6    0.082    174.3    0.065    124.10    0.049    67.87          0.06    80.64
%TPP                657.               62.7%              65.37               70.5%              64.3%              45.97              55.4Z
1/    Cottonseed, rape, mustard, sesamum and groundnuts                                                                                                  ¢
not available                                                                                                                                     O 4
TPP    Total Pakistan Production
Source: Economic Report, Gray Cover
March 28, 1975



Ai NuilELX I
Tab-La
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Area and Production of lMain Agricultural Crops in Baluchistan
(in million acres/tons)
1967168        1968/69        1969170        1970/71         1971/72        1972/73        1973/74
Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons   Acres  Tons
Foodgrains
Wheat          0.58  0.13    0.43  0.10    0.59  0.16    0.40  0.07    0.48  0.08    0.37  0.07    0.41   0.11
Barley         0.02  neg      0.02  neg      0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.02  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.03   0.01
Jowar          0.27  0.04    0.18  0-05    0.17  0.03    0.20  0.04    0.19  0.06    0.21  0.05    0.33  0.11
Bajra          0.01  neg.    0.05  neg.    neg.  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  mng           0.01  neg.    0.01  neg
Maize          0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg
Rice           0.11  0.04   ' 0..1  0.04    0.11  0.04    0.10  0.03    0.10  0.04    0.10  0.04    0.09  0.03
Total          1.00  0.21    0,80  0.19    0.89  0.23    0.79  0.15    0.80  0.18    0.71  0.16    0.88  0.26
% TPP             1.3%                           1.3%           1.5X           1.7%           1.5%            2.3%
Gram           neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    0.01  neg.    0.01  neg           0.01  neg.    0.01  neg
Sugarcane       ..     ..       ..    ..               ..    ..      ..    ..       ..    ..        ..
X TPP           ,       .       .      .       .       .      .       .      .      .       .      .       .
Oilseeds 1/   0.09  0.01    0.08  0.01    0.10  0.01    0.10   0.01   0.07  0.01    0.06  0.09
Potatoes      0O.01  0.02     0.01 0.06      neg.  0.03    0.01   0.04    neg.  0.02    0.01  0.02
Production   million bales
Cotton         neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.    neg.  neg.
%: TPP..               .        ..    .       ..     ...             ...            .       ..    ...             .
Production   million pounds (lbs)
Tobacco       0.005  6.1    0.OC3  5.8    0.003  7.2         .OO   4.9      .G04  4.7    .006  10.3    0.01   11.20
% TPP             2.1%           2.4%            2.7%           2.0%            2.4%           7 . 4%         7.7%
TPP     Total Pakistan Production
Neg.    Negligible
1/ Cottonseed, rape, mustard, sesamum and groundnuts.
Source: Economic Report, Gray Cover
March 28, 1975



ANNEX 1
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Classification of Farms by Size and Groups
Farm Size (acres)                 Farms                      Farm Area
Number     Percent       (Total acres)    Percent
Total                    4,859,983       100         48,929,583          100
Under 1.0                  742,216        15            334,356            1
1.0 - 2.5                  855,732        18          1,345,475            3
2.5 - 5.0                  805,984        16          2,911,107            6
5.0 - 7.5                  580,952        12          3,545,720            7
7.5 - 12.5                 758,703        16          7,356,971           15
Source:  Economic Report, Gray Cover
March 28, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Scope and Size
1.        The proposed size and scope of the project are determined mainly
by choice of crops, anticipated seed demand and that package of complementary
activities necessary to ensure the production and processing of the required
seed quantities to the desired quality. In addition the pilot project
operations are seen necessary to pave the way for a broadening of project
activity in a second phase of seed industry development.
2.        The history of the development of the seed industry in Pakistan is
given in Annex 1. In order to lay sound foundations for growth when starting
the industry virtually from scratch, the project would be confined to large-
scale production of seed of the main cereals: wheat, rice and maize, plus
the main cash crop, cotton. Only small quantities of other seeds (pulses,
millets, sorghum, oil seeds and fodders) would be produced (para 12). The
aim is to produce seed of the highest quality, to internationally accepted
standards, and to induce widespread use by farmers. Where varietal material
is available, as with the three main cereals, certified seed would be the
end product; with cotton, because of the proposed large-scale and nature of
operations, - zonal flooding - a further generation (approved seed) would
be produced.  With other crops, where there is as yet no varietal material-
to register, again only approved seed would be produced. The Appendix
defines the classes of seed referred to in this report: pre-basic, basic,
certified and commercial.
Seed Quantities
3.        Cereals - The project objective is to satisfy, at full development,
the anticipated countrywide demand for quality seed to be sold at a price
sufficient to sustain financially viable production and processing operations.
The factors taken into account in assessing demand are:
(i) total area of crop, irrigated and rainfed;
(ii) estimated area of crop under high yielding varieties (HVYs);
(iii) anticipated increase in area under HYVs;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iv) proportion of HYV area 1/ in the cash market; and
(v) the rate of seed renewal.
4.        In the late 1960's HVYs of wheat and rice were introduced into
Pakistan from Mexico (Mexipak) and the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) respectively. These were markedly superior to indigenous material and
their use spread rapidly. In the case of wheat this was only made possible
because of the initial large import of seed, ca 42,000 tons (with rice the
seed rate: yield ratio is high and hence varietal spread easier). Today
the position is that there is no adequate system of servicing the large HYV
areas of wheat and rice with seed of good quality, or at a rate sufficient
to replace varieties satisfactorily. Thus through the use of poor quality
seed and overlong retention of varieties yields are well below potential.
There is wide recognition of this situation particularly amongst progressive
farmers. Many indicated to the appraisal mission the great need for quality
seed.
5.        In maize there is only a limited use of improved seed.  There
has been no dramatic increase in yields from the introduction of imported
HYV material as with wheat and paddy. However, improved material is now
available from the plant breeders and an expanded program of extension and
demonstration is to be launched with the backing of CYMMIT 2/ staff. (Annex
6)
6.        The project would aim to service the present area of HVY wheat and
rice. This area is not expected to expand significantly. HYV wheat already
occupies about 90% of irrigated areas and 50-60% of rainfed areas. HYV use
in rainfed areas is not expected to increase much because the HYV material
available is not suitable for areas of marginal growing conditions. Although
the proportion of rice area in HYVs is less than that of wheat, it is not
expected to expand significantly either. Areas not growing HYVs now, are, in
the main, either saline, waterlogged or both and unsuitable for the HYV
material available. In contrast, the HYV maize area is expected to expand,
from the present 5% to about 40% of the total area as a result of the project.
7.        In calculating demand, it is assumed that some farmers, usually
the smaller and poorer ones, would continue to obtain seed on a farmer to
farmer exchange basis. Thus cash demand has been assumed to account for
75% of the HYV area.
1/   Area is used here as a proxy for farmers.  While no attempt is made
at quantification, in terms of proportions of farmers, it is assumed
that a preponderence of larger farmers will buy seed and that they farm
a disproportionate share of land, hence the rather large proportions
of HYV area assumed to be in the cash market.
2/   International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre in Mexico.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The final factor in assessing the quantity of seed required is the
rate of seed renewal. Five years has been assumed for wheat and rice, but
only three years for maize which, being open pollenated, is subject to more
rapid deterioration. Table 1 gives details of assumptions made and shows
the anticipated certified seed demand for all crops except cotton. The
quantities of pre-basic and basic seed required are a direct function of the
certified seed to be produced and are shown in Table 2.
9.        Cotton - The project would aim to produce sufficient cotton seed to
"flood" the entire area devoted to the American upland type (G. hirsutum)
i.e. 96% of the total cotton area. The choice of this flooding approach
is dictated by two factors. Firstly, only by zoning cotton production on
a varietal basis can lint of uniform staple length be produced. This is
demanded by the Cotton Export Corporation and the textile trade and they
will pay a premium for it. At present, because of varietal admixture and
the use of poor seed, staple length has deteriorated and is below the
uniformity and potential of the varieties in use.  This is illustrated in
Table 3. The second factor is that the cotton grower represents a. captive
market in that he must renew his seed annually. This presents an ideal
opportunity to supply quality seed of recommended varieties.
10.       Because of cotton's open pollenated character, regrown cotton seed
degenerates quickly over few generations from pre-basic. This degeneration
is accelerated where several varieties are grown in close proximity as is
current practice. To prevent this happening single variety zones should be
established. Within the varietal zone segregated areas are necessary in
which different generations of cotton seed can be produced under carefully
controlled conditions. Movement of other varieties into segregated areas
should be prohibited to stop admixture of seed occuring in the ginneries
operating in the segregated areas. The need for such an approach is
recognized in Pakistan and legal sanctions exist to create varietal zones and
segregated areas, and to ensure that they are observed. However, these
sanctions have never been observed.
11.       Under the project three zones would be established.  In Northern
Punjab some 1.6 million acres are suitable for the variety AC134. In Central
Punjab about 2.2 million acres comprise a zone suitable for 149F, and in
Sind the entire area of about 1.2 million acres should comprise a zone growing
M100. Thus the total area for which cotton seed would be produced amounts to
some 5.0 million acres requiring about 37,000 tons of seed. Table 4 shows
how this figure is computed, the area necessary to produce it and the quan-
tities of earlier generations of seed required.
12.       Other Crops - Small quantities of seed of pulses, millet, oilseeds,
sorghum and berseem would be produced. The objective would be to test farmer
demand for such seed and lay the ground for possible diversification of
project activity at a later stage. Larger scale activity in these crops
cannot be justified at present, because, in the main, effort should be
concentrated on the major food and cash crops until the seed industry has
been soundly launched; there is also no basis on which to estimate demand
for such seed since farmers have never been exposed to quality seed for these
minor crops.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Seed Production
13.       The production of seed, of all generations, would be organized by
the Provincial Seed Corporations. The areas to be planted are a function of
the net quantities of seed required, anticipated yields, and losses through
field rejections and processing. Details are shown in Table 1.
14.       Pre-basic Seed - would be produced at Research Institutes under
the supervision of the plant breeders responsible for the different crops.
Locations would be as follows:
Province        Research Institute                    Crops
NWFP          Tarnab                     Wheat, Rice, Minor Crops,
Pir Sabak 1/              Maize, Soyabean, Millet
Punjab        Lyallpur                  Wheat, Cotton, Maize, Minor
Crops
Multan                     Cotton
Kala Shah Kaku            Rice
Sind         Tandojam                   Wheat, Cotton, Maize, Minor
Crops
Dokri                      Rice
15.       Present methods of producing and processing pre-basic seed are known
to be inadequate. The entire seed industry is vulnerable to deficiencies in
the quality and quantity of pre-basic seed produced. The production of
pre-basic seed must be of primary concern to the plant breeder since without
it breeding work comes to nothing. The deficiencies in present methods of
pre-basic seed production and proposed remedies are discussed in Annex 6.
Every effort must, therefore, be made to produce seed of the highest quality
and also to safeguard against supply constraints. Federal and Provincial
Governments would ensure that Research Institutes would follow sound methods
in pre-basic seed production and that their annual production would meet
the Seed Corporations' requirements.
16.       All pre-basic seed would be processed through special equipment
at the Research Institutes to minimize the risk of mixing.
17.       Basic Seed - As with pre-basic seed, quality is of paramount concern.
In order to ensure the closest possible control over production and handling,
it is proposed that the bulk of basic seed be produced under direct Corporation
control. Sites for the Corporation farms have yet to be finalized and final
selection would be done in consultation with IDA. It is proposed that suitable
1/   Because of shortage of land at Tarhab some pre-basic seed of wheat
may have to be produced at Pir Sabak.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
existing Government farms, now run by the Extension Departments, be handed
over to the Corporations for seed farms. Several farms were seen by the
appraisal mission from which suitable farms, would be selected. Development
needs and costs have been worked out on the basis of a 1,000-acre model which
was indicated by the appraisal field visits (Annex 3).
18.       Any shortfall in basic seed production would be met by contract
growing. Shortfalls would only occur after the project had been underway for
a few years. At that time, it would be possible to select the best from
among the certified seed growers and use them for basic seed production.
Such farmers would be subject to greater supervision than certified seed
growers to ensure the higher quality required for basic seed.
19.       Certified Seed - The Corporations would contract with private
farmers for the production of certified seed. It is estimated that about
1,900 farmers each farming 100 acres would be needed to produce the proposed
quantities of certified seed. In order to reduce seed supply risks and to
minimize managerial problems, only progressive farmers with large, well
developed farms, would be selected as seed growers. The major exception to
this policy would be the use of members of the Colony Cooperative Farming
Union at Khanewal as seed growers. Here farm size is only 12-1/2 acres but
the high degree of organization and cooperation developed in the Union would
more than compensate for the small farm size.
20.       Farmer selection would be handled by the Corporation Production
Departments. In advance of the first season for growing certified seed, the
Production Department staff would publicize project activity, and the need
for contract growers, throughout the project area. An attempt would be selected
to register as many farmers as possible up to the number required at full
development. Seed production would then be expanded by increasing the quantity
of seed contracted to each farmer rather than expanding the number of farmers.
Adopting this approach would maximize the exposure of farmers to project
staff influence during the development period. It would enable the greatest
impact to be made on farm development and allow greater selectivity among
growers during the development period because of the greater exposure to
staff.
21.       Approved Seed - As mentioned above (para 2) a fourth generation of
approved cotton seed would be produced. In order to ensure the maintenance
of varietal purity segregated areas would be created within each cotton
variety zone. (These would be legally binding, Annex 5). Within the segregated
areas certified seed would be produced under contract by registered growers.
This seed cotton would be ginned and the seed processed by the Corporations.
It would then be sold to all farmers in the segregated area wishing to grow
cotton. It would be illegal to use other than certified seed of the approved
variety in the segregated area. Thus it would be unnecessary to register
farmers. All cotton seed produced in the segregated area would be sold to
ginneries located within the area. It would be illegal to move seed cotton



ANNE 2
Page 6
or cotton seed (even for oil milling) into a segregated area (except for
pre-basic and basic seed). The ginneries would supply cotton seed, excluding
that from the early and late pickings which has doubtful germination, to the
Corporations. This would be processed for sale as approved seed. In
drawing the boundaries of the segregated area it would be important to
ensure an adequate supply of seed cotton to the ginneries lying within the
proposed boundaries. Failure to do so would be to tempt ginnery owners
to acquire seed cotton from outside the segregated area. Legal sanction
would be no substitute for sound planning in this respect.
Project Location
22.       The number of processing plants would be kept to a minimum because
of economies of scale in processing (Annex 4). The proposed seed quantities
would be processed at one in Sind and three in Punjab. To minimize managerial
and farm to plant seed transport problems, production would be concentrated in
as small an area as possible around each plant.  Suitable areas would have:
(i) a suitable processing plant site as centrally located
as possible;
(ii) a good road network;
(iii) an acknowledged repute for good farming;
(iv) good soils;
(v) predominantly sweet ground water; and
(vi) a good network of powerlines for tubewell energization.
23.       In Sind the main production area, in which the plant would be
located, would cover the northern portion of Nawabshah District and the
adjacent southern portion of Khairpur District. This location is a comr-
promise. In Sind the further north cotton seed is produced the better is its
quality -- the proportion of immature seed is less, hence germination is
better.  However, further north than the area chosen there is no area
sufficiently developed to produce the concentration of progressive farmers
desired. Hence the compromise; a slightly inferior zone for cotton seed
accepted in the interests of selecting an area that will have a concentra-
tion of progressive farmers. The chosen area does not produce rice. In
Sind, rice production is mainly on the Indus right bank. The project's
rice secd would be grown in Larkana District and trucked to the plant for
processing. In both management and financial terms this would be better
than locating a small plant in Larkana just for processing rice seed.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
24.       In Punjab the choice of two of the production areas is governed
by the need for two segregated areas to produce cotton seed of two varieties.
DG Khan would be a suitable segregated area for variety 149F -- to supply
a varietal zone covering: DG Khan plus Bahawalpur (except Bahawalnagar)
Multan (part), Muzzafargarh and Rahimcar Khan. Within the segregated
area a smaller area around the processing plant - which would be near DG
Khan town - would produce wheat and such other minor crop seed as required.
The second segregated area for variety AC134 would supply the rest of the
Province not mentioned above. It would be on the main Lahore - Multan road
in the Khanewal - Mian Channu area. The plant would be located near
Khanewal or Mian Channu. Again wheat and other seed would be produced from
a smaller area close around the plant. (This segregated area would embrace,
and use land operated by members of, the Khanewal Colony Cooperative Farming
Union).
25.       The third area in Punjab would be in the vicinity of Sahiwal.  The
main crop would be wheat - with rice and maize in the monsoon season.  Coarse
rice is grown in the Sahiwal area but the main basmati area is around Muridke,
north of Lahore. An attempt would be made to grow basmati rice seed in a
non-traditional area, to minimize transport costs. To the extent that this
was unsuccessful basmati rice would be grown in traditional areas and trucked
to the plant.



ANNEX 2
Appendix
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Classes of Seed
(i)  pre-basic seed (sometimes called nucleus) is produced
under the control of the plant breeder and of high genetic
purity;
(ii)  basic seed (sometimes called foundation) is the progeny
of pre-basic seed or, infrequently, of basic seed which can
be traced to pre-basic seed. Production should be supervised
and approved by the Seed Certification Agency and according
to the certification standards prescribed for the particular
crop;
(iii)  (a)  certified seed (first generation) is the progeny of
basic seed.
(b) certified seed (second generation) is the progeny
of first generation certified seed and may not be
used to produce seed for reproduction. The production
of certified seed should be supervised and approved by
the Seed Certification Agency according to the certifi-
cation standards prescribed for the particular crop.
(iv) approved seed is true to species and of the minimum physical
quality prescribed for the particular crop.
1/   Based on OECD nomenclature.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Certified Seed Requirements (Cereals)
Seed
Percentage                     Annual Area      Rate                                          Yield    Certified
Percentage      of HYV           Annual        Receivin,       ,Mauads   Net Certified    Gross Seel          Haunds   Seed Area
Crop Area       of Crop         Seed Bought!/   Replace-       New Seed'         Per     Seed Required    Required/           Per       Required
Province        Crop             ('000 acres)    Area in HYV    Comnercially    ment Rate    ('000 acres)    AQ=            ('000 maunds)    ('000 maunds)   Acre           (acres)
Wheat (Irr.)        8,432              80               75             .20           1,012.0       1.0           1,012.0          1,304.0           35      37,260
Wheat (Rainfed)    2,283               60               75             .20              205.5      1.0             205.5            264.8          35        7,570
Punjab          Rice                1,725              67               75             .20              172.5       .2              34.5             44.5          40        1.110
Maize                 565              40               75             .33               56.5       .5              28.2             36.4          35        1,040
Gram                  465              25               50             .25               14.4       .4               5.7              7.4            9         820
Wheat (Irr.)        1,894              90               75             .20              255.7      1.0             255.7            329.5           35       9,410
Sind           Rice                 1,682             60                75             .20             151.4        .2              3C.3             39.1          40          980
Gram                  459              25               50             .25               14.2       .4               5.7              7.3            9          810
Wheat (Irr.)           702             90               75              .20              94.8      1.0              94.8            122.2           35        3,490
Wheat (Rainfed)       999              50               75             .20               74.9      1.0              74.9             96.5           35       2,760
NWFP            Rice                  135              75               75              .20              15.3        .2              3.1              3.9           40          100
Maize                 829              40               75             .33.              82.9        .5             41.5             53.4           35        1,530
Gram                  223              25               50             .25                6.9        .4              2.8              3.6            9         400
Wheat              15,992               -                -               -           1,794.3          -          1,643            2,157              -       60,490
Total           Rice                3,542                                                _             339.2         -              68               88              -        2,190
Maize               1,394                       -                        -             139.4         -              70               90              -        2,570
Gram                1,147               -                -               -              35.5         -              14               18              _        2,030
1/   Rather than obtained in farmer-to-farmer exchange.  Figure is a mission judgement.                                                                                                  |
2/   Product of the four numbers to the left.
3/   Gross seed is greater than net seed to allow for 3% field rejections and 207 factory wastage.
&/   Details for Baluchistan not included in Table because quantities are margLnal - maximum net oertified seed requiremnts
less than 50 thousand maurds to be provided by the Punjab and Sind Corporations.



PAKISTAN
SEND PROJIYT
basic and Pre-Basic Seed Requirements (Cereals)
2/
--------- Baic Seed-Second Generation-----------   --------- Basic Seed-First Generation ------------   -------------   Pre-Basic Seed ----------------
Yield                                                      Y.d                                                         il
Maunds    Certified        Net Seed        Gross Seed 3/ aunda          Area         Net Seed        Gross Seed        M Maunds     Area        Net Seed         Grosa Seed 4/  Haunde        Area
Per       Seed Area      Required          Required        Per       Required       Required          Required        Per       Required       Required          Required        Per       Required
Province   Crop    Acre         (Acres)        (Maunds)         (l4aunids)      Acre       (Acres)       (Haunds)          fMums)          Acre        (Acres)      (Maunds)           (Iad.)         Acre       (Acres)
Punjab      Wheat    1.0         44,830         44,830            52,740          35        1,500          1,500             1,770            35         50           50                 75            35           2
Rice      .2          1,110           -                 -             -          -               220               260           40           7            1.5                2.5          40            .1
Maize      .5         1,040           -                 -             -          -               520               610            35         18            9                15             35            .3
Gram       .4           820           -                 -             -          -               330               390             9         45           18                27              9           3
Sind        Wheat    1.0          9,410          9,410            11,070           35          320           320               375            35         11           11                l              35           .5
Rice       .2           980           -                 -             -          -               200               235           40           6            1.2               2             40            .1
Gram       .4           810           -                 -             -          -               330               390             9         45           18                27              9           3
NWFP 5/    Wheat    1.0           6,250          6,250             7,350          35           210           210               250            35          7             7                11            35            .3
Rlice      .2           100           -                 -             -          -                20                24             0            6            .2                 3          40           reg.
Raize      .5         1,530           -                 -             -          -               770               9)0            3-         26           13                20             35            .5
Gram       .4            400          -                 -             -          -               160               190             9         20           20                 30             9           3
1/ Rather than obtained in farmer-to-farmer exchuange.  Figure is a missi on judgemeft .
Becauae of the large wheat area two generations of wheat seed would be prodiiced.
3/ 15% lossee, rejections, etc. assuiaed..
Allowance made for 50% safety margin.
/  NWFPs research institutes will deliver pre-basic seed pro.duced to the Punjab Seed Curpuration for furtber multipli.ation.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
PAKISTAN
SEED FRECT
Scope and Size
Cotton tint Length
The potential staple length of the main cotton varieties now grown
is:
Variety                                 _Staple length (In&aes)
AC134                                      15/16  tol 1/16
149 F                                      1      tol 1/16
M4                                        27/32   tol 1/32
Ml0oo                                     1       tol 1/16
The staple length produced is lower:
Staple length                              Percentage of Production ,/
1971/72    1972/73    1973/74
Short (under 13/16")                         5.3        5.5         5.7
Medium (13/16" to 1 ")                      81 .3      76.8        76.3
Medium long (1 1/32" to 1 3/32")            13.2       16.8        17.6
Long (1 1/8" to 1 5/1611)                    0.1        0.9         0.4
From the above it can be seen that the bulk of production is of a staple length
below the potential of the main varieties.
1/ Source: Pakist4.n Central Cotton Committee.



PAKISTAN
SEED FROJECT
Sumnary of Acreage and Cotton Seed Requirements I/
Seed Area         Quantity of Seed
(in acres)            (in tons)
Processed      Grown
Khanewal - Northern Punjab 2
Pre Basic                                        1.25               0.35
Basic                                           48                 12.35  )    760
Certified i/                                 1,680                474
Approved seed 6/ from segregated
area for 1.6 million acres               64,428                           18150
Sub-total                                      66,157             12,287         19.210
DG Khan - Central Punjab 31
Pre Basic                           ~~~~~~~2.4i         0.7    )
Basic   c90                                                        25.3   )  1,560
Certified 5 /, 7/                            3,440                970      )
Approved seed 6/ from segregated
area (DG KhanT to cover 2.1 million
acres (2.2-0.1 (segregated area))       132,000             15.440         24,130
Sub-total                                     135532              1636            5690
Sind
Pre Basic                                        0.83               0.2 )
Basic                                           32                  9            555
Certified       6                            1,230                346      )
Approved  seed 2   from segregated            ,
area (Guddu Barrage) to cover
1.1 million acres (1.2-0.1)
(segregated area))                       42.700              8.100        12.600
Sub-total                                      43,963              8,455         13,215
TOTAL                                245,652             37.178        58.115
/  Seeding Rates: ,2 maund per acre or 136 acrds per ton.
2/  Total area 1.6 million acres, Variety AC 134
3/  Total area 2.2 million acres, Variety 149F
V4/  Total area 1.2 million acres, Variety M4
or M100
5/   Average yield or seed cotton 18 maumds oer acre or 7.7 manmds per acre of
processed cotton seed (t4% of total seed)
6   Average yield of clean seed 5 maunds per acre or 1/5 ton per acre.
L/ Sufficient to"tlood"DG Khan segregated area of 132,000 acres.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Farm Development
1.        Every attempt would be made to select  progressive farmers with well
developed farms as seed growers. Nevertheless, after so doing, it would still
be possible to improve the level of development of the average grower's farm.
Farm development would be undertaken for two reasons. First, as an induce-
ment to attract farmers to become seed producers (some hesitance is antici-
pated because of bad experience with past programs). Second, as a means of
improving project efficiency. By making seed growing attractive some farmer
selection would be possible. Further, by developing farms their output would
be increased. Both factors would enable the Corporations to concentrate
seed growing around the processing plants and thus (i) reduce management
problems through fewer farmer contracts, and (ii) reduce transport costs.
2.        The Corporation  Production Departments would be responsible for the
selection of farmers and for advising those selected on needed improvements
to their farms. These would consist mainly of (i) purchase of additional
tractors and equipment, (ii) drilling of tubewells, and (iii) land levelling
and irrigation channel improvement. The Corporation staff would assist
farmers in their approaches to credit institutions for loans. They would also
help them acquire necessary services - contractors, etc - for development.
However, the Corporations would have no direct involvement in credit or
development activity.
Present Situation
Mechanization
3.        There are now 27,000 - 28,000 agricultural tractors in Pakistan and
numbers are increasing rapidly. Farmer demand for tractors is strong; the
ADBP reports outstanding orders for over 6,000 tractors. Sales over the past
four years have been in the range 3,500 to 5,500 per annum. It is Government
policy to increase mechanization. In 1970 a policy review committee recom-
mended an annual increase of 12-1/2% in the tractor population 1/ and it
would appear that this objective is being pursued.
1/ "Farm Mechanization in West Pakistan", Ministry of Works and Agriculture,
1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        As in many countries inadequate spares supplies have reduced tractor
utilization. Problems arose both over foreign exchange, procurement arrange-
ments, and inadequate dealership networks. The position is improving, par-
ticularly for the more popular Massey Ferguson and Ford makes.
5.        Tractor utilization is unsophisticated, in general being still at
the stage of a direct substitute for the bullock. This is reflected in the
small numbers and limited range of implements in use. Compared with the 1970
tractor population these were: 1/
Percent
Cultivators (tined)               80
Trailers                          40
Earth levelling blades            22
Disc plows                        15
Mould - board plows                13
Disc harrows                      11
Most implements can be obtained of local manufacture.  However, imports, par-
ticularly of the more sophisticated implements (combine seed/fertilizer
drills, planters, combine harvesters, etc.), continue.
Tubewells
6.        Pakistan agriculture is almost totally dependent on irrigation.
The canal system, the world's largest, was developed between 1870 and 1930.
The designed capacity - generally geared to an 80% cropping intensity - is
inadequate to meet the needs of today's much larger population and more
intensive agriculture. Tubewell development has emerged to fill the gap in
areas of sweet ground water.
7.        Tubewell development takes place in both public and private sectors.
The former has a twofold aim; increase in water supplies, and a lowering of
water table in order to reduce drainage and salinity problems. There are now
about 8,000 public tubewells in operation. However, this is far below planned
targets. Private investment in tubewells has therefore assumed major impor-
tance.  Most private tubewells have been installed in Punjab and Sind where
there are estimated to be over 100,000. The annual installation rate is about
11,000.
8.        Wells in Punjab and Sind are installed by private contractors
(using hand percussion equipment) and by Provincial Agricultural Engineering
Departments (using hand or power equipment). Hand percussion equipment is
1/   "Farm Mechanization in West Pakistan", Ministry of Works and Agriculture,
1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
slow (takes more than three weeks for drilling) and not suited for deep
wells. The Provincial Departments do not have the drilling capacity to meet
demand, and farmers have to wait six months to one year to have new wells
installed.
9.        Most of the installed wells are relatively shallow, ca 50m, and
equipped with diesel engine and centrifugal pump. Electric submersible pumps
would be both cheaper to install and operate. However, power distribution
networks are limited and power supplies unreliable, hence the reliance on
diesel engines. Government subsidies cover some of the difference between
diesel and electric installations. (The amounts vary according to areas;
from Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000 in irrigated areas and Rs 8,000 in rainfed areas.)
10.       In all proposed project areas ground water resource data are
adequate.
Land Development
11.       Though data are inadequate it is generally accepted that field
efficiency in the irrigated areas is about 50%. Farm layouts reflect a
gradual development without access to surveys and with little earth moving
capacity. They are therefore better suited to bullock than mechanical
cultivation. The layout of irrigation channels is often inefficient, and
the channels themselves usually unlined, leading to high seepage losses.
For lack of equipment and access to survey services, land levelling is
usually imperfect leading to further inefficiencies in water usage and also
aggravating salinity problems in many areas.
12.       USAID is financing a team of scientists from Colorado State Univer-
sity who are examining water management practices, and methods of improving
these. In addition USAID is financing a small team of advisors who are
training Pakistan staff in fine levelling techniques. Already the advisors
plus some of the early trained staff are providing a limited service to
farmers wishing to fine level their lands.
Project Proposals
13.       The project would finance the development of farms of contract seed
growers. In addition it would finance the development of three 1,000-acre
farms for the Punjab Seed Corporation and one farm for the Sind Seed Corpo-
ration. These farms would produce the bulk of the Corporations' basic seed
requirements. It is considered prudent to have the greater part of the criti-
cal stage of basic seed production in the hands of the Corporations.
Seed Growers' Farms
14.       Project estimates assume a model farm of 100 acres which currently
is 50% mechanized and uses half the discharge of a typical tubewell (1 cu
sec discharge) to supplement canal water supplies. About 1,900 such farms



ANNEX 3
Page 4
would produce certified seed for the Corporations. Approved seed of cotton
would be grown by all cotton growers in a segregated area; there would be
no contractual arrangement with the Corporations and farm development would
not be undertaken on such farms.
Mechanization
15.       The project would finance the purchase of about 475 tractors;  on
the assumption that only one in every four participating farmers would require
a new tractor. 45 HP tractors would be provided; these are adequate for the
work envisaged and are the most popular size, hence spares availability is
satisfactory. These additional tractors would help to increase the mechanical
power available by 50%, from an average of 500 hrs to 750 hrs per farm per
year. The project would also finance a range of implements. Details are
given in Table 1. The implements provided under the project would cover a
broader range than those traditionally used (para 5). The aim would be to im-
prove tractor utilization, and standard and timeliness of cultural operations.
It is assumed that many of the implements would be procured locally. The
appraisal mission visited one local manufacturing company which produces
a range of equipment of good quality.
16.       Nevertheless, in addition to tractors some implements, such as com-
bined seed and fertilizer drills and seed planters, would be imported. Finance
for the purchase of spares would be provided for tractors and imported imple-
ments at the rate of 10% of value in the year of purchase, and 5% per year for
the remainder of the project period. By thus spreading spares purchases
(rather than bulk buying at the time of initial equipment purchase) they could
be tailored more specifically to needs.
Tubewells
17.       The project would finance the drilling and equipping of about 470
tubewells; also on the basis that one in every four participating farmers
would need an additional tubewell. A breakdown of the capital and operating
cost of a tubewell is given at Table 2. The cost estimates assume that
tubewells would be equipped with diesel engines and centrifugal pumps. To-
gether these cost about twice what an equivalent electric submersible pump
would cost. However, electric power is not available in all areas nor is
it always reliable when available. Most farmers therefore install diesel
powered tubewells. As the farm models show (Annex 13), despite its
relatively high cost the diesel powered well is an attractive investment.
18.       Insufficient tubewell drilling capacity could delay the implement-
ation of farm development by seed growers in both Punjab and Sind Provinces.
Provision has therefore been made in the project costs for the purchase of
four drilling rigs (two each for the Punjab and Sind Agricultural Engineering
Departments) to supplement the existing drilling capacity in the two Pro-
vinces.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Land Development
19.       The project would provide finance for the improvement of irrigation
channels and for fine levelling. (Farms requiring major development and
levelling efforts would not be selected). While the benefits of land develop-
ment are indisputable, they do not have the immediate impact of the benefits
to be derived from investment in a tractor or tubewell. Furthermore, being
of a longer term nature, they are riskier. For these reasons farmers less
readily invest in land development than in tractors and tubewells.
20.       This factor underlies project estimates of the size of the land
development component. It is assumed that all farmers obtaining tubewells
under the project would undertake land development on half their acreage.
In addition it is assumed that a further 10% of participating farmers would
improve half their acreage. Together these amount to the improvement of an
estimated 17.5% of the land of participating farmers, or about 33,000 acres.
The estimated costs for land development are given in Table 3.
21.       Agricultural Engineering Departments would provide advisory services
to farmers wishing to undertake land development. The Departments also
have earthmoving equipment for hire at subsidized rates to undertake levelling.
Advice on fine levelling would also be provided by the teams being trained
under the USAID program (para 12). Farmers themselves could carry out fine
levelling, if assisted with survey and planning, using wheeled tractors and
light levellers. Some farmers already undertake such work on a contract
basis and land levellers have been included among the implements to be
financed under the project to expand the availability of this service.
Benefits to Seed Growers
22.       The proposed on-farm investments are complementary.  The increase
in tractor power, allied to suitable implements, would improve the quality
and timeliness of cultural operations. It would permit an increase in crop-
ping intensity and it would also permit partial substitution for increasingly
uneconomic bullock power. (One 45 HP tractor is roughly equivalent to 8
pairs of bullocks. The maintenance cost of a pair of bullocks is given in
Table 4). The tubewells would supplement canal water supplies and the land
development would improve the efficiency of water usage. Together these
investments would permit an increase in cropping intensity and the intensity
of irrigation. (Because of shortage of water many farmers currently practice
suboptimal irrigation).
23.       The overall effect of these developments would be an increase in
cropping intensity of about 15% and yield increases of about 15%. The rate
of return to the on-farm investments - disregarding seed growing - would be
about 50%. Details are given in the farm models in Annex 13.
Corporation Seed Farms
24.       Suitable Government farms currently operated by the Extension
Departments would be handed over to the Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
When the appaisal mission was in the field it was not possible to make a
final choice of farms for the Corporations. However, in Punjab and Sind
there are many farms in Government hands and the appraisal mission saw
sufficient to be convinced that suitable farms could be made available.
25.       Project estimates of the cost of developing Corporation farms are
based on a 1,000-acre model farm. The project would finance development along
the same lines as seed grower's farms, namely tractors and implements, tube-
wells and land development. No provision has been made for other farm
inputs e.g. fertilizer, as additional inputs are not considered essential
for the project. The list of items to be provided and their costs is
given at Table 5.
26.       The full requirements of tractor and implement for the farms would
be provided under the project. It is assumed that when the Extension Depart-
ment hands over the farms it would withdraw existing equipment. This, in
any case, is inadequate and in poor repair.
27.       The level of development of the Government farms seen by the
appraisal mission was low. Provision has therefore been made for the pro-
ject to finance the installation of four tubewells on each farm and for land
development of 75% of this area (750 acres). In addition provision is made
for the construction of houses, for farm managers and superintendents, and
of a limited range of farm buildings.



A&NNEX 3
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Farm Developmena
Farm Machineryr f'or Seed Growers
INVESTNENT COSTS
Unit     Number       Total       Foreign      Foreign
Cost       ol'        Cost        Exchange     Exchange
Item                          Rs       Units       '000 Rs        %          '000 Rs
Tractor - 45 HP -           55,000      470        25,850         80          20,680
Plow - 3 furrow              4,500      230          1,035        50             517
Cultivator                   4,000      35C         1,400         50             700
Disc harrow                  4,000       95            380        50             190
Chisel plow                  2,200       9C            198        50              99
Border disc                  4,200       95            399'       50             200
Planter 1/                   7,500      190          1,425        80           I,1LO
Seed drill 1/               20,000      190         3,800         80           3,0c4o
Fertilizer spreader 1/       5,000       90            450        80             360
Sprayer-tractor mounted      6,ooo       94           564         5o             282
Trailer                     12,000      230         2,760         5O           1,380
Thresher                    17,000       94         1,598         50             79i
Land leveller                5,000      140            700        50             350
Total Investment (by 1880 seed growers)       40,599                     29,737
Average investment per seed grower        21,660
OPERATING COSTS
Tractor:     Assumptions
Initial cost                   Rs 55,000
Estimated life                 10 years
'Work hours per year           1,000
Costs                                 Rs/Year         Rs/hr
Depreciation                           5,500           5.50
Insurance                                250            .25
Repairs and spares                     5,500           5.50
Fuel (1 gal/hr 9 Rs 5.75)              5,750           5.75
Lubricants                             1,250           1.25
Operator                               3,000           3.00
Total                              21,250          21.25
Implements:  Assumptions
Value of machinery
per tractor                 Rs 31,430
Estimated average life         10 years
Total machine hours
per year                    1,000
Costs                                 Rs/Year         Rs/hr
Deoreciati,on                          3,103           3.1
Repairs and spares                     3123            3.14
Total                               6,286          6.23
1/ Assumed imported, others of local manufacture.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Farm Development
Tubewell Costs
Investment V
Unit                     Total
Item                   Unit         Cost         No.         Cost
Rs                      Rs
Drilling - 8"           Ft.            10        200         2,000
Casing                  Ft.            LO         50         2,000
Strainer                Ft.           100        100        10,000
Delivery pipe           Ft.            30         30           900
20 HP Diesel engine    No.         25,000          1        25,000
and centrifugal
pump
Accessories             -            -            -          1,100
Civil works                                                  9 0 0
Cost Per Unit                                        50,000
Operating
Fixed Costs - Per Year                           Rs
Depreciation on well (5%)                      1,195
Depreciation on engine, pump and
fittings (10%)                              2,610
Repairs and spores (10%)                       2,610
Operator's salary - Rs250/month                3,000
TOTAL                                          9,415 
Variable Costs - Per Hour
Diesel - 1 gal per hr 9 Rs5.75
oil                        O. 0
Grease                     0.2,
TOTAL                      6.50
Operating Costs - Per Hour
(Assuming 2,500 hrs. of operation per year)
Fixed cost      Rs3.77
Variable cost    6.50
TOTAL            10.22
1/ It is assumed that one of every four growers will require to invest
in al, additional tubewell.  Thus:
Total number of tubewells required by 1880
seed growers:   1880 ' 4                                470
Total tubewell investment by
seed growers:  Rs 50,000 x 470                Rs 23,500,000
Average tubewell investment
per grower:    Rs 50,000 =- 4                     Rs 12,500



ANNEX 3
Table 3
PAKISTAN
SEED ROJECT
Farm Development
Cost of Land Development 1/
Item                       Unit      Unit Cost       Number       Total Cost
Rs
Main water course           Ft.           6          20,000          120,000
Farm channels               Ft.           3          20,000           60,000
Diversions/checks           No.         150              30            4,500
Culverts                                 -             -               9,000
Fine levelling             acre         200             400          80,000
Contingencies                             -            -              6,50o
Total                                                    200
Development cost per acre:  Rs 280,000 ,400            Rs 700
Average development cost per seed grower:      /
Rs 700 x 17.5 acres '    Rs 12,250
Total investment by 1880 seed growers:    2
Rs 12,250 x 1880 -   Rs 23,030,000
1/  Based on a 400 acre unit - the average area below the main channel
outlet up to which the Irrigation Departments are responsible for
channels. The average development cost per acre (Rs 700) is assumed
to be same for all project participants.
2/ Seed Annex 3, paragraph 20.



ANNEX 3
lable 4
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Farm Development
Cost of Keeping a Pair of Bullocks
Rs
Depreciation 1/                                       600
Green fodder - 1.5: acs @ Rs 800                    1,200
'Wheat bhoosa 2/ - 110 maunds @ Rs 5                  550
Gram - 3.5 maunds @ Rs 40                            1i0
Veterinary expenses                                    80
Repairs to harness                                     50
Handlers wages @ Rs 140 per month                   1,680
Total per annum                               4,300
1/ Assuming 8 year life and Rs 1200 per pair slaughter value
(this may understate the capital value, bullock prices have
risen steeply of late)
2/ Chopped wheat straw.
Source: Agricultural Development Bank



ANNEX 3
Tab] e 5
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Farm Development
Investment on Corporation Seed Farms 1/
Unit     Unit     Total   Total Cost       Foreign      Forei gn
Cost     Units                   Lxcnlrge      Excha;ne
Land                                                                 Rs '000           %           Rs '000
Tubewells 2/                           No      O,,000      16         800           75             600
LAnd development 3/                   Acre        700   3,000       2,100           10             210
Buildings
Houses-Farm Managers (1 per farm)  Sq.ft.          60   2,000         120           15              18
Houses-Superintrndants (4 per farm)  "             60   1,200         720           15             108
Crop/Input Stores (1 per farm)        "            50   3,000        150            1S              22.5
Implement Shed (1 per farm)           "            30   3,000          90           15              13.
Architects Fees - 8% of3
building costis                                 -                   86             e4
Sub-total                                                1,166                          166
Machinery
Tractors - 4S HP 4/                    No      55,000      16         880           80             704
Tractors - 60 HP I/                    n       75,000       8         600           80             480
Combine Harvester I/
(self propelled 12' cut)            "     180,000        4        720            80             576
Plows-reversible m/b j/                "      15,000       16        240            80             192
Plows-disc                             "       4,500        8          36           50              18
Plows-chisel                                   2,200        4           8.8         50               4
Disc harrow                            "       4,000       16          61           50              32
Cultivator-row crop.                   "        5,000      16          80           S0              40
Seed drill (combine) ,/               "      20,000        8        160            80             128
Planter (4 row) /                      "       7,500        8         60            80              48
Sprayer-tractor mounted ,/                    12,000        8         96            80              77
Thresher                               n      17,000        8         136           50              68
Fertilizer spreader 4/                 "        5,000       4          20           80              i6
Border disc                            "       4,200        4          16.8         50               8
Land plane 4/                          "       20,000       4          80           80              6L
Trailer                                "      12,000       16         192           S0              96
Miscellaneous small tools
and equipment                      -                              200            i>0            100
Spares 5/                             --          --        --        700           80             560
Sub-total                                                 ,2 89.6                      3,211
Total Investment Cost                                           8,355.6                       4,187
1/  Assunptions based on four 1,000 acre farms, three in Punjab one in Sind.
2/ For cost breakdown see Annex 3 Table 2.
3/ For 75% of area of farms. For cost breakdown see Annex 3 Table 3.
4/ Imported items.
5/ 10% with purchase of imported items in year 2 plus 5% per year in years 3, L and 5. Spreading spare
purchases would avoid problems which could arise from inaccurate predictions of n eed, were all spare
to be purchased at the time of original equipment purchases.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
1.        Processing is essential to the production of high quality seed.
Drying may be necessary for storage without loss of germination. Cleaning
and grading removes impurities - inert matter and impure seed -- and un-
dersize seeds. Treatment will protect seed against pests and disease in
storage and after sowing. Thus the end product should be an obviously
attractive sample of bold seed which will germinate well to produce a
full, even stand of strong seedlings of the selected variety.
2.        Proc ssing plants are subject to economies of scale and Pakistan
has virtually io manpower trained in the special skills required in the
seed industry. For these reasons the project would develop the minimum
number of plants; three in Punjab and one in Sind.  In Punjab a minimum of
two plants would be required in order to locate a seed cotton facility
in each varietal zone. However, because of the large volume of wheat seed
to be produced in Punjab, it is proposed to develop three plants. The small
loss of scale economies would in this case be more than compensated by
reduced management and transport problems resulting from smaller seed
production areas. Plants would be located as centrally as possible within
the production areas to minimize transport costs.
3.        The responsibilities of the Processing Departments of the Seed
Corporations would commence at ginneries, and at the Corporations' and seed
growers' farms, soon after the crop is harvested and would be completed only
when seed had been delivered to distributors. Thus the processing operations
would involve:
-    taking delivery of seed crops in the field;
-    transport of seed from field/private ginneries (approved
seed cotton) to plant;
-    cleaning and grading of seed;
-    ginning of certified seed cotton and delinting of cotton seed;
-    drying of seed;
-    treating of seed with fungicide/insecticide;
-    packaging for sale;
-    storage under controlled conditions;
-    obtaining certification from Seed Certification Agency; and
-    delivery of seed.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Delivery and Transport
4.        The Processing Department would, at the request of the Production
Department, arrange the transport of seed from farms as soon as possible
after harvest. The seed, which would be bagged, sampled, sealed and marked
before delivery, would be weighed on arrival at the plant. The weight, and,
for crops other than cotton, the result of the NSCA analysis (Annex 5), would
form the basis for payment to the seed grower. The Processing Department
would also arrange the transport of commercial cotton seed from private
ginneries.
5.        Transport of seed to the plant would be entrusted to private
truckers on contract as this activity would be seasonal and it would not
be economical for the Corporations to maintain a fleet of trucks specific-
ally for this purpose. However, each plant would be provided with two 10-
ton trucks for internal transport and emergencies. There are established
and reliable transport contractors operating in all Provinces. Transport
rates are about Rs 10 per ton for the average haul anticipated -25 miles.
Processing Plants
6.        The throughput of the processing plants to be operated by the
Seed Corporations would be as follows:
Annual Throughput of Major Crops (tons)/1
Plant                     Wheat   Rice   Maize   Cotton  Others         Total
Punjab - Sahiwal                17,100  1,410  2,620        -       150     21,,280
Khanewal              17,100    -        -     12,000    150       29,250
DG Khan               17,100    -        -     16,000    150       33,250
Sind   - Khairpur                9,400  1,100    -        8,500    300      19,300
TOTAL                60,700  2,510   2,620   36,500    750    103,080
Plant design and location would be dictated by the two most important crops
-- wheat and cotton.  The planned wheat throughput governs the non-cotton
design aspects of all plants and is a factor in their location. Despite the
many different operations required for cotton seed, joint wheat/cotton plants
would result in major economies over separate operations. The same staff
could put through both crops because their seasons. are complementary. For
the same reason storage space, the major building cost, could be saved.
Several operations -- drying, treating, bagging, weighing -- could use the
same equipment.
7.        For wheat, plant throughput is geared to a 100 day processing period,
two shift working and 75% efficiencyl/. For cotton the processing period
would be 120 days, and three shift working at 75% efficiency is assumed.
1/   In the Punjab plants however, during peak periods, three shift working
would be required for about four weeks.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(Processing, storage and delivery periods are shown at Chart 1). The as-
sumption of two shift working most of the time for wheat and related crops
leaves a safety margin of spare capacity. Cereal processing would cover
several crops and a number of varieties of each crop. Each time processing
changes from one variety to another the plant must stop for cleaning.  As
the project develops and the seed industry diversifies such changes will be
more frequent. In contrast cotton seed processing in a plant involves only
one variety and can proceed almost continuously, hence the assumption of
three shift working from the outset.
8.        It is proposed that the cereal plants operate on one floor level.
Major operations and seed flows are shown at Chart 2. Hourly capacities, by
major operation, are at Table 1. Costings for movement and storage are
based on handling in containers of 2 tons capacity. This system has two
advantages over silo storage and mechanical conveyors. It is slightly
cheap-r (despite the high timber costs and the need for regular replace-
ment - a five-year life has been assumed), and permits the identity of each
farmer's seed to be retained without materially complicating handling logis-
tics. Because this method of handling is atypical, it would be re-examined
in detail by the design consultants to confirm the cost advantage and the
need for, and practicality of, maintaining the identity of seed lots.
9.        Cotton plants would also operate on one floor level.  Each plant
would have a small ginning unit sufficient to handle basic and certified
seed. The ginning of these critical generations must be in Corporation
hands to ensure that no mixing of seed takes place. Roller ginning is pro-
posed to minimize mechanical seed damage.
10.       From the ginning unit onwards all seed, -  basic and certified from
the Corporation ginning unit, and approved seed from private ginneries -
would go through the same processes. Major operations and seed flows are
shown at Chart 3.
11.       Considerable attention was paid to checking different methods that
could be used for delinting cotton seed. Acid, flame, and mechanical delint-
ing methods were considered, and several factors have weighed in favor of
mechanical delinting despite the acknowledged superior seed quality obtain-
able from the other methods. Both acid and flame delinting involve sophis-
ticated techniques and constant managerial supervision, and mistakes would
be costly as whole batches of seed could be destroyed. In addition, acid
delinting entails some risks for the environment. (The commonest, wet acid
plants, are no longer licensed in the USA). Mechanical delinting on the
other hand is a simpler technique carrying smaller risks, already familiar
in Paki^tan, and would produce a quality of seed commensurate with present
husbandry standards. Although acid delinting has the advantage of ensuring
the destruction of pink boll-worm, the same result can be obtained by fumi-
gating the seed after mechanical delinting. Operating costs of mechanical
delinting are considerably lower than of acid delinting. For these reasons
mechanical delinting with fumigation has been visualized for the bulk of
the project output. However, in final plant design, the consultants would
consider the merits of pilot flame and/or acid operations to pave the way



ANNEX 4
Page 4
for upgrading seed quality over time. Change to more sophisticated process-
ing would not render proposed investments obsolete, both flame and acid
delinting are additional to mechanical.
12.       The Seed Processing Specialist to be employed by the Corporation
should study the desirability and the feasibility of installing a small line
of acid delinting for treating all basic and possibly certified cotton seed.
This would enable experience to be gained in such methods of processing for
use in future cotton development projects which would perhaps also aim at
more sophisticated cultural practices.
13.       Each Corporation's processed seed would be distinctively and at-
tractively packaged and labelled. Much of the seed of each crop would be
packed in one maund bags, for ease of handling and transport. However, for
crops with low seed rates - rice and cotton - an adequate proportion of the
output would be packed in smaller units, related to seed rate, to serve the
need of the smaller farmer. Packaged seed would be stacked on pallets and
handled by fork-lift truck.
14.       The warehouse capacity to be constructed would provide storage for
about 75% of the wheat seed output. It is proposed that some of this capacity
be constructed as regional depots, to facilitate distribution, since present
storage is inadequate. The proposed warehouse capacity would cater for
about half of the cotton output. This is considered adequate because cotton
seed is currently traded more widely than other seeds, hence it can be ex-
pected that a considerable proportion of the cotton output would be absorbed
in the existing distribution network.
15.       Details of the processing facilities to be developed under the
project, and their cost, are at Tables 2 through 6.
Organization and Management
16.       The Processing Director of each Seed Corporation would be responsible
for all processing and storage activities in the Province. Each factory com-
plex would be placed under a full-time Plant Manager who would be assisted by
an Administrative Assistant, a Stores Assistant, and, for each shift, a Plant
Superintendent. Staff requirements for a typical processing complex are
shown in Table 7. Expatriate specialist services would be engaged to assist
the Corporations in the design of the factories; preparing technical specific-
ations for machinery and equipment procurement; installation of the machinery;
and running the plants during the initial periods. Local engineering serv-
ices would be engaged to supervise civil works contracts (Annex 7).
OperatJng Costs
17.       Operating costs have been calculated separately for cereals and
cotton, based on models for a 15,000 ton wheat plant and a 16,000 ton cotton



ANNEX 4
Page 5
plant. In the cotton model, only costs incremental to those incurred in
wheat processing are included. For project wide financial and economic
projections (Annexes 13 and 14), the costs per ton of throughput derived
from this approach are used for all plants. It is appreciated that the
smaller plants would suffer some diseconomies of scale. However, these are
ignored since the costs affected - fixed costs plus salaries and wages -
amount to only 5% of total operating costs. Details of the operating costs
are given at Tables 8 and 9, for cereals and cotton respectively. The
derivation of these costs is elaborated in the Appendix to this Annex.
Revenues
18.       The sales from representative plants, including non-seed by-pro-
ducts, are shown at Tables 10 and 11, for cereals and cotton respectively.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Operating Costs Assumptions
Throughput
1.        Plant operating costs have been worked out separately for cereals
and cotton. The throughput for the cereals plant is taken at 17,100 tons
of wheat, 1,410 tons of rice and 2,620 tons of maize. The cotton plant
throughput is taken as 16,000 tons of approved seed, 970 tons of certi-
fied seed, and 25 tons of basic seed.
Variable Costs
Cereal Seed
2.        Screening Loss:  Of every 100 tons arriving at the factory, 5 tons
would be lost as waste at precleaning and 15 tons would be discarded during
screening. It is assumed that screenings would be sold at half the market
value of grain. In order to obtain 17,100 tons of processed seed of wheat,
1,410 tons of rice, and 2,620 tons of maize, the Corporation would have to
procure 21,375 tons of wheat, 1,760 tons of rice and 3,275 tons of maize
from the seed grower.
3.        The seed growers would be paid in two installments.  They would
first get the grain price on the totality of their sale, and after analysis,
they would receive the premium on the part that is of seed quality. With
a premium of 20% and an average of 80% of the crop being of seed quality,
the farmer would eventually receive a bonus on the totality of his sale
equal to 16% above the grain price. The price paid to seed growers for
seed delivered to the Corporations would be:



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 2
Market Price         Premium Price
(for grain)          (for seed)
--------Rs per Maund-----
Wheat                        45.00                54.00
Rice - Basmati 1/            58.00                69.60
- Coarse               26.00                 31.20
Maize                       45.00                 54.00
Cotton
4.        Approved Cotton Seed.   Of the tonnage of fuzzy seed bought from
ginneries, some 6% of linters would be recovered and some 14% of the seed
would be rejected through screening and grading. Both linters and culled
seed would be sold. To get 100 tons of processed seed, the plant would
have to buy 125 tons of seed from the linneries, which would correspond to
156 tons of seed produced by the farmer or 230 tons of seed cotton. 2/ For
an output of 16,000 tons the plant would therefore buy 20,000 tons from
ginneries. The price paid to private ginneries for approved cotton seed
is taken at Rs 48 per maund which is the price for top quality cotton seed.
(As an average price this implies a small premium).
5.        Seed Cotton for Basic and Certified Seed.  For basic and certi-
fied seed the plant would purchase seed cotton direct from Corporation
farms and registered growers respectively. It is assumed, for purposes of
financial projections, that basic seed cotton from Corporation farms would
be procured at the same price as paid to registered growers for certified
seed i.e. Rs 87 per maund. As with approved seed 20% of the seed cotton
would be discarded because of doubtful germination, and 6% linters and
14% culled seed would be removed. Thus to finish with 970 tons of certi-
fied seed and 25 tons of basic seed, 2340 tons of seed cotton should be
procured.
Haulage
6.        Cereal.  Average haulage distance from farms to plant would be about
25 miles. Costs would average: transport Rs 0.35/md; loading and unloading
Rs 0.15/md; and octroi Rs 0.10/md - a total of Rs 0.60/md or Rs 16.32/ton.
7.        Cotton Seed.  Average haulage distance from ginneries to plant
would be 50 miles. As cotton seed density is half that of cereals, trans-
port cost/mile would be double; thus transport cost would be Rs 1.40/md.
Loading and unloading would cost Rs 0.25/md and octroi Rs 0.10/md. Total
haulage cost would be Rs 1.75/md or Rs 47.60/ton.
1/   For the purpose of the financial models, it has been assumed that Basmati
would make up 1/5 of the rice, and coarse rice would make up the remainder.
2/   Cotton from the first and last picks would be discarded because of poor
germination.



ANXR 4
Appendix
Page 3
8.        Seed Cotton.  In the case of seed cotton for basic and certified
seed, average haulage distance from farms to plant would be 25 miles with
a transport cost per mile approximately double that of cotton seed (density
of seed cotton is much less than cotton seed). Transport would thus aver-
age Rs 1.35/md. Loading and unloading would be Rs 0.30/md and octroi
Rs 0.10/md. Total haulage cost would be Rs 1.75/md or Rs 47.60/ton.
Plant
9.        Seed Dressing.  For costing purposes one typical dressing has been
taken for all crops, a single purpose liquid costing Rs 100 per imperial
gallon (160 fluid ounces). Application rates would vary with different
crops but the average taken is that for wheat, 1 fluid ounce per bushel or
1.31 fluid ounces per maund. Seed dressing cost would thus be Rs 0.818/md
or Rs 22.27/ton.
10.       Bags and Labels for Seed.  Bags of various materials are available
in Pakistan: paper, cotton or polypropylene; they cost about the same.
For cereals, this cost is estimated at Rs 3.5 per one maund bag. Cotton
seed would take a larger bag for one maund, costing Rs 5. Labels would cost
Rs 0.30 per maund bag. Packing costs would thus be: Rs 3.80/md for cereals
and Rs 5.30/md for cotton. (Note: A proportion of the packaging would be
in quantities to sow one acre. This would slightly increase the cost, but
is omitted from these calculations for simplicity).
11.       Hessian and Baling Hoops for Lint and Linters.  In the cotton pro-
cess, lint and linters would be baled. The production of the plant would
be:
Lint:  1/3 x 2,340 tons                         =   780 tons
Linters:  .06 x (20,000 + 1,500 tons)           = 1,294 tons
Total        2,074 tons or
11,834 bales
Each bale would need Rs 10 of hessian and Rs 20 for baling hoops.
12.       Contract Sacks.  Heavy jute bags holding 1 maund cotton seed or
2-1/2 maunds cereals would be used for farm-to-plant transport.  It is
assumed these would be cleaned and re-used 7 times. Sacks are provided
for o-Lne-third the throughput of cereals and one-half the throughput of
cotton (because cotton seed would be stored in the sacks). At an assumed
cost f Rs 14 per sack unit costs would be:



ANNEX 4
ARpendixc
Page 4
Cereals              Rs 0.27/md or 7.25/ton (of input)
Cotton seed          Rs 1.0/md  or 27.2/ton (of input)
Electricity
13.       Basic Requirements. --  A plant processing 21,130 tons of cereal
seed (maize and rice in addition to wheat), and 16,000 tons of cotton seed,
in a year, would consume 290 kw (full load) for 3,713 hours spread over 10
months. Electricity costs would be:
Fixed charge at Rs 19.8/kw/month x 290 kw x 10 month =  57,420
Energy charge Rs 0.13 per unit:  0.13 x 290 x 3,713  = 139,980
197,400
Add 10% for offices, etc.                                   19,740
Total Rs 217,140
Unit Cost: Rs 0.22/md or Rs 5.84/ton
Additional Requirements for Cotton Plant
14.      The cotton plant would, in addition, have 13 gins and a baling
press consuming some 45 kw for 2,160 hours spread over 4 months. The
additional electricity cost would be:
Rs
Fixed charge at Rs 19.8/kw/month x 451kw x 4 months    =  3,564
Energy charge Rs 0.13 x 45 x 2,160                         = 12,636
Total             16,200
Fuel
15.      Furnace oil for dryers costs Rs 500/ton.  1 ton fuel evaporates
6 tons water. It is assumed that the moisture content would have to be
reduced by 10% for all rice, 6% for all maize, 6% for one quarter of the
wheat throughput and 6% for half of the cotton seed throughput. Accord-
ingly costs are:
Cereals: Rs 0.074/md or Rs 2/ton.
Cotton:   Rs 0.092/md or Rs 2.5/ton.
1/   Excluding cotton ginning and baling.



ANNEX 4
Appendix
Page 5
Fixed Costs
Corporation Overheads
16.       The overhead costs of the Corporations would be apportioned to
plants according to throughput. In this example 20% of the overhead costs
of the Punjab Corporation has been allocated to each of the cereal and
cotton models. (Of the three Punjab plants two are wheat/cotton, one
primarily wheat).
Salaries and Wages
17.       Table 8 gives the labor cost for a typical cereal/cotton plant in
full production at Year 5. For the purpose of financial projections, these
costs have been divided equally between cereals and cotton. Costs in the
earlier years are interpolated by reference to (a) tonnage; (b) the learning
curve; (c) minimum managerial strength irrespective of tonnage.
Maintenance and Repairs
18.       Assumptions used are:  2.5% of capital cost of buildings; 5% of
capital cost of machinery and 10% of capital cost of vehicles. Maintenance
and repair costs would therefore be:
Buildings       Machinery   Vehicles   Total
----Rs '000----
Cereal plant            195           632            39       866
Cotton plant             56           803            -        859
Vehicle Running Costs
19.      An annual mileage of 12,000 miles for cars and 4-wheel vehicles
and 20,000 miles for trucks has been assumed.  The. assumed cost, of Rs 0.40
per mile for a car, Rs 0.60 for a 4-wheel drive vehicle and Rs 0.50 per
mile for the trucks, is essentially made up of the cost of gasoline, and
excludes maintenance, repairs and depreciation (taken into account in the
renewal of investment). The total cost would be Rs 32,000 pa and is divided
equally between cereals and cotton for financial projections.
Insurance
20.       Taken as .05% of capital investment in buildings, plant and
vehicles: Rs 104,000 for cereals and, Rs 91,000 for cotton.



ANNEX 4
Taole 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
1/
Processing Plant Capacities by Major Operation
Operation                          Khairpur   Sahiwal    Khanewal    DG Khan
 ------------- ton/hr ----------- - - ------
Cereals
Reception/pre-
cleaning                            25        25           25          25
Drying 2/                         2.5/7.5   2.5/7.5      2.5/7.5     2.5/7.5
Fine cleaning/
grading                              8        12           12          12
Treating, bagging and               20        20           20          20
weighing 3/
Cotton
Ginning bY                            *5      -              .75        1.4
Seed cleaning                        8        -            12          12
De-linting                           8        -            10          12
Grading                              6        -            12          12
1 Operational capacities do not closely reflect planned throughputs because
of indivisibility of equipment.
2/  Two figures refer to paddy/wheat - the more critical governs choice of capacity.
3/ Used also for cotton.
4/ For certified seed only.



ANN1I 4
Table 2
PAKISTAN
ITD PR0jECT
Seed Processing
Investment Costa - Sereal Processing Ecuipmentcad anidld o.
(22  000 ton capacity)
unit Cost      Number    Total Cost    Foreign        Foreign          Life
as  o000                   RS '000      Etchange    Exchange       Expectancy
S___  8   Rs _000         Years
IMP0RTE MACHNERY AND EJIFM.T
Reception:
Weigh zridge                                170              1          170          100          170           20
Intake hopper                                25              2           50          100           50           20
Elevator                                     28              1           28          100           2S           20
Precleaning:
Separator                                    77              1           77          100           77           20
DryiDng:
Complete station                            600              1          600          100          600           20
Fine Cleaning:
Box turner                                   34              1           31          100           41           20
Elevator                                     23              3           69          100           69           20
Fine cleaning mchire  /                     218              3          611          100          654           20
Indented cylinders 31                        93              6          55d          100          558           20
Cyclones for cleaning machines               38              2           76          100           76           20
Treatmnt and Ba;gging:
9b7 turnear                                  34              1           34          100           31           20
Elevator                                     23              1           23          100           23           20
Seed treater                                 63              1           63          100           63           10
Cross bagging weigher                        S3              1           53          100            .3          10
Sewtng machines                              12              2           8b          100           84           10
General:
Aspirtion system and
miscellaneous (30%)                      770              1          770          100          770           20
Fork lift trucks                            100              3          300          100          300
Portable scales                                              4           20          100           20            S
Control panel                               200              1          200          100          200           20
Workshop, tools and equipment                84              1           81           80           67
Air conditioning, room units                  5             16           0o          1oo           30           10
Transformer substation                      300              1          300           80          240           20
Laboratory equipment                        177              1          177          100          177             5
7rolleys, bag cleaning equipment             .30             1           30           60           18            5
Va.Lum  .leaner                               5              I           20          100           20
Spares (5%)                                 230              1          230           95          219           20
Sub-total FOB                                              4,781                     ,,681
lacking freight, insurance
(20% of F.E.)                                                    938           100          938
Sub-total CIF                                              5,722                     5,622
Custom duty (20% of F.E.)                                             1,125
Assembly and installation
(17.A% of FOB price)                                                 837           S0          k18
Sub-total                                                  7.684k                    6.040
LOCAL EQIP.INT
F,urniture and fixtures                                                  10           20            2           20
Fire fighting (static lrerants)                             20           20           20            Is          20
Wooden boxes for seed handling             *6dV          1,300        3,26i             5         163             5
Wooden pallets                             .10           2,000          200             5          10             S
Sub-total                                                                              17.
UILOTNGS AND CC*S?MCTTW4
Plant building, units sq. ft.              .100         13,000r       1,000           15          150           20
Workshop                                   .065          1,500           98           15           15            20
Offices                                    .100          1,000          100           15           15            20
Laboratory                                 .100          1,000          100           15           15           20
Werehouse         "    .                   .06S         70,000       1,5O            15          682           20
Fuel storage tank                           .0               1           50           25           12           20
Ws11 to cormoand                                                        100             5            S           20
Hard stsnding and roadways                 .011          5,000           70             5           4           20
Architect fees 8% of building cost
(urnits sq. ft.)                                                J2L                                      20
Sob-totl                                                   o,.92                      290
TOTAL                                                             17,670                     7,117
1/ Some additionaL equipment would be required for .ai.e. See Table l.
2/  For Sind -where only a 13,00  ton capact-y will bi  roewirad. the euarn i f-r Line  wleonlW will corssst
of:  2 elevators. 2 fine cleaning macnines  and - indented cylinders.  The co.t of the aspiration system vill a-la
be lese and the requirement for wsrehouses and boxes will be s=aller. The total cost therefore comes down to
Rs 13,728 thousand, of which Rs 6,040 thousand ts for foreign exchange.
Includes allowance for sieves and cylinders



ANNEX a
Table 3
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Investment Costs - Vehicles and Housing
Number  Total      Foreign   Foreign   Life
Unit Cost    of    Cost        5xchange  achange  Expectancy
Rs '000   uris_  Rs '000         %       Rs '000  Years
VECLES
4-wheel drive                   50         1         50       50          25          5
Car                             50         1         50       50          25          5
Truck                          127         2        25h                   88          5
Sub-total                                    354                   138
HOUSES
House of general manager       120         1        120       15          18         20
(2,000 square feet)
Houses of administration         96        2        192       15          29         20
and transportation managers
(1,600 square feet each)
Houses of superintendents        72        2        14       15          22         20
(1,200 square feet each)
Sub-total                                    456                    69
TOTAL                                                  810                  207



Table 4
PAKISTAN
mvz PROJECT
Seed Processing
Investment Costs - Additional for Maize
(3,000 ton capacity)
Unit Cost  Number  Total Cost  Foreign   Foreign        Life
Rs '000    of       Rs '000   Exchange  ExcChange  Expectancy
Units                   %       Rs '000   Years
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Maize sheller                        100        1         100        100        100         10
Conveyors and accessories             40        1          40        100         40         20
Spares 5%                                                   6         95          6
Sub-total FOB                                  146                    146
Packing, freight, insirance
20% of F.E.                                         29       100          29
Sub-total CIF                                  177                    177
Custom duty, 20% of CIF                                    36                    36
Assembly and installation,
17.5% of FOB                                        26         50         13
Sub-total                                      239                    226
B3JILINGS AND OTHER LOCAL ITEMS
Barn for maize storage and
drying, units sq. ft.           .032   16,000          512         10         51         20
Maize cribs                           1       330         330         20         66         10
Sub-total                                      842                   117
TOTAL                                                   13403



ANNEX
Tabie 5
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Invesneat Costs - Cotton Processing  Equipmnt and Buildings  I/
____-____----____-------(all costa in  Ra 'O0Cs)------------------------                        Foreign
llsd.t                                                                                                     nKehange
Cost                                                                      Sinnzl  . 0. Ean  Sird  Total    Component
Cost  r of    TItal         larber of      Total          Mber of       Total
Units       Cost           Ulnits        Coat            Units        Cost
IdAChNIERY AN  3pJIli'l'T
Opener/cleaner                             380            1         380               1          380              1           380                      100
Double roller gins 3/                       72            7         504              13          936              5           360                      100
Conveying syst  for seed cotton,
LInt and certified seed                -           -             8s0            -          1,000          _               6s0                       100
Baling presa-double action type          1,130            1       1,130               1        1,130              1        1,130                       100
Condensor (pre-baler)                      280            1         280               1          280              1           280                      10o
Four tray seed cleaner                     183            3          549               3         549              2           366                       100
Delinters: - first cut                     102            5          910              7          714              4           408                      100
- second cut                   102           10       1,020              14        1,428              7           7141                     100
Gummer                                      94            2         188               2          188              1            94                      100
Dczen files for gummer
(supply for 2 seasons)                     .018   1,000           48          52,000           48           500            24                       100
Lint cleaners: - for first cut             108            2         a6                2          216              1           108                      100
- for second cut           130            3         390               3          390              2           260                      100
Lint sbale sbaker                           14            1          14               1           14              1            14                      100
Iete beMcr                             . 43               1          43               1           43              1            43                      100
Shaker separator                            66            2         132               2          132              2           132                      100
Pnewastic   conveying sqrsts:a
- for seed cleaner                     -           -              53            -              62          -               40                       100
-for delinters                             -                   ~595           -             700           -             455                       100
- for ante beater                                 4- 43                         -              51          -               33                       100
mechajical conveyors and hopp ers
- for seed cleaners                    -           -             103                          3 121        -               79                       100
- for delinters                        -           -             269            -             317           -             206                       100
- for shaker separator                       -                    89            _             100          _               65
Ptudgation equipment                        42            2          84               2           84              1            42                      100
Spares                                -            -             160            -             160           -             160                       100
Sub-total FOB                                           7,646                       9,043                        6,013
Packing, freight, insurance (20%)                                   529                        1J809                       1  209
Sub-total CIF                                           9,175                      10,852                        7,252         27,27Y        luX
Custom duty (20% of CIF)                                          1,835                        2,170                        1,450          5,455
Assm.bly and installation (17.5% of FOE)                                                      1l5_6                         1 058          1 982        5°
3UB-TOTAL                                                                               W 14bo9:0                              36,716         30
uIILO;IM iUD GOSThCTION IV
Opener, ginning and baling buildixg           .065   3,500           227         4,200           273         3,150            205            705        1S
Mechanical delinting building 5/              .o65   2,250           146         3,150           205         1,650            107            458         15
Open sided ahed for seed cotton               .032   4,000          128          8,000           256         3,000             96            480        1S
arenouse for processed and
unprocesaed cotton seed 6/                 .o65    -                         20,000        1.300           -                           1  00         19
SUB-TOTAL                                                 501                       2,034                          408          2,943        15
TOTAL                                                  184                          16,6ML                       10o 168        19             75
1/  Required tn addition to tho-e for cereals.  gquirP,t and buildirNs have a life ep- . nc   of 2(  'afrm.
2/  All the motors and starters are included with the equipment.  No provision -as made for testing and bagging since the equipment of the
cereal plant will be used.
3/  Number of units taken from Table 6.
4/  No extra space has been provided for fumigating and treating the seeds since enough space will be available in the cereal plant building.
5/  150 square feet per machine.
6/  In thanewal and Sind, the warehouse provided for the cereal plants should have enough capacity to store the cotton seeds.



ANNEX 4
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Roller Gin Requirements
Khanewal      DG Khan       Sind
Input of seed cotton                         1140          2340          832
(in tons)
Output of lint (in tons)                      380           780          277
Numnber of days of operation of                760         1560          555
double roller gins /
Number of double roller gins required v         7            13           5
1/  On the base that each double roller gin has a daily capacity of i tons
of lint.
2J Assuming 120 days of operation per double roller gin.



ANNEX a
Table 7
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Cereal and Cotton Plant
Staffing Requirements and Costsa/
Unit       Total
Annnal      Annual
Number    Salary      Salar
-   -(Rs  '000)- - - - -
General Manager                       1        20.0        20.0
Adninistration Manager                1        12.0        12.0
Head Analyst (for laboratory)         1        10.0        10.0
Transportation Manager                1        10.0        10.0
Plant Superintendents                 2         9.0        18.0
Analyst                               1         6.o         6.o
Laboratory Assistant                  1         2.0         2.0
Foremen                              10         6.5        65.0
Drivers                   -4                    2.0         8.0
Mechanics                             3         3.0         9.0
Plant Operators                      12         2.0        24.0
Typists/Clerks                        5         3.0        15.0
Storekeepers                          5         3.0        15.0
Laborers - permanent                 10         1.5        15.0
Laborers - casual                    12         0.8         9.6
Cleaners                              6         1.5         9.0
Guards                                2         1.5         3.0
250.6
Pensions, insurance and other allowances, 4I%             100.2
Total Salaries and Wage Costs                             350.8
1/ Based on the larger wheat/cotton plants.



ANNEX 4
Table8
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Operating Costs - Cereals -/
(Rs '000)
Foreign
Year      Year       Year      Year 4 and       Exchange
1         2          3        Following          %
VARIABLE COSTS
Raw material                    --      12,266    24,532        36,797             50
Haulage in                      --         143       286           431             50
Dressing                        --         157       31h4          470             60
Bag, labels and packaging       --         728 i   1,456         2,183             20
Contract sacks                  --          64       128           192             50
Electricity                     --          41         82          123             25
Fuel                            --          14         28           42             50
Sub-total Variable Costs    --      13,413    26,826         40,238
FIXED COSTS
Corporation overheads           580        620       660           700             25
Salaries and wages 3/            55         95       135           175             __
Maintenance and repairs         --         866       866           966             50
Vehicle running costs           --          16         16           16             50
Auditor fees                    --           6          6            6 -
Insuranae                                  b104     104           104
Sub-total Fixed Costs       635      1,707      1,787        =1,867
TOTAL                    635     15,120    28,613         42,105
1/  See Annex 4, Appendix   for the method of computation of these costs.
2/ The phasing of the Corporationoverheads has been worked out on the assumption
that, from year 1 onwards, staff costs and 1/2 of the other costs were fixed
and the others built up with the production of the plant (see Annex 10, Table 2).
For the purpose of these models, the total overhead costs of the Punjab
Corporation were divided by 5 (3 cereals and 2 cotton units).
3/ The phasing of the wages has been worked out by assuming that foremen and lower
workers will not work in year 1, work 1/3 of the year in year 2, and 2/3 in
year 3. The total wages (Table 7, Annex 4) were equally divided between cereals
and cotton



ANNEX]
Table 9
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Operating Costs - CottonV
Rs '000)
Year 4    Foreign
Year       Year         Year         and      Exchange
1          2            3       Following  Component
VARIABLE COSTS
Raw material                    1         8,888      17,776       26,666         -
Haulage in                      -           321          642          963      50
Dressing                        -           126          252          378      60
Bag, label and packaging        -           935       1,870         2,805      20
Contract sacks                  _           181          362          544      50
Electricity                     -            38           76          113      25
Fuel                            _            13           26           40      50
Subtotal                      -       10,502       21,004       31,509
xtID COSTS
Corporation overhejti /        580          620          660          700      25
Salaries and wages'             55           95          135          175       -
Maintenance and repairs         -           859          859          859      50
Vehicle running costs           -            16           16           16      50
Auditor fees                    -             6            6            6        -
Insurance                       -            91           91           91        -
Subtotal                    635        1,687        1,767        1,847
TOTAL             635       12,189       22,771       33,356
1/  See Annex 4, Appendix for the method of computation of these costs.
2/ The phasing of the Corporation overheads has been worked out on the assump-
tion that, from year 1 onwards, staff costs and 1/2 of the other costs were
fixed and the other built-up with the production of the plant (see Annex 10,
Table 2). For the purpose of these models, the total overhead costs of the
Punjab Corporation were divided by 5 (3 cereals and 2 cotton units).
3/ The phasing of the wages has been worked out by assuming that foreman and
lower workers will not work in year 1, work 25% of the year in year 2, 5c%
in year 3 and 75% in year 4 and thereafter. The total wages (Table 7,
Annex 4) were equally divided between cereals and cotton.



Table 10
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Revenue Stream - Cereals
(Rs '000)
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
2       3        I4      5        6
Onward
SALES OF SCREENINGS -
Wheat                            791   1,582   2,374   2,374   2,374
Rice                              65     130      194     194      194
Maize                           121      242     363      363      363
977   1,954   2,931   2,931   2,931
SALES OF SEE 
Wheat                         8,124  18,659  31,591  35,195  38,801
Rice Basmati                     170     381      631     692      751
Rice Coarse                     317      733   1,249   1,398   1,547
Maize                         1,243   2,855   4,839   5,392   5,945
9,854  22,628  38,310  42,677  47,044
SUBSIDIES -6,532   8,734    8,734  4,367                           -
TOTAL                  17,363  33,316  49,975  49,975  49,975
1/  See paragraph 2, Appendix  , Annex 4.
Sales of screenings from year 4 on consist of 3,206 tons of wheat,
262 tons of rice and 491 tons of maize sold at Rs 22.5 per maund.
2/  It is assumed that 3p of the plant throughput is lost every year because
of deterioration, mishandling or misplacement. When the plant comes on
stream, in year 4, the output is then; wheat: 16,587 tons, rice: 1,368 tons,
maize: 2,522 tons.
3/ For assumrptions on prices and subsidies, see Annex 12, table 2.



A10EX 4
Table 11
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Revenue Stream - Cottonl!
(Rs '000)
Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year        Year 6
Sale of lintl/                         1,626      3,254       4,880       4,880      4,880
Sale of linters  /                       176        351         527         527        527
Sale of culled seed 4                    780      1,561       2,341       2,341      2,341
Sale of processed seed -               7,396     16,333      26,810      29,122     31,433
Subsidies on processed seed            3,079      4,623       4,623       2,311       -
TOTAL                          13,057      26,122      39,181     39,181      39,181
1/ The plant comes on stream in year 4. It is assumed that in year 2 its production
will be 1/3 of the final one and 2/3 in year 3.
2/  From year 4 on, the plant will sell some 780 tons of lint of a price ex-ginnery
of Rs?3O per maund.
3/  From year 4 on, the plant will sell 1,294 tons of linters(6,0 of an 4nput of
20,000 + 1,560 - 21,560 tons of cotton seed) at a price of Rs 15 per maund.
h/  From year 4 on, the plant will sell 2,152 tcns of seed (14% of an input of 2D,000
+ 1,560 = 21,560 tons of cotton seed is culled;   70% of the culled seed can be
sold ). The unit price ex-factory is Rs 40 per maund.
/ It is assumed that certified, and approved seed will be sold at the same price.
From year 4 on, the output of the plant is about 17,000 tons or 462,264 maunds of
processed seed.   The processed seed  are sold  Rs 48 per maund in year 2,  Rs 53
in year 3, Rs 58 in year 4,  Rs 63 in year 5 and  Rs 68 from year 6 on.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
HARVESTING, PROCESSING, STORAGE AND DELIVERY PERIODS
MARCH    APRIL      MAY      JUNE      JULY    AUGUST    SEPT.       OCT.      NOV.      DEC.     JAN.      FEB.
. ( '/(/Sow/                                                                               Ha.s    J _____ I ..
COTTON                 a                                                                            - |   _   .--Process_
WHEAT                     Process
.            .    . .   .   ............ Store  _7 7
SIND                                   E    g S
4Harvest
RICE                                                                             -   Process -_.,_____
Wew~~~~~~~1flllUlm                 Store                                   -_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Strel
1 |                .  EHarvestB                                          Harvest 
OTHER                I                  -           ProcSim                                          Process          1
)   l                   = - Store                            1 1        -r          p:''' I~StoreStore:  -
COTTON   <      Proes                                                                                                   P l    c  |
store~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr
t   'I                 1                     1    1   -1IDeliver
PUNJAS                                                                               II|  |   |   |  er// SowI? arvest
MAIZE       _          Se__|Process_                                                                             -
Store                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Store
(                                         __________l                 l         |    M   HarvestB
OVER                                                                                                  Process        Store p
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Cereal Flow Diagram
Fine Cleaning                                             Bagging
Reception   mwmso_Pre-cleaning   mmmufo.                 Drying      momoo-and                   omolo-          Treating                     Wigin
Grading                                                   Wihn
WAREHOUSE
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
NB   All handling and storage, pre-bagging and weighing, is in 2 ton capacity boxes (120 x 160 x 140 cm),                                                         IP 
thereafter on pallets.                                                                                                 World Bar. -9776






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Processing
Cotton Flow Diagram
Baling                                                                Linter Cleaning
O~~ening/  ~~Ginning                                 Sed                             st Cut                       2nmo-  d Cut                   Gradigf Weghin
Cleaning                                     ~~~~~~~           ~     ~~Cening  Delinting                  Delinting                                                    Treatingj.-   -
WARE HOUSE
± eception
NB All storage is in bag. Pneumatic cunveya,)ce is used for seed cotton, liat. lit.ers and fuzzy seed.
w~~'~   Seed cotton  ~~Delinted seed is conveyed mnechanically- .
SFuzzy seed
aii maui Lont/linters
m  Delirted seed
weld 13.nk-9776






ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Quality Control
Introduction
1.        Government's efforts in expanding the availability of agricultural
inputs such as farm machinery, water, fertilizer and pesticide, do not result
in the anticipated crop yields because much of the seed used by the farmers
is poor in genetic and physical quality. The "green revolution" fueled by
seed of imported high-yielding varieties has lost momentum because farmers
cannot renew their seed from high-quality stocks. Everywhere the appraisal
mission went during their field visits they encountered stories of yield
declines - of 20% to 25% in wheat yields-because of seed quality.
2.        In the renewed efforts to establish a modern and viable seed industry
in Pakistan, it is impossible to overemphasize the need for an effective system
of quality control. Prior to 1962, seed production was the responsibility of
the Department of Agriculture.  Between 1962 and 1972, the Agricultural Devel-
opment Corporation (ADC) played a major role in the efforts to establish the
industry. Since 1972, When ADC was liquidated, new organizations in the
Provinces have taken over seed activities from ADC (Annex 1). Past efforts
have failed to establish a reputable seed industry. Seed produced and dis-
tributed by all these institutions has been of low quality - both physically
and in genetic purity - thus creating an entrenched suspicion in the farming
community as to the merit of purchasing seed produced by Government institu-
tions. The proposed project could be made a success only by regaining lost
confidence, and that could be done only by making quality control the corner-
stone of its development.
Present Situation
3.        For a seed industry to operate effectively, certain institutional
arrangements are essential. There must be a policy-making body, a mechanism
for the registration (hence release) of new varieties, an agency equipped to
undertake certification and, finally, there must be legislation to back the
foregoing.
4.        There is no formally recognized forum in Pakistan for the determi-
nation of seed policy. It emerges ad hoc from the Federal and Provincial
Gover=nents. In theory, variety release is handled by Provincial Variety
Release Committees. Practice is more haphazard, with some unsuitable
material "escaping" from Research Institutes (Annex 6). In any event, the
scrutiny given to new material is inadequate. A further weakness of the
present release method is its decentralization. The same material can,
and does, emerge from different Provinces under different names.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Certification is the responsibility of the Seed Quality Control
Organization (SQCO). This is a Federal body, a remnant of the ADC, which
is attached to the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) as a temporary ex-
pedient. The SQCO has its headquarters at Lahore. It operates nine small
seed testing laboratories (including one at the Lahore headquarters) and a
field inspection staff of nine Seed Certification Officers, one at each
laboratory. It has one car and four 4-wheel drive vehicles. Much of the
laboratory equipment, and the vehicles, require replacement.
6.        The SQCO is ill-equipped and understaffed for the work expected
of it, the greater part of which relates to the seed programs of ADC's suc-
cessor organizations, of which the Punjab Agricultural and Supplies Corpora-
tion is by far the biggest. In 1973/74, the SQCO was supposed to have in-
spected about 170,000 acres of crops and analyzed samples from about 65,000
tons of seed. With its present resources, these are impossible tasks. The
work cannot be done properly and the resulting "certified" seed is that in
name only. Lack of an adequate quality control organization is a major con-
tributor to the unsatisfactory state of the seed industry.
7.        However, the present staff and facilities would be invaluable to
bridge the gap in the early project period until improvements could be made.
In particular, the staff are well trained, six of the Certification Officers
have received overseas training, and they would form a sound nucleus on which
to build the larger National Seed Certification Agency needed to achieve proj-
ect objectives.
Prolect Prooals
Legislation
8.        The starting point for effective quality control of seed production
and distribution must be suitable legislation. This would be enacted at
Federal level to ensure uniform procedures and standards throughout the
country.
Uniform Standards
9.        Safeguards for maintaining nationally uniform standards would be
provided in the legislation by establishing two national institutions - a
National Seed Council (NSC), and a National Seed Certification Agency (NSCA) -
in which all four Provinces would be adequately represented.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Seed Councils
10.       Under the Seed Act, a Provincial Seed Council would be set up in
each of the Provinces. Each Council would have representation from:
Provincial Government,
Department of Agriculture
Research Institutions
Provincial Seed Corporation,
seed distributors,
seed growers, and
seed users.
The main functions of the Councils would be to advise Provincial Governments
on Provincial policy, to liaise with the NSC and to nominate Provincial rep-
resentatives to the NSC.
11.       The main functions of the NSC would be to:
advise Federal and Provincial Governments on seed industry
policy of national significance;
make, and change as necessary, the Seed Rules;
notify species;
register varieties; and
liaise with Research Institutes, the University and Colleges of
Agriculture.
Interests represented on the NSC would include:
Governments - Federal and Provincial;
seed growers,
seed trade,
seed users,
ARC,
PCCC,
NSCA, and
Registration Agency.
Variety Release
12.       Establishment of a modern seed industry demands an effective variety
release mechanism, since without it certification is impossible. A Registra-
tion Agency would be established as an executive arm of the NSC.  The Agency
would be located at the National Research Center (NRC) to be established near
Islamabad. About 10 acres of land would be provided for pre-release trials.
Since not all crops can be grown at Islamabad, some trials would also be
located at Provincial Research Institutes.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
13.       The project would finance the investment and initial operating costs
of the Agency. Major investment items would be buildings, including a con-
trolled environment store for seed samples of released material, farm machinery
for trials, and laboratory equipment. In addition, finance would be provided
for six months overseas training for the Director of the Agency. Details of
investment and operating costs are at Table 1.
National Seed Certification Azency (NSCA)
14.       An independent Seed Certification Agency would be established at
national level. NSCA established under the Seed Act would operate in accord-
ance with procedures and standards laid down in the Seed Rules (which in
turn would accord with international practice. The NSCA would absorb the
present staff and resources of the SQCO. Incremental investment and operating
costs to expand the NSCA would be provided by the project. In addition the
project would finance two specialists, one in field inspection the other in
seed analysis, to help organize the expansion of the NSCA, develop its facil-
ities and train staff. Details of investment and operating costs are given
at Tables 2 and 3 and of technical assistance and training in Annex 7. By
the end of the project period, it should be possible to finance the NSCA by
a levy on the seed industry. This could probably be collected on the basis
of the amounts of seed certified at the premises of Seed Corporations.
15.       The NSCA would have its headquarters at the National Research Center
together with the Registration Agency. It is proposed that the two share a
common building and field equipment. The NSCA would require about 10 acres
of land at the NRC site for pre and post-control trials. Pre-control trials
would be conducted on all pre-basic seed, and post-control trials on random
samples of basic and certified seed.
16.       In Punjab and Sind, the field activity of the NSCA would center
on the four processing plants to be established. Offices and a laboratory
would be constructed for the NSCA alongside each plant. These units would
be under a Senior Certification Officer who would have a team of six Cer-
tification Officers, for field inspection, and two Seed Analysts. Certifi-
cation Officers would each be provided with a vehicle to give them the mobil-
ity essential to their task.
17.       It may not be possible to stop activity at all points now operated
by the SQCO outside the project area. In this event, work would continue,
but in accordance with the new techniques and standards to be determined
by the NSCA. In particular, it is not proposed that the seed testing lab-
oratory in Baluchistan be closed. The Certification Officer posted there
would receive special training to enable him to deal with vegetable seed,
a need expected to emerge from the work of the pilot project. Two other
Certification Officers would receive special training in potato seed cer-
tification. They would be posted one to Baluchistan and one to Punjab.
18.       In addition to quality control responsibilities the NSCA would have
statutory responsibility for the analysis of samples of raw seed to determine



ANNEX 5
Page 5
the basis of payment to seed growers. Field Inspectors would sample the crop
at the farm. The sample would be divided into three portions - each placed
in sealed plastic bags - one for immediate analysis, one for reference and
one for the farmer. Analysis would be undertaken in the NSCA laboratories
by the Seed Analysts.
14.       Field operations of the NSCA would be supervised by the Chief Seed
Analyst and Chief Inspector who would travel extensively from their base at
headquarters. Should need arise, field staff would be moved temporarily to
other areas to deal with peaks in the work load.



PAIaS TANh
SEED PYOJECT
Quality Control
CoBts of Registrmtion Agency
Total     Fcardgn      Ford gn
Unit Cost       YTr I            Tear 2          Year 3          Year 4          Toear           tost       lxzbange     Nxobange
unit        an         NO.      Rn     No.      Ha     No.      RS      No.     Rs      No.      Re         RB          J             Rs
Officea                        '00 sq.ft.    10,000           -           4   40,000      4   40,0OO           -               -             80,000       15           12,000
Laboratory                    '00 sq.ft.    10,000            -           1   10,000      2   20,000           -               -             30,000        15           4,500
Controlled environsent store     sq.ft.         200           -         100   20,000    200    0,°000          -               -             60,000        30          18,000
Office equipmnt and
furniture                      set         6,ooo           -               -           6   36,000           -               -             36,ooo       20            7,200
laboratory eqtipmzt                -           -              -               -               25,000           -               -             25,000       85           21,250
Field equipment aid tools 1/       -           -              -                -              150,000          -               -            150,000        70         105,000
Car                               Now        50,000                       1   50,0DO          -                -               -             50,000        50          25,000
Cooling/dehuuidifying
equipment                       _-                                         -                3D,000          -               -             30,000       85           25,500
Architecta feee - 8% of
building cost                   -           -              -                5,600            8.ooo          -               -             13.6o0         5             680
Total Investment C<stB                                                 125,600          349,000          -               -            474,600                   219,130
OPERLTIN3
Ulario
Director                     MoLn year    18,000       .5   9,000      1   18,0COO      1   18,000      1   18,000      1   18,000        d1,000        -
Technical Ausiutants            "4,500                     -           5   22,500       5   22,500      5   22,500      5  22,500         90,00 -D
Secreta y                                  3,600           -           1    3,600      1    3,600       1    3,600      1    3,600        1,400         -             -
Clerks                                     2,800           -           1    2,800      1    2,800       1    2,Boo      1    2,800        11,200        -             -
Driver                                     2,200           -           1    2,200      1    2,200       1    2,200      1    2,200         8,800        -             -
Choakidare and peonB                       1,500           -           3    4.500       3    4.500      3                                 140500  3   14,500  J000  -  -
9,000          53,600          53,600          53,600          53,600        223,400
Ot)wr
'fice eappliee                  -            -              -               15,000          15,000          15,000          15,000         60,OOQ0      20           12,000
Labgratory supplies             -           -              -                10,000          10,000          10,000          10,000         40,006       20           8,000
Field operationa a/           Acre         1,500           -                -          15   22,500     15 * 22,500     15   22,500        67,500        20          13,500
Vehicle running
(12,000 ailes 0 Rs 1.00)    No.        12,000           -           1    6,000      1   12,000       1   12,000      1   12,000        42,000        50          21,000
Travel arid  ubsistene      Office        12,000           -           1    6,ooo       1   12,000      1  12,000       1  12,000         42,000        20           8,400
Staff allownce( 40% of
salaries)                   -            -               3,600          21,440           21.440          21,1440         21,440        89.360        -             --
3.600          58,440          92,9140         92,940          92,940        340,860                   62,900
Total Operating Costs                                     12,600          112,040         146,540         146,540         146,540        564,260                   62,900
I/ Half coat of small tractor, implents and toola.  (See Table 2 )
i/ Includea allowance for trials concducted at Research Institutes on crops wdhich cannot be grown at Islamabad.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Quality Control
Investment Costs of tin National Seed Certification Agency
Unit                                                                        Total        Foreign          Foreign
Unit      Cost        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4                 Cost         ExchanRe        Erchange
Rs       No.   Rs      No.   Rs      No.   Rs      No.   Rs                 Rs              %               Rs
Headouarters
Offices                          '00 so ft    10,000           -         10  100,000  10  100,000        -                   200,000        15             30,000
Seed testing laboratories            "         10,000          -          6   60,000   6   60,000        -                   120,000        15             18,000
Store for reference samples          "         10,000          -          5   50,000   5   50,000        -                   100,000        15             15,000
rarage/implement shed                           3000                      7   21,000   8   24,000        -                    45,000        15              6,750
Perimeter fence                     aile       I ,000          -          7   10,000       -             -                    10,000        20              2,000
Office equipment & furniture        set         6,000          -             -         13   78,000       -                    78,000        20             15,600
Laboratory equipment                             -                           -             180,000       -                   180,000        85            153,000
Field  equipment & tool,-/                                     -             -             150,000       -                   150,000        70            105,000
4 Wheel drtve vehicles              No         50,000       1   50,000       -          1   50,000       -                   100,000        ia             50,000
Cars                                No         50,000       2  100,000       -          1   50,000       -                   150,000        50             75,000
Architects fees - 8% of
building coat                      -          -             -               18,500        14,700       -                   37,200          5              1,860
Sub-total                                                 150,000       259,500       760,700       -                1,170,200                       472,210
Field
Offices                          '00  so ft   10,000           -         30  300,000  30  300,000        -                   600,00         15             90,000
Seed testing laboratories             '        10,000          -        12  120,000  12  120,000         -                   240,000        15             36,000
Store for reference smples           "         10,000          -         10  100,000  10  100,000   -  -                     200,000        15             30,000
Office equipment & furniture        set         6,000          -             -         44  264,000       -                   264,000        20             52,800
Laboratory equipmeat                set        90,000          -             -          4  360,000       -                   360,000        85            306,000
4 Wheel drive vehicles              No         50,000          -          4  200,000   4  200,000   4  200,000               600,0U0        50            300,000
Architects fees                      -           -             -              41,600        41,600                            83,200          5             4,160
Sub-total                                                 -             761,600    1,385,600        200,000          2,347,200                       818,960
Total investeent CcstE                                         150,000    1,021,100    L4Z               200,000           3,1,400                         91,170
I/ All building unit Costs include allowance of 5% for site preparation and 15% for connection of services.
2/ Half ceot of gall troctor, implements and tools, balance coated to Registration Agency.



ANNEX
Table 3
PAKISTANx
SEED P?JCT
Quality Control
Omeratini Costs of Certification Asency
Unit                                                                    Total       Foreign        Foreign
unit      Cost      Year 1       Year 2      Year 3       Y"r 4       Year 5       Cost    2xchang.   2xch-nge
Re      No.   Rs    No.   Rs    No.   Rs    No.   Rs    No.   Rs         Rs           2.             R
Head4uarters
Salaries
Director                          Kan-year   27,600      1 27,600   1  27,600   1  27,600   1  21,600   1  27,600   138,000
Chief Seed Analyst-                  '       18.000    .s            I            1           1   9,000   1  18,000    27.000
Senior Seed Analyst2.                        12,000                  1  12,000   1  12,000 .5   6,000   -               30,000
Chief Field Ipectorl/                "       18,000    .S            1            1           1   9,000   1  18,000    27,000
Senior Field Inspector-                      12,000                  1  12.000   1  12,000  .s   6,000   -              30,000
Poset-control Trials Officr          "       12,000                               1  12.000   1  12,000   1  12,000    36,000
Pathologist                                  12.000                               1  12,000   1  12,000   1  12,000    36,000         -             -
Seed Analyst                                  9,000                  2  18,000   4  36,000   4  36,000   4  36,000   126.000
Technical Assistants (trials)        '        4,500                               2   9,000   2   9,000   2   9,000    27,000
Laboratory Aasistants                         2.200                  1   2.200   2   4.400   2   4.400   2   4,400    15,400
Secretaries                                   3,600      2   7,200   2   7,200   3  10,800   3  10,800   3  10,800    46,800          -             -
Clerks                                        2,800      1  2,800   2   5.600   3   8,400   3   8,400   3   8,400    33,600
Drivers                              "        2.200      3  6,600   3   6,600   5  11,000   5  11.000   5  11,000    46,200           -             -
Cho.kidars and peons                          1,500    i3  4,500   3   4,500  10  15.000  10  15.oao  10  15;000    54o000            -             -
S.b-total                                        48,700       95.700     170,200      176,200     182,200   673,000        -
Other
Office supplies                                -            15,000      25,000)      40,000      40,000       40,000   160,000        20          32,000
Laboratory supplies                  -         -              -         10,000       20,000      20,000       20,000    70,000        20          14,000
Field operations                   acre       1,500           -           -     10  15,000  10  15.000  10  15,000    45,000         20            9,000
Vehicle running (12,000 miles
@C(  1. 00)                        No        12,000     3  36,000   3  36,000   5  60,000   5  60,000   5  60,000   252,000          50         126,000
Travel and subsistence             Officer   12,000      3  36,000   3  36,000   5 60,000   5  60,000   5  60,000   252.000           20          50,400
Staff allowances (40. of salaries)                          19,500      38.300      68.100       70,500       72.900   269.300       -              -
Sub-total                                       106,500    .145,300      263,100     265,500      267,900 1.048,300                   231,400
Field
Salaries
Senior Certification Officers      Man-year 12,000                   4  48,ooo   4  48,000   4  48,000   4  4B,000   192,000          -
Certification Officers                        9,000           _      3 72,oCu  16 144,000  24 216,000  24 216,200   046,000           -             -
Seed Analysts                                 9,000           -       i 36,000   8  72,000   8  72,000   8  72,000   252,000          -             -
Secrecaries                          '        3,600                 4-    -          14,400   4  14,400   4  14,400    43,200         -             -
Laboratory Assistants                         2,200           -      -    -       4   8,800   4   8,800   4   8,800    26,400         -             -
Clerks                                        2,800           -      4  11,200   8  22,400  12  33,600  12  33,600   100,800          -
Drivers                                       2,200           -      4   8,800   8  17,600  12  26,400  12  26,400    79,200          -             -
Ch-wkidars and pesos                          1,500           -      8  12,000  12  18,000  12  18.000  12  18.COO    66uoo0          -
Sub-total                                                   188,000      345,200     437,200      437,200 1,407,600                       -
Other
Office supplies                     No       10.000           -            o 40 o,o   4  40°000   4  40,000   4  40,000   160,000     la          32,000
Laboratory supplies                 No       10,000           _         40,000   4  40,000   4  40,000   4  40,000   160,000          20          32,000
Field operational/                   _         -              -           -          12,000      12,000       12,000    36,000        20           7,200
Vehicle running (12,000 miles
'a Rs (.00)                        No       12.000           -      4  48,0o0    8  96,000  12 144,000  12 144,0O0   432,000         s0         216,000
Staff allovances (40% of salaries)                            _         75,200     138,080      174.880     174,880   563.040        -              -
Sub-total                            -                       203,200     326,080       10,880     410,880 1,351,040                   287,200
TOTAL OFXLATING COST                                155,200      632,200   1,104,580   1,289,780   1,298,180 4,479,940                     518,600
1/  First three  an-years costed under Technical Assistance, - Annex 7.
2/ Position dropped after withdrawal of Technical Assistanca personnel. incumbents presumed promoted.
31 For post-control trials conducted at Research Institutes on crops which cannot be grown at Ialamabad.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
1.        Project involvement in the field of research would be limited.
There is available sufficient varietal material of the major crops (wheat,
cotton, rice, maize) on which to develop the seed industry. The priority,
task must be to reap the benefits of research done, by disseminating the
output of plant breeders. Also two major aid programs are under way to
improve the general research effort. USAID is supporting a US$20 M program
to improve Federal and Provincial research capabilities while UNDP is
supporting the development of the Pakistan Central Cotton Committee's (PCCC)
Research Institute at Multan.
2.        The project would finance the purchase of equipment to improve pre-
basic seed production at Research Institutes. In addition the project would
finance two pilot projects to determine the feasibility, and best methods,
of vegetable and potato seed production. Prospects for both look excellent
but data are lacking. The need is for field scale testing of production and
processing techniques and farmer capabilities, rather than pure research
work.
Background
3.        Agricultural research is the responsibility of the Provinces and
is carried out at their Research Institutes (those of concern to the project
are listed in the Appendix). The research capability of Federal agencies
is limited, with the exception of PCCC's Cotton Research Institute at Multan,
discussed below (para 6). National planning for, and coordination of,
agricultural research are tasks of the Agricultural Research Council (ARC).
A limited amount of research is carried out by the University of Agriculture
and Colleges of Agriculture.
4.        In 1973 a joint Pakistan-American team reviewed agricultural
research in Pakistan. t/ Major observations were:
1/  Agricultural Research in Pakistan, Report of the Second Joint Pakistan-
American Team. Islambad, March 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(i) agricultural research generally in Pakistan has not been
improved significantly in the past five years;
(ii)  there is need for clarification of the role and responsibility
of the Central Government with respect to agriculture and
particularly with respect to agricultural research;
(iii) there is need for increased support in terms of funds,
scientific manpower, equipment, etc.;
(iv) there is opportunity for improvement of research through
better consolidation and use of existing resources; and
(v) there is need for a change in attitudes on the part of
institutions and individuals concerned with research if
closer cooperation and effective coordination are to be
achieved."
5.        Based mainly on this review USAID is supporting a major program,
costing US$20 M over 5 years - 74/79 - to improve Pakistants research
capability. A major objective of the program will be to develop ARC's
capabilities. The program's funds will be channeled through ARC. ARC will
be staffed to provide the kinds of expertise individual Institutes could
not justify. A National Research Center will be developed (near Islamabad)
at which ARC staff will undertake research in fields not covered by Pro-
vincial programs. The program will also improve research facilities at
Provincial Institutes, the University and Colleges of Agriculture. It also
includes a large man-power training component. Under the program a major
weakness of the past, inadequate operating funds, will be remedied. Prior-
ity will be given to researching problems of major food and export crops
with emphasis on adaptation of importable technology.
6.        Cotton research is carried out at Provincial Institutes and at
PCCC's Cotton Research Institute at Multan. The PCCC, an autonomous body
located in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, is the forum for national
coordination of cotton research and is the channel for Federal funds to
support cotton research in the Provinces. UNDP is supporting the work of
the Cotton Research Institute. When the appraisal mission was in the field
a one year project was being implemented. Its objective was to prepare a
large scale UNDP/FAO project to improve cotton research. The larger pro-
ject's major components would be provision of equipment, technical assist-
ance and manpower training.
7.        In addition to the USAID and UNDP programs, mention must be made
of the valuable aid given to cereal research by the international centers.
The Ford Foundation is currently funding the work of three CIMMYT scientists.
One is advisor to the coordinated wheat research program, centered mainly
at Lyallpur, Tandojam and Tarnab. The other two are advisors to the maize
and millet program based mainly at Pir Sabak and Yousufwalla. Rice research
benefits greatly from the supply of breeding material and technology from
IRRI.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        Given the magnitude of present and planned assistance to Pakistan's
agricultural research effort there is neither the need, nor the absorptive
capacity, for a major research component in this project. However, two
related weaknesses in the present research effort, common to all major crops,
are of concern to the project. In the absence of a reliable seed industry,
plant breeders have attempted to spread the benefits of their work by
multiplication and direct distribution of seed to farmers.  The motivation
and obJective are understandable; plant breeding per se is pointless, it
must be backed by seed multiplication and distribution. However, the
results are unfortunate.
9.        Plant breeders have attempted to produce quantities of pre-basic
seed beyond their capabilities - to compensate for lack of a subsequent
multiplication system. The quality of this, most critical, generation has
suffered. To augment supplies, seed from the randomized plots of variety
trials has been released as pre-basic seed; this is unsatisfactory. The
appraisal mission interviewed one first class farmer, who had a technical
background, and who had obtained wheat seed from a Research Institute; he
claimed to have had to rogue out 10% off-types from the crop which he was
growing for seed.
10.       Because of the development of the practice of direct seed distri-
bution by Research Institutes it has become commonplace for farmers to retain
seed from trials grown on their farms. These are often micro-plot variety
trials containing material in the last stages of testing before official
release. Thus farmers can obtain and multiply seed of varieties which prove
unsatisfactory and are never officially released. Particular problems are
known to have occurred with cotton in this respect. Much greater attention
is needed to the method of pre-basic seed production, its handling, the
control of seed from off-station trials and seed release from Research
Institutes.
11.       Minor vegetable and potato research programs are conducted in
NWFP, Punjab and Sind. They are of indifferent quality. The research
suffers from the major problem of the farmers, lack of good quality seed.
Potato trials seen by the appraisal mission were heavily infected by virus
disease; vegetable trials seen at Quetta were clearly grown from hetero-
genous seed derived from inadequately isolated plots. Plant breeding has
made little headway and major reliance is placed on imported varietal
material.
12.       Reliance will continue to be placed on imported varietal material.
This is acceptable. A plant breeding breakthrough can wait. The priority
problems are to determine the feasibility and best methods of vegetable and
potato seed production, hence the proposed pilot projects.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Project Proposals
Pre-basic Seed Production
13.       Pre-basic seed of impeccable quality would be essential to the
success of the proposed project, hence of the development of Pakistan's seed
industry. Pre-basic seed would be produced at the Research Institutes under
the control of the plant breeders responsible for the various crops. The
quantities of pre-basic seed required by the project are given in Annex 2,
Table 2. The seed would be produced in areas set aside for the purpose, it
would not be taken from the yield of trials. The seed could be grown from
a bulk of seed established in the immediate pre-release trials or by annual
ear to row multiplication. If the former, the bulk could be stored in the
controlled environment stores of the Provincial Seed Corporations.
14.       Pre-basic seed must be produced two years ahead of the certified
seed crop for which it will give rise - or three years including pre-control
testing.  Immediate action is, therefore, necessary to improve pre-basic seed
production in readiness for the project's first certified crop.
15.       The Institutes would be required to produce about 150Z of antici-
pated requirements one year in advance. 1/ The seed would be stored in the
controlled environment stores of the Corporations. A sample of the seed
would be grown in a pre-control trial by NSCA. Only seed of satisfactory
quality would be used to produce basic seed, hence the need to grow 150%
of seed to allow for rejections. A 50% margin is considered adequate
since for most varieties there could be inter-Provincial cooperation to
make up short-falls. The margin would also safeguard against physical
calamity resulting in loss of crop. The need to assure a reliable supply
of quality pre-basic seed cannot be overemphasized.
16.       In order to produce a quality product and safeguard the future of
the seed industry, the Research Institutes should confine their seed produc-
tion activities to meeting the needs of the Seed Corporations. Seed produc-
tion for distribution to farmers should cease. In addition control should
be maintained over the yield of trials grown on farmers' fields. Farmers
should not be allowed to retain these for seed.
17.       Pre-basic seed must not only be grown with care, it must be handled
with care. The Research Institutes now lack equipment to handle pre-basic
seed adequately. The project would, therefore, finance a range of laboratory
scale seed processing equipment for the Institutes. This is detailed at
Table 1.
1/  To minimize the work burden on plant breeders, where the acreage of
certified seed to be grown would be large, as for wheat in Punjab,
the Corporation would produce two generations of basic seed.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Vegetable Seed Pilot Project
18.       Baluchistan has areas well suited to the production of seed of the
temperate varieties of vegetables grown in Pakistan. The project would
finance the development of a 70 acre farm and small vegetable seed process-
ing plant in the vicinity of Quetta. These would aim to establish appropriate
methods of seed production and processing and their technical and cost para-
meters.  Market information would also be gained.  The objective would be to
lay the foundations for the re-vitalization 1/ of the vegetable seed industry
in Baluchistan based on a commercially viable processing plant and contract
seed growers. Varietal material for multiplication would be imported. The
project would not finance plant breeding research. Pilot project output
and its relationship to the national vegetable acreage is shown at Table 2.
19.       Land for the farm and plant would be made available by the Govern-
ment.  About 70 acres would be required to allow for a cultivable 50 acres,
plus buildings, etc. A suitable site has not yet been finalized. This would
be done in consultation with IDA.
20.       Details of investment costs, Rs 1 M, are given in Table 3.
Operating costs are detailed in Table 4. Project costs would include the
first three years operating costs, Rs 0.37 M, after which they would be
covered by revenues (Table 5). In addition the technical assistance component
of the project would cover the costs of the Director of the pilot project,
of a vegetable seed processing specialist and of engineering services to
supervise development works.
21.       The Project Director would be a specialist in vegetable seed pro-
duction. He would be employed for the full project period. The processing
specialist would visit the project intermittently, to plan the processing
plant and then to run it and train staff in its operation.
22.       Project activity would be limited initially to a narrow range of
crops to reduce management problems. Suggested crops and an outline cropping
pattern are given in Table 7. Care would have to be taken to choose only
species of which simple varieties suitable for multiplication were available.
In the past, attempts have been made to multiply seed of European origin only
to discover that it was of hybrid breeding and therefore useless for the
purpose. In the early stages of development there should be no question of
attempting to produce hybrid vegetable seed. The Project Director would
design and conduct trials, in collaboration with the Agricultural Research
Institute at Quetta, to determine the most suitable varieties for propaga-
tion. Quality control would initially be a matter for project staff. Howev-
er, a Certification Officer of the Seed Certification Agency would be trained
to hand- vegetable seed in preparation for the time that fully commercial
1/ Many years ago the industry was well established and Baluchistan exported
seeds mainly to India. The industry declined after partition.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
operations were launched. Towards the end of the project period, providing
results on the pilot farm had been satisfactory, an attempt would be made
to expand seed production through contract growing.
23.       The project would operate initially as a unit within the Provincial
Ministry of Agriculture, with the Project Director responsible to the Direc-
tor of Agriculture. Later, if the technical and commercial feasibility of
the venture were established, it would be handed over to the Baluchistan
Development Authority for expansion. Development of the project farm would
be carried out by the Agricultural Engineering Department. The limited
building program could be undertaken by the Ministry of Works or local
contractors.
Potato Seed Pilot Projects
24.       About 50,000 acres of potatoes are grown in Pakistan.  Most, about
40,000 acres, are grown in the plains as spring and autumn crops. The bal-
ance are grown as a sumier crop in the hills, mainly of NWFP. Poor seed
quality drastically reduces yields below the potential of present varietal
material and husbandry standards. The main problem is virus diseases,
chiefly leaf roll.
25.       Limited amounts of good seed are imported, usually from Europe.
However, these are small relative to total needs (in the range 1-52) and the
bulk of seed used is degenerate material from successive generations exposed
to virus infection. Because storage is lacking there is a 'cycle' of potato
seed. Seed is taken from the spring plains crop for the autumn crop, from
the autumn crop to the summer hills crop and then back to the spring crop
to complete the cycle. Poor storage compounds the seed degeneration caused
by virus diseases.
26.       Imported seed is used for the spring plains crop.  Unfortunately
this is the worst season for aphids, hence spread of virus diseases. In the
absence of adequate insect control imported seed is thus subject to immediate
heavy infection.
27.       In theory Pakistan has the ecological zones to establish seed potato
production on lines similar to the United Kingdom, with seed produced in the
hills, in aphid free areas, and supplied to the plains for the commercial
crop. The pilot project would set out to test four approaches to potato
seed production.
28.       Program  1 would examine the feasibility of reducing reliance on
imported seed by repeated multiplication of seed in the high hills (7,000-
8,000 ft). This would be a on a trial plot basis only. Successive genera-
tions of seed would be grown in trials in the middle hills, (around 5,000 ft)
and plains, to check for degeneration.
29.       Program 2 would examine on a field scale the feasibility of multi-
plying imported seed, first on the high hills, then in the middle hills to
produce seed for commercial crop in the plains. A feature of this program



ANNEX 6
Page 7
would be to grow an early crop in the middle hills to supply seed for the
plains autumn crop. The normal hill crop is harvested too late to supply
the autumn crop. However, by planting early, in March/April, and lifting
in June/July it should be possible to supply seed for the autumn crop and
thus reduce the need for seed storage. A small portion of the autumn crop
grown under this program could be tested for its suitability for carryover,
in cold store, for the following autumn. Being third generation seed it
might not be suitable, hence the proposed trial on a small scale only.
30.       Program 3 would attempt to establish, on a controlled basis, the
multiplication pattern already practiced to some extent. Imported seed would
be grown in a plains spring crop with good insect control. This crop would
supply seed for the following autumn and spring crops. Most of the seed
would be used for the autumn crop which, when lifted, would be placed in
cold store to supply seed for the following autumn.
31.       Program 4 would combine parts of programs 2 and 3.- Imported seed
would be multiplied first in the middle hills then in the autumn plains crop
to be cold stored for the commercial crop in the following autumn. The pro-
gram would test an alternative, that might be necessary, if it proved Im-
possible to induce an adequate nuiber of the very small farmers in the high
hills areas, to produce seed under controlled conditions. Details of these
programs, with seed flow diagrams, are given in Table 7.
32.       Programs 2, 3 and 4 would be operated on a field scale using con-
tract growers who would be paid a 25% premium for seed. Performance would
be closely monitored to ascertain yield levels for different seed generations
and sources, and to obtain yield and cost data. Market information would
also be obtained. For the purposes of project estimates it has been assumed
that seed produced under the project would sell at Rs 100 per maund. This is
2-1/2 times the price of ware potatoes but considerably below the cost of
imported seed for which there is strong demand.
33.       The project would finance the import of seed and the provision of
physical facilities and equipment. The major investment would be a cold
store and grading shed, with a 1200 ton capacity. This would be located near
Sialkot in Punjab. A smaller store (conventional not cold) and grading shed
would be built in the middle hill areas in NWFP (near to Madyan) and in
Baluchistan (near to Avetta). Details of investment and operating costs are
given at Tables 8, 9 and 10. Project costs would include the first three
years of operating costs plus the initial purchase of seed from farmers, after
which the project would be self-financing. Project costs for the potato
pilot project would be about Rs 10.5 million.
34.       The projects would operate in two sections within the Departments
of Agriculture of Baluchistan and Punjab. However, to ensure the coordination
essential to success, and to provide expertise now lacking in Pakistan, an
overall Project Director would be provided under Technical Assistance. He
would be a potato specialist. (Qualifications and job description are given



ANNEX 6
Page 8
in Annex 7.) He vould be assisted by an Assistant Project Director in each
area who vould be responsible for day to day management. The Assistant
Director stationed in NWFP would cover both middle and high hills from his
middle hill base. Two Certification Officers of the Certification Agency
would be trained in seed potato certification and would be responsible for
this activity.
35.       Later in the project period, if warranted by results, an attempt
would be made to form farmer associations to take over the operation of the
stores and organization of production.



ANNEX 6
Appendix
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Research Institutes
Institute                                          Functi on
Fedexal Government                 National Research Center (to be developed)
(Agricultural Research           Provincial Research Institutes.  Undertake
Council)                      research in fields not adequately covered
by Provinces eg. dry land farming.
NWFP      Tarnab                   Nain station responsible for all crops.
Pir Sabak                Maize, sorghum and millet sub-station.
Pmjab    Iallpur                   Main station responsible for all crops.
Kala Shan Kaku           Rice sub-station.
Sialkot                  Potato sub-station.
Yousufwalla              Maize, sorghum and millet sub-station.
Multan                   Cotton Institute (operated by PCCC).
Sind      Tandojam                 Main station responsible for all crops
(except rice).
Dokri                    Rice Institute.
Baluchistan
Quetta                   Vegetables.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Eqmipment for Research Institutes Prodmcing Pre-Basic Seed i/
Item            Unit Cost  No.  Total Cost  Foreign    Foreign
Rs                Rs        Exchange   Exchange
%          Rs
Single ear thresher 2/    12,000    18       216,000       85       183,600
Trial plot planter 37    41k,000     9       369,000       85       313,650
Trial plot combine 3/   168,000      9     1,512,000       85     1,285,200
Laboratory clipper T/     27,500     6       165,000       85       140,250
Laboratory air
screen cleaner 4/      65,000     6       390,000       85       331,500
Laboratory indentel
cylinder 4/            35,000     6       210,000       85       178,500
Laboratory gravity
separator 4i           34,000     6       204,000       85       173,400
Concrete drying
floor 5/               10,000     1        10,000       15         1,500
Laboratory gins 6/        40,000     6       240,000       85       204,000
Laboratory openers        10,000     3        30,000       85        25,500
Total                                   3,316,000              2,837,100
1/  In NWdFp, Tarnab and Pir Sabak; in Panjab, Lyallp, Kala Shah Kuku
and PCCC's Maltan Station; in Sind, Tandojam and Dokri.
2/ Four each at Tarnab, Lyallpur and Tandojam, two at Pir Sabak, Kala Shah Kaku
and Dokri.
3/ Two each at Tarnab, Lyallpur and TandoJam, one at Pir Sabak, Kala Shah Kaku
and Dokri.
hi One each, except IMultan.
5/ Kala  Shah Kaku only.
6/ Two gins and one opener for each of Lyallpur, Miltan and Tandojam.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
PAKES TAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Pilot Project Vegetable Seed in National Context
Project,/   Seed         Area Sown        National
Output -    Rates       Project Seed        Area
Crop      Mds.        Acr/Md       Acres             Acres
Cabbage    25          80           2,000            4.,900
Carrot     25           5              125           7,160
Cauli-
flower   25          80           2iOOO            6,,460
Cucumber   25          27            -675           20,150
Peas      100           0.8             80           8,600
Radish     15          13              585           5,450
Spinach   45            4             180            7,4oo
Turnip     35          27              945          24,600
6.59o 20 2/
L/ At fill production
2/  Project Seed will cover 8% of the area of the crops involved.



AXR  6
TabLe 3
SB1D ?MJZCT
Research and Pilot Pro4ecta
Inyestint Costs of Vegetable Seed Project
Foreign       Fcr t 2gn
0V.t    Unit oat        Total Cost      Exchange     3hxcange
NO.   Rs           %            Re
Irrization
")ubowell 2/                  No.       50,000        1  50,000         75          37, 00
Reservoir                      No.       20,000        1  20,000         20           4,1oo
Lend develoPnet 3/           Acre         l,f00       50   75,000        10           7 S00
Sub-totAl                                        145,000                    49,100
Farm Machiner
,"ractor (45 HP)              NO.       55,)00        1  55,000          80         4&,000
Plov - 2 furrow                n        15,000        1  15,000          80          12,000
revuaible n/b
Disc harrow W                  n         4,000        1    4,000         50           2,000
Cultivator                    ,n 4,OO                  1    4,000        50           2,100
Ridger V                      '           3,000       1    3,000         50           1,500
Seed drill.-djoUble
for weg. need                         20,000       1   20,000         80         16,000
Thresher-ad hetabl e
for veg. seed              n         50,000        1    o,o000        80         40,000
Sprayer-motor 4/                         5,000         1    5,000        50           2,500
Trailer 4/                              12,000        1   12,000         50          6,000
Sll tools                     -          --           -  10,000         50           5,000
Sparee - /                    -            --          -  35,00          80          28,000
Sub-total                                       213 ,000                  159 ,no
Procwaing 31it
Clipper                        NO.      27,500         1   27,500        85          23,400
Cleanr and grader              n        6s,ooo         1  65,000         85          55,250
IrAdented cylinder                      35,000         1   35,000        85          29,750
Gravity  s  rator                       34,n)0         1 34,000          85          28,io00
Scales                                    2,000        3   6,000         85           5,100
Seed treater                             8,COO        1    8,000         85           6,oO0
Heat sealizg .acim                        5,000        1    5,000        85           4,250
lMiscellaneous                             -           -  10,000         50           5.000
Sub-total                                        190,500                   158,400
Suildiris
Phceasing hasl and stare '00 sq.ft.    10,000         20  200,000        15          30,000
Offices                                 10,000       10  100,000         15          15,000
Inlmant shed                              l,QO         5  15,000         15           2,250
Farm store                                5,000        5  25,000         15           3,750
Comcrete surroumn                         1,400       20   28,000        15           4,200
Architects fees - 8% of
building cost                           --          -   294o00         5           1.500
Sub-total                                        397,400                    56,700
Vehicle                       me.        50,000        1  50,000         50          25,000
Office equiS;                  Sot       6,000         7   42,000        20           8,400
Trenamdasion line            ISle       45,000        1   45,00          80          36000
Sub-total                                        137.000                    69.4oo
Total Investment Costa                               1,082,900                  492,500
V  Pdyezg aswd - 60d in ymr 2, 40% in yer 3.
2/ Fr  Annex 3, Table 2.
I/ Chamels 6,000 ft 0 Re 7.501 reeds 6,000 ft 8 Rs 30; lelling (mainly fine) 50 aca 9 Rs 240.
Itet  of local manufactwr, otbar euipt *ane d imported.
10% witA p a              of iperd items in year 2 (asamed for sizplicity) and 5% for each of
y~e3, =aad5



ANNEX 6
UAM                                                                        h;bl * 1
SD FJCT
F_Bearch and Pilot Projictg
OCgtJU   Coat  of VYS.otabl 8.3d PnJmot
Total     Ford gn       For eign
,ear 1          Tear 2         T"r 3-5         Cost      inhaage       fchange
Ua         UEL*l C        io*      Re      N.       is  oc.         Ba       Re                        Rt
Proje,ot liretar I/                 Non Tier          -           .5    -        1      -         I1
As    nt Director                               12,000        .5   6,000      1    12,000      1    12,000     54,ooo
Processing Conultant l/                               -          .5    -          .5               .5    -
Processing Superinteadent              n             9,000       .5   4,500      1     9,000      1     9,000     lo,500
Farn Suprintendent                                   9,000        .5   4,500     1     9,000      1     9,000      40,5s0
Accountant                                           9,000       -      -         .5  k5.D0       1     9,000      31,500
Secretax7                                            3,600       -      -         .5   180O0      1     3,600     12,600
Artisan/nechanj,c for plant                          2,200       -      -        -      -         1     2,200      6,600
Drivers                                              2,200       -      -        1     2,200      2     4,400     15,400
Farm labor                                           1,500       -      -        3     4,500      3     4,500     18,000
Plant labor                                          1,500       -      -        2     3,000      2     3,000 '  12,000         -            -
Peons and  Chovkidars                                1,500        -     -         3     4,5oo     6      9,000     31,500
Clerks                                 n             2,000       -      -        1     2,800      2     5.600     19.600
Sub-total                                                  15,000           53,300           71,300    2d2,200
Farm
ctorwll 2/  1ch0 3hours                            11 6                          1    Jo0'  602    21,r           77 000        50          38,50
TructorAna  -7             oOOb                                       300  ~ ~                 91         33,600       50           6,o
iqnpits,_V (                         cr,               350       -      -       25     8,750    50    17,500       61,250       50          30,600
Caa1l labor                      '00 1In das           700       -      -        7     4.900    15    10.5         64          -             -
Sub-total,                                                                  29,450           59,600    208,25o                   65,900
Plant I rat±on arx aairtenance        -               -          -      -        -                                4oo 15,000  os,o  20       9,000
Sacks     packing  aterials           -               -          -      -                              15 000       000         20           9o000
Sub-total                                                                                    30,000     90,000                   18,000
Other
Staff allowances (43% of salary)      -                          -    6,ooo           21,300    -      28,500    112,800        -             -
Ba1uding maintenance (214)            -               -          -      -        -      --       -      9,900      29,700       -             -
Office supplies                       -               -          -      -        -     7,500    -      15,000      52,500       20          10,500
Vehicle enning
(10,000 wlas  Rs 1.0)              No           10,000        -     -         1    10,000     1    10,000      4o0           50         20.000
Sub-total                                                   6,000           38 800           634,0o    235.000                   34 500
Total Operating Costs_                                            21,000          11,550           224,300    815,450                  13h 400
1/  Coated in Tecdical Assistance, A-  7.
Based on Annex 3, "able 2 ith depreciation omtt3d.
5/ Based on Amex 3, Table I wiLth depreciation oitted.
!/  Fertilizer 3 bags S Rs 75; pestcide Rts 5O; need Rs 50J; misceilammam R  25.
I/  Project Costa would include firet three yea" opatirg costa.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Vegetable Seed Production and Sales
Yield                     Production                    Price,/                    Revenue
Maund/           Year 3          Year 4 and on          R/               Year 3          Yer 4 and on
Acre             ---maunds-----------                   Maund            --------'000 Rs------------
Cabbage                      5                25                  25                1,200              30                  30
Carrot                       5                -                   25                1,200              _                   30
Cauliflower                  5                25                  25                3,000              75                  75
Cucumber                     5                25                  25                3,500              87.5                87.5
Peas                        20               100                 100                  500              50                  50
Radish                       9                45                  45                1,200              54                  54
Spinach                      9                45                  45                1,200              54                  54
Turnip                       7                _                   35                1,200              -                   42
422.5
1/ Assumed ex-plant price based on retail prices in Quetta at time of appraisal.
VI 0



ANNEX 6
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Cropping Pattern of Vegetable Seed Farm
Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5
Cabbage                                      5               5 
Carrot,/                     5                10              10         10
Cauliflower                  5                 5             5           5
Cucumber                       5                5               5
Peas                          5                 5              5
Radish                        5                  5              5
Spinach                      5_. 5                              5
Turnip4 15                                    10              10         10
Nursery
1/ Numbper of acres.
2/ Biennial seeding,hence double acreage.



PAKIS TAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Potato Seed Programs  V
Gener-  Project                             Seed      Seed        Seed       Acres                     Anrual
ation    Tears    Season   Location   Source   Amount             Rate      Planted        4ield    Production
(tons)  (tons/acre)               (tons/acre)  SeedWDsre                                   LOu mIHIH
----- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  P R O C H a H   I - - -  -------------------
Imported Seed
1      2,3,4,5    uuner  high hill   import            1.2       0.6           2          6           8       4                                      4
2i        3,4,5   summer  high hiL-i        1          3.0       o.6           5.0        6          20      10 ) |
2ii       3,4,5   summer  middle hill   1              3.0       0.6           5.0        7.5        24      12         m                            HH                          P
2iii      3,4,5   autumn    plains         1           4.6       0.9           5.0        7.5        24      12
3i          4,5   summer  high hill         2i         3.0       0.6           5.0        6          20      10
3ii    I    4,5   mummer  middle hill   2i             3.0       0.6           5.0        7.5        24      12    )     HH                          HH                          P
3iii        4,5   autumn    plains          2i         4.6       0.9           5.0        7-5        24      12
4i            5   sunmer  high hill         3i         3.0       0.6           5.0        6          20      10
4ii           5   summer  middle hill   3i             3.0       o.6           5.0        7.5        24      12 )        HH- IP
4iii          5   autumn    plainis         3i         4.6       0.9           5.0        7.5        24      12
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  P R O tl R A M   II  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Impor ted See
1      2,3,14,5   summer  high hill   import          12         o.6           20         6          80      40                                   H1
2i        3,4,5   spring  middle hill   1             60         o.6         100          6         400    200  )       MR (ppring)                                        > H   (sunmer)
2ii       3,4,5   summer  middle hill   1             60         o.6         100          7.5       500    250          4        -                                              4'
3i          4,5   autumn    plains          2i      400          0.9         445          7.5             3,300          P (autumn)                                              P (srirg)
3ii         4,5   spring    plains          2ii      500         o.6         d30          7.5             6,200         J j
4             5   autumn    plains          3i        90         0.9         100          7.5               750          P (autumn)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  P R OG  R A M    III - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                _
Imported Seed
1      2,3,4,5   spring       plains    import        15         o.6           25         8         130      70                                i      P (spring)
2i        3,4,5   autumn    plains          1        130         0.9         145          7.5       700    350  )        P (auP (spirg)
2ii       3,4,5   spring      plains       1          70         0.6         115          7.5               860
3           4,5   autumn    plains         2i       700          0.9         775          7.5            5,d00           P (autumn)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P R OG  R A M IV-
ii     2,3,4,5   spring  middle hill import           10         o.6           15         6          60      30        MH (spring g)4D Imported Seed                            MH (summer)
lii    2,3,4,5   2ur.s',er  middle hill import        10         0.6           15         7.5        70      35
2i        3,4,5   autumn    p?.ains        li         90         0.9         100          7.5       500    250  )       P (autumn)                                               P (sprirg) ")
2ii       3,4,5   spring    plains          lii      105         o.6         175          7.5             1,300  )    1{
3           4,5   autumn    plains         2i        320         0.9         350          7.5             2,600         P (autumn)
V   For both NWP' and Baluchistan. Acreages and quantities are equally distributed between these two provinces.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Investment Costs of Potato Seed project)]
Foreign          Foreign
Unit          Unit Cost        Total Coet            Exchange         Exchange
Re          No.       Rs              %                Rs
Project Director's Office
4-Wheel drive vehicle                     No.             50,000          1     50,000           50                25,000
Office equipment                                            -                   15,000           30                 4,500
Sub-total                                                                  65,000                            29,500
Punjab (Plains)
Buildings
Cold store and grading shed         '00 sq. ft.         20,000        90 1,800,000             30              540,000
Offices                                                 10,000          6     60,000           15                 9,000
Garage and store                         "              40,000          5    200,000           15                30,000
Hard standing                                            1,400        1GO    140,000            5                 7,000
Wall to compound                      '00 ft.            3,000         10     30,000            5                 1,500
Architects fees - 8% of                                   -                  178,400            5                 8,900
building cost
Sub-total                                                               2,408,400                           596,400
Equipment
Weighbridge (20-ton)                    No.            170,000          1    170,000           85               144,500
Conveyors                               No.             30,000          1     30,000           85               25,500
Grader (5-ton per hour)                 No.            200,000          1    200,000           85              170,000
Scales                                  No.              5,000          2     10,000           85                8,500
Cooling equipment                                         -             -  1,000,000           85              850,000
Office equipment                        Set              6,000          5     12,000           20                 2,400
Sprayers - tractor mounted              No.             12,000          2     24,000           80               19,200
Small tools and equipment                                 -             -     20,000           50               10,000
Sub-total                                                               1,466,000                         1,230,100
Transport
4-Wheel drive vehicle                   No.             50,000          1     50,000           50               25,000
Tractor (45 HP) and trailer             No.             67,000          1     67,000           75               50,250
Sub-total                                                                 117,000                            75,250
Continued on page 2/..



PAKISTAN
SE$D PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Tnvestenlt Oosts of Potato Seed Project!/
(continumifrom Page 1)
NWP and Baluchistan - Niddle Hill
Buildings
Stores and grading shede            '00 sq. ft.          6,500         60    390,000            15                58,500
Offices                                  "              10,000          a      80,000           15                12,000
Houses                                                   6,000         40    240,000            15                36,000
Garages and store                                        4,000          8      32,000           15                 4,8oo
Hard standings                                           1,400         80    112,000             5                 5,600
Architects fee - 8X                      -                -              -     68,300            5                 3'4°°
Sub-total                                                                  922,300                            61,800
Equipment
Graders(3-ton per hour)                 No.            120,000          2    240,000            85               204,000
Scales                                  No.              5,000          2      10,000           85                 8,500
Office equipment                        Set              6,000          4      24,ooo           20                 4,800
Small tools and equipment                -                -                    15,000           50                 7,500
Sub-total                                                                  289,000                           224,800
Transport
4-Wheel drive vehicle                   No.             50,000          2    100,000            50                50,000
NWFP and Baluchistan - High Wall
Buildings
Office                                sq. ft.               100        300     30,000           15                 4,500
Grading shelter                                              30     1,000      30,000           15                 4,500
Store                                                        65       800      52,000           15                 7,800
House                                                        60      1;200     72,000           15                10,800
Hard standing                       '00 sq. ft.          1,400          80    112,000            5                 5,600
Architects fee - 8%                                        -             -     23,6              5                 1180
Sub-total                                                                  319,600                             34,380
Equip-ent
Office equipment                        Sot              6,000           2     12,o00           20                 2,400
Scales                                  No.              5,000          2      10,000           as                 8,500
Tools and equipment                      -                -              -     10,000           50                 5,000
Sub-total                                                                   32,000                             15,9oo
TOTAL INVESTMXNT COSTS                                                                                             2,318,130
/  Phasing Year 2, 60%; Year 3, 40%. For the middle and high hill prograas, the costs are equally ahared
by NWFP arnd Baluchistan



PAKIS TA N
SEED PHWJECT
Research and  lot Pro lects
OperatilK Coats of Potato Seed Project
Total    Poreign       Foreign
Unit Cost        Year 1          Yaar 2          Year 3          Year 4          Tear 5          Coat      Exchange     Exchange
Urit    _  fi          No.     Ha      No.     ls    No.       aie    No.       la    No.    Rl            Ha                       Reg
Project Director's Office 1/
Salaries
roJect Director 2/          Man-year                  .5   -          1    -          1    -          1    -          1    -              -           -
Accountant                                 4,50O      .5   2,250      1     4,500     1     4,500     1     4,500     1     4,500        20,250D
Clark/typist                               3,000      .5   1,500      1     3,000     1     3,000     1     3,000     1     3,000        13,500
Driver                                     2,200      .5   1,100      1     2,200     1     2.200     1     2,200     1    2,200          9.900       -             -
Sub-total                                            4,850           9,700           9,700           9,700           9,700        43,650
Otoer
Staff allowances
(40% of salary)              -         -           -    1,940      -    3,880      -    3,880      -     3,880     -    3,880         17,460       -
Vehic le running
(15,000'm/s 14Rs 1.0)       No.       15,0O0       .5   7,500     1    15,000      1    15,000     1    15,000     1   15,000         67,500       50           33,750
Office rent ard supplies        -         -           -    10,000     -   25,ooo      -    25,000     -    25,000     -   25,ooo        110,000       10           11,000
Travel and subeistexte          -         -           -    6,O0O      -   12,000      -   12,W000     -   12,000      -   12,000         54,000        20          10,800
Imported seed-commercial      Ton          3,5ou      -   -          35  122,500    35  122,500    35  122,500    35  122,500           490,000        90         441,000
-low virus       Ton          7,0Do      -    -         13    91000   13    91,000    13    91.000    13    91,000         364 000        90         327 600
Sub-total                                           25,440         269,380         269,380         269,380         269,380     1,102,960                   824,150
Punjab (Plairs)
Salaries
21i~ Stant Project Director Man-year       12,000      .5   6,000      1    12,000     1    12,000     1    12,000      1    12,000        54,000       -
Grading and Storage
Manager                                 9,000      _-              .5   4,500      1     9,000     1     9,000     1      9,000        31,500       -
Technical Assistant            "           It,500     -    -          .5   2,250      1     4,so0     1     4,500     1     4,5no        15,750        -
Administrative Assistant                   4,500      -    -          .5   2,250      1     4,500     1     4,5o0     1     4,500         15,750       -
Accounts Clek                  "           3,200      -    -          .5   1,600      1     3,200     1     3,200     1     3,200         11,200       -
Clerks                                     2,800      -    -          1     2,800     2     5,600     2     5,600     2     5,60O        19,600        -
Foreman                                    2,500      -    -          .5   1,250      1     2,500     1     2,500     1     2,5o0          8,750       -
Drivers                                    2,200      -    -          1     2,200     2     4,400     2    4,400      2    4,400         15,400        -
Chokiddars aid Peonsan                     1,500      -   -           3    4,500      7    10.500     7   10,500      7   10,500          36,ooo5,6
Sub-total                                            6,000          33,350          56,200          56,200          56,200        207,950
Other                                                                                                                            i
Staff allowances (40%)         _          _           -    2,400      -   13,340      -    22,480     -    22,480     -   22,4i0          83,180       -
Direct costs Of storage
and gradirg _/             Ton            750      -    _          _    -       1200   900,000  1200   900,000  1200   900,000      2,700,000       -
Office supplies                           -                           -   10,000      -   10,000      -   10, OO      -   10,000          40,000       20           8,000
Vehicle running
(12,000 mls O R.1.0)        No.        12,000      -    _          1    12,000     1    12,000     1    12,000     1    12,000        48,000        50          24,000      D . 
Tractor running                                                                                                                                                                - a
(t,?fV hr' e3 Rg 15)        No,        18,000      -    -          -    -          I    18,000     1    18,n00     I    18/ion        iO., ino                  ??,O IY
Trials-direct coats
less seeda4/               Acre          900 g                                    2.5    2,250      5   4.500    7-5    6,750          13,500       20           2,700
Repaira aid maintainance
-buildings 2-1/2%           -          _           _    _          _               -    55,750     -    55,750     -   55,750         167,250       15          25,000
-equipDmnt 5%                                                                      -    73, 0o     -    73,000      -   73,000        219.oo        50         109.500
Sub-total                                            2,400          35,340       1,093,480       1,095,T30        1,097,980     3,324,930                  196,200



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Prolects
Operating Costs of Potato Seed Project
(continue from Page 1)
YFP (Middle and High Hill.s
Salaries 5/
Assistant Project Director  Man-year        12,000       1    12,000    2       24,000     2    24,000       2    24,OOC      2    24,ooo        108,000
Technical Assistant              "4,500                  -    -          1       4,500     2      9,000     2      9,000      2     9,000         31,500
Foremen i/9 grading
and Btore                                 3,000       -    -          1       3,000     2      6,o0o     2      6,0oO      2     6,ooo         21,000
Accounts clerki                               3,200      -    -          1       3,200     2      6,400      2     6,400      2     6,400         22,400
Clerki                                       2,800       -    -          1       2,800     2      5,600      2     5,600      2     5,600         19,600
Driver                           "            2,200      -    -          1       2,200     2      4,400      2     4,400      2     4,400         15,400
Choukidars and PeDora                        1,500       -    _          6       9.000    i      21.000    lb    21.000    IL    21.000           72-.M
Sub-total                                              12,000           48,700           76,400           76,400            76,400        289,900
Other
Staff aflloances                 -          -            -      4,8o0           19,480     -    30,560            30,560      -    30,560        115,960
Direct costs of storage
and grading-3/              Ton             4T5       -    -                 -       2400 1,L40,000  2400 1,140,000  2400 1,140,000         3,420,000
Office supplies                  -          -            -    -                20,000      -    20,000       -    20,000      -    20,000         80,000        20           16,000
Vehicle runnirg
(12,000 uls ORB 1.0)         Mo.         12,000       -    -          2     24,000      -    24,000      2    24,000      2    24,000          96,000        50           48,ooo
Trials-direct costs
less seed /                 Acre          1,200       -    -          -     -          12    14,400    22    26,400    32    38,400            79,200        20           15,d00
Repairs and aintainance
- building 2-1/2%                                        -               -                      39,200     -    39,200       -    39,200        117,700        15           17,600
- equipment 5%                   -         -                                     --             17 ooo     -    17,000       -    17o000         51o000        50           2Q
Sub-total                                               4,800           63,480        1,285,160        1,297,160        1.309,160      3.5S760                       122,900
Total Operatirg Costs                                      55,490          459,95u        2,790,320        2,804,570         2,818,820     8.929.150                   1,204.700
Purchase of seed from
faruers a/               Ton           1,350       -    -                        24no  3,240,ooo 2400  3,240,000 2400  3,240,000        9,720,000
Revenues from
-Middle Hills 8/          Ton           2 700       -       -    -                1000  2,700,000 1000  2,70,0o0 10 00 270000            8,1000            -
-Plains                   Ton           2 700       -    -           -                     -        90029 2   00  9    21430 000         4,600             -
Total Revemus                                                                             2,700,000        5,130,000         5,130,000    12,960,000                                     *|I| 
Projsect Ccsts 2,                                             55,490           459,950        3,330,320          914,570          928,820      5,689,150
1/  Project Director baaed in Islamabad and responsible for NW-!, Pah;istar. cnd P4nJL
2/ Costed in Technical Assistance, Annex 7.
3/ See Table 10 .
U/ issumed land provided at Sialkot Research Station.
O/ nly 2 chowkidars permanently based in high hills.
6/ Ineludes land rent.
7/ Assumed farm gate price of Rs 1080 per ton plus 25% premium.
/Sales reflect losses through storage and grading; see Table 10. The Plaire crop revenues fali in the year following purchase.
2/  Project Costs will cover the dperating costs plus the initial purchases of seed from farmers mirnus revenues from seed sale.



ANNEX 6
Table 10
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Research and Pilot Projects
Direct Costs of Cold Storage and Grading of Seed Potatoes
Punjab
Rs per ton
Operation of cold store - Rs  20 per ton per month          140.00
Labor costs - .75 ton per man day at Rs 7 per
man day                                                     5.25
Sacks, labels, etc.                                         200.00
Cleanings, soils, etc. - 10% 1/                             135.00
Loss in storage - 2% per month                              190.00
Transport to store - 20 miles                                10.00
680.25
Contingencies (insurance, etc.) - 10%                        69.75
750.00
NWFP and Baluchistan
Rs per ton
Labor costs                                                   5.25
Sacks, labels, etc.                                         200.00
Cleanings, soils, etc. - 10% 1/                             135.00
Loss in storage - 2% per month for 3 months                  80.00
Transport to store - 20 miles                                10.00
430.25
Contingencies  (insurance, etc.) - 10%                       44.75
475.00
1/ Based on an assumed farmgate price of Rs 40 per ton plus
a 25% premium (in practice it may prove advisable to have
a different premium for different generations of seed - for
simplicity this is ignored here).



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJZCT
Technical Assistance and Training
General
1.        The establishment of a new and modern seed industry on the scale
proposed would require high caliber technical and managerial skills at all
phases of project development. The organization of contract seed growing
by farmers and the provision of advisory services to seed growers, for farm
development planning, and seed crop cultivation, would be critical to project
success. Although well qualified staff are available locally, they would re-
quire specialist assistance and training to acquaint them with the particular
problems of seed production. For seed processing, quality control, and pilot
project activities, however, infusion of foreign technical and managerial
skills, and training of local personnel, would be required on a much more
substantial scale.
2.        Internationally recruited specialists and advisory services are
thus considered essential in the following areas:
National Seed Certification    -   pre- and post-control
Agency (NSCA)                 -   field inspection
-   seed analysis.
Provincial Seed Corporations   -   contract seed growing
-   processing plant operations
Pilot Projects                   -   vegetable seed production and processing
-   potato seed production and storage
In addition to the technical assistance outlined above the project would
finance engineering services to assist with construction activities under
the various components. Locally recruited engineering firms would be able
to undertake this work. Technical assistance would cost Rs 21 M. Details
are given in Table 1. TOR for all specialists'are given in the Appendix
and schedule for their services is given in Chart 1.
3.        Staff training would be a priority responsibility of all specialists.
Much of the training required could be given on the job. However, a number of
staff would be given specialized training overseas to create the nucleus of
trained staff necessary to start operations in the various components. This
would be funded under the project. The cost would be about Rs 2.8 M. Details
are given in Table 2.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Quality Control
4.        Technical Assistance.  Provision has been made in the project costs
for two specialists each for three years to assist the NSCA. One specialist
would assume responsibility for the Agency's field inspection activities, and
pre- and post-control trials. The second specialist would be in charge of the
Agency's laboratory operations and seed certification procedures. Both spe-
cialists would be in post as soon as possible after project commencement so
as to assist in organizing and staffing the Agency, planning the Agency oper-
ations, making fields and laboratories ready, preparing a quality control
manual of procedure, and commencing a staff training program.
5.        Training.  All the senior staff of the NSCA, including the four
Senior Certification Officers from the project areas, and the Director of
the Registration Agency, would be given 6 months overseas training in their
respective fields. Three Certification Officers, two for potato and one for
vegetables, would also receive overseas training. The remainder of the staff
engaged in quality control operations would be trained locally in accordance
with programs developed by the two specialists.
Seed Corporations - Production Departments
6.        Technical Assistance.  The first task of the Production Departments
would be to plan a production program and then to publicize project activity,
initiate farmer contacts, appraise farms of potential seed growers and event-
ually arrange contracts for the first year's production. To fit with the pro-
posed plant construction schedules this would have to be done quickly. Fur-
thermore, in order to provide the maximum time within the project period for
the selection of the best growers and for farm development activities, early
contacts should be made with a large number of farmers, despite the phasing
to full production over three years.
7.        In this phase of initial farmer contact, farmers would have to be
fully informed of the contractual requirements of a seed grower, and the
concomitant benefits to be derived from the seed premium and farm develop-
ment offered under the project.
8.        No problem is envisaged in staffing Corporation Production Depart-
ments with well qualified agriculturalists. However, they would be totally
lacking in knowledge of the seed industry and the techniques of seed produc-
tion. Provision has, therefore, been made for two seed production specialists
to organize and operate Production Departments for two years. One specialist
would work full time with the Punjab Corporation, and the other with the
Sind Corporation.
9.        In addition to the foregoing the production specialists would be
responsible for the planning, development and management of the Corporation
seed farms.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
10.       Training.  The task of organizing a large number of contract seed
growers, advising them on farm development and developing Corporation seed
farms, would be enormous. To complement the work of the two production
specialists the four Senior Production Advisors, three from Punjab and one
from Sind, plus the Corporation Farm Managers, would be trained overseas in
seed production techniques. The remaining Production Department staff would
be given on-the-job training by the two specialists.
Seed Corporations - Processing Departments
11.       Technical Assistance.  Consultant services would be made available
to assist in plant site selection, plant design and the preparation of tender
documents. Subsequently three processing specialists would be made available,
each for three years, to launch the Corporations' processing operations.
During this period they would ensure that the plants were operating efficient-
ly and to planned capacity, and would supervise the training of operating
persoinel .
12.       Training.  The General Managers and Superintendents of the plants
would be trained overseas prior to the start of operations. Plant Superin-
tendents could probably be trained in India, and a lower training cost has
been assumed in consequence. Managers, however, would benefit from exposure
to a wider range of operations and travel to Europe or the USA has been
assumed.
13.       Provision has also been made for the Managing Directors of each
Corporation to travel overseas. The objective would be to familiarize them
with seed industry operations. This knowledge would be essential to their
role in the development of an industry completely new to Pakistan.
Pilot Projects
14.       Technical Assistance.  Two specialists, in vegetable and potato
seed production, would be provided to run the two pilot projects since local
expertise in these fields is not available. In addition provision has been
made for a vegetable seed processing consultant to advise on the processing
aspects of the vegetable project.
15.       Training. The Assistant Project Directors, two for potatoes, one
for vegetables, would be trained overseas in potato and vegetable seed pro-
duction techniques.
Executive Functions
16.       All specialists employed by the Seed Certification Agency, Provin-
cial SeeU Corporations and for the Pilot Projects, would have executive res-
ponsibilities assigned to them. The local personnel would be promoted to
take over from them when trained and functioning effectively in their assigned
positions before the specialists' terms expire.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
17.       It might be possible to recruit specialists individually under
separate contracts. However, it is considered that it would be quicker and
more reliable if an international consulting firm, with seed production and
processing expertise, were engaged to provide all the technical assistance
required, uader a composite service contract.



Annex 7
Appendix
Page 1
PAKISTAN
Seed Project
Technical Assistance
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The Government of Pakistan (GOP) is engaged in the establishment of
a modern seed industry financed partly with a Credit provided by the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA). The project involves the production,
processing and distribution of pre-basic, basic, certified, and approved
generations of seed of cotton and cereals (wheat, maize, rice, pulses, berseem,
oilseeds) on a commercial scale, and pilot scale production and processing of
vegetable and potato seed.
2.        The commercial operations would be carried out by two autonomous
Government owned Corporations in the Provinces of Punjab and Sind namely:
Punjab Seed Corporation (PSC) and
Sind Seed Corporation (SSC).
3.        The quality control and seed certification would be entrusted the
National Seed Certification Agency (NSCA) to serve all Provinces in the
country.
4.        The Provincial Departments of Agriculture would be responsible for
the pilot projects:
Vegetables in Baluchistan;
Potato in Punjab, and Baluchistan.
5.        GOP is desirous of employing consultants specialized in the seed
industry to provide the following services:



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 2
Approximate
Number         Seed Production                               Duration
2            Specialists                                   3 years each
Seed Processing
Group          Plant site selection, design and
preparation of tender documents.            15 man-months
3            Processing Specialists (one, or prefer-
ably, two, to be conversant with
cereals and cotton)                         3 years each
Seed Certification
1            Field Inspection Specialist (also familiar
with pre and post control trials)           3 years
1            Seed Analysis and Certification Specialist   3 years
Pilot Projects
1            Vegetable Seed Production Specialist          4 years
1            Vegetable Seed Processing Specialist         24 man-months
1            Potato Seed Production Specialist             4 years
Engineering Services
Group          Building design, preparation of tender
documents, contract supervision            30 man-months
6.        All specialists would be resident in Pakistan continuously except:
the Group responsible for processing plant design etc.,
and the Vegetable Processing Specialist. These would visit
the country as necessary according to an agreed schedule.
Resident Specialists, other than the Engineering Services
Group, would be assigned executive and training responsibilities
in the respective institutions in addition to functioning
as advisors in their fields of specialization.
The Engineering Services Group would serve all Provincial Governments con-
cerned. Terms of Reference and qualifications for the various specialist
services are indicated below.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 3
Advisory Group - Processing Plants
7.        The group would be required to:
-    assist in the selection of sites for processing plants:
3 Cotton cum Cereal seed plants
(2 in Punjab and 1 in Sind);
1 Cereal plant in Punjab;
-    prepare site plans, building designs, processing equipment
specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluations;
-    resolve technical and engineering problems that may be
experienced during plant installation and commissioning;
The consultants assigned for this service would be qualified engineers with
adequate experience in design; construction and operation of large, modern
seed processing plants.
Processing Specialists
8.        Each Processing Specialist would:
-    be assigned to a Provincial Seed Corporation;
-    serve as an Executive Assistant  to the Managing
Director of the Corporation;
-    be present during, and assist in the running in of, plant
and equipment;
-    be responsible for all seed processing operations including
engineering, transport and storage services;
-    be responsible for setting up and maintaining plant load
schedules, work records, and process costs;
-    be responsible for Processing Department budgets;
-    liaise with the Seed Certification Agency;
-    organize and implement the training program for the Corpora-
tion's Processing Department personnel; and
-    assist in procurement of processing equipment and
supplies.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 4
Qualifications
-    have a University Degree or equivalent in Agricultural
Engineering or other appropriate discipline;
-    have not less than 10 years experience in seed processing
of which at least 5 years should have been gained as
the manager of a commercial scale seed plant;
-    have experience of cotton and/or wheat, rice, maize seed
processing using modern machinery;
-    have a knowledge of seed marketing;
-    be experienced in staff training;
-    be physically fit to undertake frequent travel within the
country; and
-    be less than 55 years of age.
Production Specialists
9.        Each Production Specialist would:
-    be assigned to a Provincial Seed Corporation;
-   serve as an Executive Assistant to the Managing
Director of the Corporation;
-    assist in the planning and development, and management of
Corporation seed farms;
-    instal management systems on Corporation farms, including
labor and equipment utilization schedules, work and
field records, job costs, and interfarm comparisons;
-    prepare seed production programs for:
(i). pre-basic seed by Research Institutes;
(ii) basic seed by Corporation farms and, if
necessary, contract growers;
(iii) certified seed by contract growers; and
(iv) approved cotton seed within the areas
segregated for the purpose.
-    arrange registration of, and contracts with, seed growers
sufficient to meet production targets;
-    assist in organizing Corporation advisory services to
contract seed growers;
-    organize and implement training programs for Corporation
farm managers and advisory staff;
-    be responsible for the preparation of Production Department
budgets;
-    assist in procurement of field equipment; and
-    make frequent visits to seed farms in the Province.



ANNEX 7.
Appendix
Page 5
Qualifications:
-    have a University Degree or equivalent in Agriculture;
-    have not less than ten years experience in farm management
of which at least 3 years should have been gained in
seed production;
-    have served at least 3 years as a consultant to, or manager
or director of, a seed business;
-    have experience in tropical farming conditions, and in the
growing of cotton and or wheat, rice and maize;
-    have experience in staff training;
-    be physically fit to undertake frequent travel within the
country; and
-    be less than 55 years of age.
Seed Certification Specialists
10.       The Seed Certification Specialists would:
-    be assigned to the Seed Certification Agency;
-    be responsible to the Director of the Agency;
-    work in close cooperation with each other;
-    help in the organization, staffing and management of the
Agency;
-    organize and implement the training program for Agency
personnel;
-    prepare Agency work programs and annual budgets;
assist in the procurement of equipment for the Agency (for
field trials and laboratories);
-    establish procedures for field inspection, crop sampling,
laboratory analysis; certification and pre and post
control trials;
-    periodically visit seed farms, research institutions, pro-
cessing plants in the country; and
-    advise on the staff, procedures and equipment necessary to
run the Registration Agency.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 6
Qualifications:
-    have a University Degree in Agriculture or related subject;
-    have not less than 10 years experience in seed quality control
with at least 5 years in an internationally recognized seed
certification agency;
-    be familiar with legal aspects of seed quality control and
seed certification;
-    have experience in staff training;
-    be physically fit to undertake frequent travel within the
country; and
-    be less than 55 years of age.
11.       The Potato Seed Production Specialist would:
-    be assigned to work with the Departments of Agriculture in
Punjab, MWI? and Baluchistan;
-    report to the respective Directors of Agriculture;
-    prepare detailed work programs for the project including the
design of facilities (cold stores etc.) and trials;
-    be responsible for pilot project implementation according to
programs and schedules agreed by the relevant Departments
of Agriculture;
-    prepare project budgets;
-    assist in the procurement of services and equipment for the
project; and
-    train project staff.
Qualifications:
-    have a University Degree in Agriculture or related subject;
-    have at least 5 years experience of potato seed production
in an areas(s) subject to the spread of virus disease
by aphis;
-  have experience of the design, conduct, analysis and inter-
pretation of agricultural experimerts;
-    have experience in the design and operation of cold stores;
-    have been exposed to working conditions in a developing country;
-    be physically fit to undertake frequent travel within the
country; and
-    be less than 55 years of age.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 7
12.       The Vegetable Seed Production Specialist would:
-    be assigned to the Baluchistan Department of Agriculture;
-    be responsible to the Director of Agriculture;
-    liaise closely with the Processing Specialist;
-    prepare a detailed work program for the project;
-    plan, develop and operate the project farm;
-    arrange for a study of the market for vegetable seed in
Pakistan;
-    arrange markets for project output;
-    prepare project budgets;
-    assist in the procurement of services and equipment for the
project; and
-    train project staff.
Qualifications:
-    have a University Degree in Agriculture or related subject;
-    have at least 5 years experience of vegetable seed production;
-    be familiar with vegetable breeding techniques and potential
sources of varietal material suitable for multiplication
in Pakistan by unsophisticated growers;
-    be familiar with the design, conduct, analysis and interpreta-
tion of agricultural experiments;
-    have been exposed to working conditions in a tropical country;
and be under 55 years of age and of good physical fitness.
Vegetable Seed Processing Specialist
13.       The Specialist would:
-    be assigned to the Baluchistan Department of Agriculture;
-    be responsible to the Director of Agriculture;
-    liaise closely with the Production Specialist;
-    visit the country as necessary, according to an agreed
schedule, to:
(i) design the vegetable seed processing plant, prepare
specifications and tender docunents and assist with
bid evaluations;
(ii) supervise the installation of equipment;
(iii) run-in the plant and team staff in its operation.



ANNEX 7
Appendix
Page 8
Qualifications:
-    have a University Degree or equivalent in Agricultural
Engineering or related subject;
-    have not less than 10 years experience in seed processing of
which at least 5 years should have been with vegetable seed;
-    have at least five years experience in a managerial capacity
in the seed industry; and
have experience of the design of seed processing plants.



PAKISTAN
SEED PhOJECT
Technical Assistance aid Training
Cost of Teohnical Assistance
lvweig"    Foreign
Unit Cost      Year 1            Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5         Total Cost       &Ldhaage  Ekdhange
Unit    000 'Rs    No.   '000 Hs   No.   '000 Ns   No.   '000 Rs   No.   '000 Rs   no.   '000 Rs   No.   '000 Rs                       i '000 Rs
CORPORATIONS
Plant site selection, design
and preparation of tender      Han-
docueonts                      month        75        5       375      5       375      5        375          -                                   1,125       100        1,125
bogineering services/contract
supervision                       "          5        6        30     12        60     12         60                                       30       150        _          _
Processing specialists  /            "         50            -               _            36      1,800    36    1,800      36    1,800    108       5,400        80        4,320
Production specialists 3/            "         50       18       900     24    1.200      24      1.200     6       300            --         72     3.600 802
Sub-total                                                     1,305             1,635             3,435           2,100            1,800            10,275                  8,325
QUAIITY COWNTOL
SMf ft:J A yst      "          5°       9      450      12       600.    12        600     3       150           _           36     1,800       80         1,440
d irspector                "         50        9      450      12      600      12       600      3       150          -           36      1,800       80         1.440
Sub-total                                                        900            1,200             1,200             300                               3,600                 2,880
PILOT PWUITS
Project Director-Vegetable Seed    "           50        8      400      12      600      12        600    12       600      10      500      54     2,700       80         2,160
Vegetable Seed Processirg
Specialist                        5         75        6      450       9       675      9        675          -                -           *4     1,800      100         1,800
Project Director-Potato Seed         "          50       8       400     12       600     12        600    12       600      10      500      54      20700       80        2,160
Rigineering services/cortract
supervision - vegetable and
potato                            "           5       6        30      6        30      6         30          -                _           18         90      -           _
Sub-total                                                      1,280            1,905             1,905           1,200            1,000    447       7,290                 6,120
TOTAL TWHICAL ASSISTAME ODST8                                    3,485            4,740             6,54o           3,600            2,800             21,165                17,325
/ Probably engineer, architect, cereal and cotton seed qpecialists.
_eOne ce l  pacialiet in  _        Pen3ab and  1aind;on  cotton specialist sbared.
Om each in   JaJb and Sind.



AM=IC 7
PAKISTA
am PIOJIOT
Te@    3 Aeiptsece m  Trini
Costs of Traizil
gait                                                                *o       For
0oeti/  Year 1         ,,!ar 2                             2oar 3i g  Zhauqcs
a. _       _      _       _        _      _       __ 
Cororations
Managing Directors            Mana  mthm   12,500    8  100,000            --              -       8    l00,000   90       90,000
General Managers (pa)                      12,500           -     12    150,000   12   150,000   24    300,000   90    270,000
Plant Superintendmn            "   "        6,ooo                 16      96,ooo   16    96,000   36    192,000   90    172,800
Farm Manar                          "      12,500          -      36    450,000            -      36   1450,000  90    405,000
Production Advisorl/           "   "       12,500           -     24    300                       24    300°    90    270,000
Subtotal -                                              100,000          996,000        246,000        1,342,000       1,207,800
Quality Control
Director-Certification Ageny        "      12,500    6   75,000            -               -       6      75,000   90     67,500
Director4egistation                        12,500    6    75,000    6     75,000           -      12    150,000   90    135,000
Senior Seed Anayt                          12,500          -       6      75,000           -       6      75,000   90     67,500
Senior Field Inapector                     12,500          -       6      75,000           -       6      75,0O0   90     67,500
Pout Control Trials Officer    7   U       12,500          -               -        6    75,000    6      75,000   90     67,500
Seed Pathologist               n   U       12,500          -               -        6    75,000    6      ?5,000   90     67,500
Senior Certification Officers  n   U       12,500          -      2i;    300,000           -      24    300,000   90    270,000
Certification Officrs for
Potato and Vegetables        n   U       12,500           -     12    150,000   12  150,000   24    30° 000  90    270,
Subtotal -                                              350,000          675,ooo        300,000        1,125,000       1,012,500
Pilot Projects
Asaistant Project Directors -
Potatoes                     n   U       12,500   18  225,000            _-                     10    225,000   90    202,500
Assistant Project Director -
Vegetables                   n   n       12,500   6    75,000            -               -       6      75.ooo  90      67,5ao
Subtotal -                                               30000300000                                                     270,000
TOTAL TRADiNG COStS                                                      I l,000                         2.767.000
I/ Includes travel.
2/ Comld be trained in India, henoe lower costs assesment.
T/ Three froa Punjab, one froa Sind.






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
SCHEDULE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES
z
0
o < Z         RESPONSIBLE
TYPE OF CONSULTANT                       A     RYEAR I                        YEAR 2           YEAR 3            YEAR 1            YEAR 
_ z                                                                                                  .
SEED PRODUCTION SPECIALIST     2    leach) CORPORATIONS                           E                             1111
PROCESSING PLANT             Group   15   CORPORATIONS        E            I                I
ADVISORY SERVICES
SEED PROCESSING SPECIALISTS    3    (each)  CORPORATIONS
FIELD INSPECTION SPECIALIST    1      36   NSCA                         '
SEED ANALYSIS AND              1      36   NSCA               E|III-III
CERTIFICATION SPECIALIST                                                            ___l_________
VEGETABLE SEED                 1     54   PILOT PROJECT                     __ ._::_._. _=
PRODUCTION SPECIALIST
VEGETABLE SEED                 1     24   PILOT PROJECT           .
PROCESSING SPECIALIST
POTATO SEED                    1      54   PILOT PROJECT =....._ .
PRODUCTION SPECIALIST                                                    l                 l
ENGINEERING SERVICES         Group   30     ALL PARTI-                      _ X_,.i
CIPATING
AGENCIES                  ..)
E3VISITING CONSULTANTS SERVING INTERMITTENTLY.                     RESIDENT CONSULTANT IN CONTINUOUS SERVICES                                      '
World Bank - 15274






ANNIY 8
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SE8D POJ1CT
ProJeet CostsxSunur
kRa 'OoOr
Forei-= txchangs
Year 1    Year 2        Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total       %-       Total
SEED CORPORATIONS
Corporation fanms                -         3,343        5,013         -           -         8,356       50       4,187
Processing equipent              -        16,951       40,249      22,233         -        79,433       73      57,706
Buildings and storage            -         6,302       15,915       9,690         -        31,907       20       6,296
Vehicles                         -         1,503        2,539         424         -         4,466       46       2,077
Working capital                  _           -         23.448      57,915      34.113     115,476       -          -
Subtotal                         -        28,099       87,164      90,262      34,113     239,638               70,266
SEED GROWERS' FAMIS
Tractors                         -         6,462       12,925       6,463         -        25,850       80      20,680
Implements                       -         3,687        7,375       3,687         -        14,749       61       9,057
Tubewells                        -         5,875       11,750       5,875         -        23,500       75      17,625
Land development                 -         5,757       11,515       5,758         -        23,030       10       2,303
Drilling rigs and spares         -        10.000         -           -           _         10,000      100      10.000
Subtotal                         -        31,781       43,565      21,783         _        97,129               59,665
QUALITY CONTROL
Registration Agency               13         238          496         147         147       1,041       27         282
Certification Agency             305       1,610        3,253       1,490       1.299       7,957       23       1,802
Subtotal                         318       1,848        3,749       1,637       1,446       8,998                2,084
MESEARCH AND
PILOT FEMJETS
Research equipment                -        3,346         -           _            _         3,346       85       2,837
Vegetable pilot project           21         772          657        _                      1,450       38         553
Potato pilot project              55       3,891        5,617         915         929      11,407       31       3,522
Subtotal                          76       8,009        6,274         915         929      16,203                6,912.
TBCHIGCAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINING
Technical assistance           3,425       4,740        6,540       3,600       2,800      21,165       82      17,325
Training                         550       1,671          546        -            _         2,767       91       2,520
Subtotal                       4,035       6,411        7,086       3,600       2,800      23,932               19,845
BASE COST ESTIDATE             4,429      76,148      147,838     118,197      39,288     385,900       41     158,772
Physical contingencies           -         3,069        6,359       3,192         -        12,620                7,169
Price contingencies              621      22,417      61,261       54.716      22.001     161.016               58,375
TOTAL COSTS                    5,050     101,634      215,458     176,105      61,289     559,536       40     2 36



ANNEX 8
P AKI STAN                                      Table 2
SEEI) PROJECT
Project Costs: Seed Corporations Y
(Rs '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total        %       Total
PUNJAB
Corporation farms                 -         2,507       3,760        -           -        6,267       50        3,139
Processing equipment              -         9,465      29,019      22,233        -        60,717       73      44,354
Building and storage              -         3,708      12,023       9,690        -        25,421       20       5,297
Vehicles                          -         1,042       1,846         424        -         3,312      46        1,539
Working capital                   _- _                             46,575      34,113    96,576         -        -
Sub-total                         -        16,722      62,536      78,922      34,113   192,293                54,329
SIND
Corporation farm                  -            836      1,253        -           -         2,089      50        1,048
Processing equipment              -         7,486      11,230        -           -        18,716       72      13,352
Building and storage              -         2,594       3,892        -           -         6,486      15          999
Vehicles                          -           461         693        -           -         1,154      47          538
Working capital                   -           -          7,56       L,30        ' -       18,900        -        -
Sub-total                         -        11,377      24,628      11,340        -       47,345                15,937
ALL PAKISTAN
Corporation farms                 -         3,343       5,013        -           -         8,356       5C       4,187
Processing equipment              -        16,951      40,249      22,233        -        79,433       73      57,706
Building and storage              -         6,302      15,915       9,690        -        31,907       20       6,296
Ver,icles                         -         1,503       2,539         424        -         4,466      46        2,077
Working capital                   -           -        23,h48      57,915      34,113   115,476         -        -
BASE COST ESTIMATE                -        28,099      87,164      90,262      34,113   239,638        29      70,266
Physical contingencies         -         2,660       6,118       3,192        -       11,970                 6,819
Price cozitingencies           -         8,661      36,258      40,042      19,103   104,064                28,457
TOTAL COSTS                       -        39,420    129,540    133,496        53,216   355,672        30     105,542
1/  Investment costs for the Corporation farms are given in Annex 3, Table 5.  Investment costs for
processing equipment,. building and storage and vehicles are built up from the costs in Annex 4,
Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5. The working capital represents the yearly increment in the stock of unprocessed
cereal seeds; its value was computed in accord with Annex 4, Appendix   , paras 2 and 3.  (Since storage
of cereal seed and cotton seed overlap for two months only, the value of cotton seed was not costed
as part of the working capital).



ANNEN 8
Table 3
PAISTAlN
S3m  PRO.BOCT
Project Costa: Develont of Seed Growers' Farms,"'
(Rs '000)
Foreizn lgchangze
Year 1    Year 2    Tear 3    Iear 4    Year 5         Total              Total
PUNJAB
Tractors                            -        5,500     11,000     5,500        -        22,000      80    17,600
Implements                          -        3,138     6,276      3,138        -        12,552      61      7,707
Tubewells                           -        5,000     10,000     5,000        -        20,000      75    15,000
Land developent                     -        4,900     9,800      4,900        -        19,600      10      1,960
Drilling rigs and spare parts       -        5,000        -         -          -         5,000     100      5.000
Subtotal                            -       23,538     3bt076    18,538        -        79,152             47,267
SIND
Tractors                            -          962      1,925       963        -         3,850      80      3,080
Implements                          -          549      2,099       549        -         2,197      61      1,350
Tubewells                           -          875      2,750       875        -         3,500      75      2,625
Land developsent                    -          857      2,715       858        -         3,430      10        343
Drilling rigs and spare parts       -          000 -           -               -         5,000     100      5,000
Subtotal                            -        8,243     6,489      3,245        -        17,977             12,398
ALL PAKISTAN
Tractors                            -        6,462     12,925     6,463        -        25,850      80    20,680
Implements                          -        3,687      7,375     3,687        -        1i4,749     61      9,057
Tubewells                           -        5,875    11,750      5,875        -        23,500      75    17,625
Land development                    -        5,757    11,515      5,758        -        23,030      10      2,303
Drilling rigs and spare parts       -       10,000        -          -         -        10.000     100    1
BASE COST ESTISTE                   -       31,781    43,565     21,783        -        97,129      61    59,665
Physical contingencies              -          -          -         -          -          -
Price contingencies a                        8,953    18,406    11,905         -        39,264             20,001
TOTAL COSTS                         -A.731            61.971     33,688        -       136,393      58    79.666
1J/ Assmptions and unit coets for developjent of the seed growers' farms are given in Annex 3, paras. 13 to 20 and
Tables 1, 2 and 3. Out of 1,880 seed growers, 1,600 will be located in Pu?Jab, 280 in Sind.



ANNEX 8
Table 4
PAKSTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Cosi.  qu ty Control
Foreign lxchang
Tear 1   Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Total                _T.a
REGISTRATION AGENCY-
Capital Costs
Office and laboratory buildings            -          76         108            -           -          184       19          35
Office equipment                            -           -         36            -           -           36       20           7
Laboratory equipment                       -           -          55            -           -           55       85          _7
Field equipment                            -           -         150           -            -         150        70         _05
Vehicles                                   -          50            -           -           -           50       50          25
Subtotal                                      -        126         349            -           -          475                  219
Operating Costs
Staff salaries and allowances             13          75          75          75           75          313        -           -
Other operating costs                      -          37          72          72           72          253       25          63
Subtotal                                    13         112         147         147          17           566                   63
Total                                       13         238         496          147         147        1.041                  282
CERTIFICATION AGENCTI/
Capital Costs
Office and laboratory buildings             -        818         817            -           -        1,635       14         234
Office equipnent                           -                     342            -           -          342       20          68
Laboratory equipment                       -           -         540            -           -          540       85         459
Field equipnent                             -           -        150            -           -          150       70         105
Vehicles                                 150         200         300          200           -          850       50         425
Subtotal                                   150       1,018       2,149          200           -        3,517                1,291
Operating Costs
Staff salaries and allowances             49         284         515         613         620         2,081        -           -
Other operating costs                    106         308         58!9        677         679         2.359       12         511
Subtotal                                   155         592       1.104       1,290        1,299        4,440                  511
Total                                       305      1,610       3,253       1,490        1,299        7,957               1,802
Base Cost Estimate                         318       1,848       3,749       1,637        1,446        8,998       23       2,084
Physical contingencies                     -          45         }10            -           -          155                   53
Price contingencies                       45         604       1,555         737         810        3,751                  827
TOTAL COSTS                                363                   5414        2,374       2,256        12,904       23      2,964
1/  See Annex 5, Table 1
2/ See Annex 5, Table 2



ANXM 8
Table 5
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJICT
ProJect Costs: Research and Pilot Projectal/
(Rs '000)
Foroign -xobang
Tear 1   Year 2       Year 3     Year 4    Year 5         Total               Total
PUNJAB
Research equipment             -       1,212         -          -           -         1,212       85      1,023
Potato pilot projeci/
Capital costs                -       2,932       1,955         -          -         4,887      143      2,124
Operating oosts             47       __4         3,190        768         776       5,185       22        II13
Subtotal                      47       4,548       5,145        768         776      11,284               4,290
SIND
Research equipment            _        1.112         _          _          _          1,112       85
Subtotal                       -       1,112         -          -           -         1,112                 9145
BALUCHISTAN
Vegetable project
Capital costs               _          650         433        -           -         1,083       45        492
Operating costa             21         122         224        -           -            367      16         61
Potato project:
Capital zosts                -         499         332        -           -            831      23         194
Operating costs              8          56         140        147         153          504      12         61
Subtotal                      29       1,327       1,129        147         153       9,785                 808
NWFP-1
Research equipment            _        1,022         _          -           -         1,022       85         869
Subtotal                       -       1,022         -          -           -         1,022                  869
ALL PAKISTAN
Research equipment             -       3,346         -          _           _         3,346       85      2,837
Vegetable pilot project       21         772         657        -           -         1,450       38        553
Potato pilot project          55       3,891       5,617        915         929      11,407       31      3A22
BASE COST ESTIKATE              76       8,009       6,274        915         929      16,203       43      6,912
Physical contingencies         -         364         131        -           -            495                297
Price contingencies           11       2,596       2.562        412         520       6,101               2.595
TOTAL COSTS                   87      10,969       8,97       11327           9       22,799      43      9,804
1/ See Annex 6, Tables 1, 3, 4, 8 and 9.
2/ The NWFP component of the pilot project has been included in tha cost of the pilot project for Punjab
since it will be rum by the Department of Agricultare of this prz*ince.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Costs: Technical Assistance and Trainingl/
(Rs '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5        Total       %7 Total
CORPORATIONS
Technical Assistance      1,305      1,635     3,435      2,100     1,800      10,275     81       8,325
Training                    100        996       246        -         -         1,342      90      1,208
Subtotal                  1,405     2,631      3,681      2,100     1,800      11,617              9,533
QUALITY CONTROL
Technical Assistance        900     1,200      1,200        300       -         3,600     80       2,880
Training                    150        675       300        -                   1,125     90       1,012
Subtotal                  1,050     1,875      1,500        300       -         4,725              3,892
PILOT PROJECTS
Technical Assistance      1,280      1,905     1,905      1,200     1,000       7,290     84       6,120
Training                    300        -         _          -         -           300      90        300
Subtotal                  1,580      1,905     1,905      1,200     1,000       7,590              6,420
ALL COMPONENTS
Technical Assistance      3,485     4,740      6,540      3,600     2,800      21,165             17,325
Training                    550      1,671       546                            2,767              2,520
BASE COST ESTIMATE          4,035      6,411     7,o86      3,600     2,800      23,932      83     19,845
Physical Contingencies      -          -         -          -         -          -                  -
Price Contingencies         565  1, 603 2,480 1,568                             7,836              6,495
TOTAL COSTS               4,60o      8,014       566      5,20         68      31,768      83     26,340        CC)
I/  See Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2.



ANNEX 8
Table 7
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Price Contingency (Percentage)
Price
Calendar                                             Accumulated   Contingency
Year      Inflation          Project Year           Inflation        Used
Equipment and Services
1975         12                     _                                  _
1976         10                    1                  14.51/          14
1977          8                    2                  24.8            25
1978          8                    3                  34.7            35
1979         8                    4                  45.5            45
1980          7                    5                  56.4            56
Civil Works
1975         20
1976                               1                   23./           23
1977         12                    2                  39.0            39
1978         12                    3                  55.7            56
1979         12                    4                   74.4           74
1980         10                    5                   93.6           94
Base:  April 1975
1/ 3/4 of 1975 Annual Inflation rate to bring prices from April 1975 to
January 1976 cumulated with 1/2 of 1976 Annual Inflation rate to bring
prices from January 1976 to July 1976 (the mid-point of Project Year 1).



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                 Disbursement                  Disbursement at
and Quarter                During the Quarter               end of Quarter
US $ '000                    US $ '000
FY 1977
1st                             100                           100
2nd                             200                           300
3rd                             500                           800
4th                             700                         1,500
FY 1978
1st                           1,000                         2,500
2nd                           1,500                         4,o000
3rd                           2,200                         6,200
4th                           2,500                         8,700
FY 1979
1st                           2,800                        11,500
2nd                           3,000                        14,5oo
3rd                           2,500                        17,000
4th                           2,000                        19,000
FY 1980
1st                           1,500                        20,500
2nd                           1,000                        21,500
3rd                             800                        22,300
4th                             300                        22,600
FY 1981
1st                             200                        22,800
2nd                             200                        23,000



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
ProJect Organization and Management
1.        The basis for development of the country's seed industry would be
defined in new seed legislation to be enacted by GOP. Seed industry policy
would be entrusted to the Provincial Seed Councils and the National Seed
Council created under the Provincial Seed Acts (Annex 5).
2.        Pre-basic seed would be produced at Provincial Research Institutes 1/
under the supervision of plant breeders. These Institutes would function as
at present under the Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
3.        Provincial Seed Corporations (para 5) would take over pre-basic
seed produced by the Research Institutes and multiply basic seed mainly on
Corporation owned farms and to a lesser extent through contract growers.
All further stages of seed multiplication would be under contract by pro-
gressive farmers registered as seed growers with the Corporations (para 8).
4.        The Provincial Research Institutes and the Seeds Corporations
would have, as deemed by them to be necessary, internal arrangements fox
variety trials, laboratory testing and general quality control. Addition-
ally an independent Seed Certification Agency (NSCA) established at national
level would monitor seed quality at all stages of multiplication, both in the
field and in the laboratory, and be responsible for final certification prior
to the marketing of processed seed (Annex 5).
Seed Corporations
5.        Supervision of seed multiplication, seed procurement, processing
and packaging would be undertaken by Seed Corporations one in Punjab and one
in Sind. They would be legally, financially, and operationally autonomous.
Their equity capital would be contributed by the respective Provincial Gov-
ernments. A Corporation Board would be responsible for business policy.
The Board would comprise one representative each from the Provincial Depart-
ments of Agriculture, Finance, Planning and Developmient; the Managing Direc-
tor of the Corporation who would be a permanent member of the Board; and at
least three other members including representatives of seed growers and dis-
tributors.
1/   Pakistan Cotton Control Committee (PCCC) also would undertake production
of pre-basic cotton seed on its Multan Station.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
6.        The Provincial Seed Corporations would be staffed and managed like
commercial corporate entities in the private sector. Each Corporation would
be headed by a Managing Director - the Chief Executive of the Corporation, who
would work within the policy guidelines set by the Board but otherwise have
full independence in all operational matters. The Managing Director would be
supported by four Executive Directors: Finance, Production, Marketing and
Processing.
7.        Personnel policies - recruitment, placement, promotion and motiva-
tion - followed by the Corporations would be in line with private sector
standards. In recruiting staff for the Corporations, particularly the
Directors and the senior executives, terms and conditions of employment
offered would be such as to attract the right caliber of persons. Govern-
ments recognize that it would not be possible to recruit local persons
suitably qualified and experienced in seed production and processing. The
posts of Production and Processing Directors would, therefore, be filled
initially by specialists to be employed under the technical assistance
provided for the project to function as Executive Assistants to the Managing
Director. Suitably qualified local candidates would understudy these
specialists so that the most competent of them could assume charge of the
respective departments when the specialists complete their assigments
(Annex 7).
8.        The responsibilities entrusted to the Executive Directors would
be as follows:
Managing Director - in addition to being chief executive he would
be in charge of coordination, price setting, and of general adminis-
tration including personnel management, legal matters and general
services;
Production Director - management of Corporation farms, arranging
contracts with registered growers, extension services to registered
seed growers, seed procurement and quality control;
Processing Director - management of processing plants, certification,
packaging and storage;
Marketing Director - market research, publicity and sales promotion,
and programming of seed distribution;
Finance Director - budgetary control and funds management, financial
accounting, cost accounting, computation of seed prices, inventory
control, management information and internal auditing.
TOR for the Managing Director and other Executive Directors are given in
Appendix I. A Corporation organigram is given in the Chart 1. Staff
requirements are given in Table 1.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Seed Multiplication by Contract Growers
9.        Multiplication of all certified seed and some basic seed would be
entrusted to progressive farmers registered with the Corporations (Annex 3).
The Production Department in each Corporation would be staffed with techni-
cally qualified and experienced personnel to carry out the following functions:
selection of progressive farmers for registration as contract growers;
assisting registered growers in preparing their farm development
plans and loan applications to banks;
liaison with the Provincial Agricultural Engineering Departments and
private contractors who would undertake land development works for
the growers;
assisting growers in the supervision of the farm development;
special extension services to growers; and
helping growers in procurement of farm equipment, supplies and
services.
10.       Most of the seed growers registered with the Corporation would
require long-term credit to finance tractors and farm implements, tubewells
for supplementary irrigation, land levelling and improvement of water courses.
Such long-term credit needs would be provided by selected local banks (Annex
11). When recommending a seed grower's loan application to a bank, the
Corporation would also undertake to pay over to the bank the purchase price
of the seed procured from him. As prices paid by the Corporation for the seed
would be 16% to 20% higher than prevailing market prices loan default would
be minimal. However, the Corporations would not engage in credit management
operations which are best handled by existing credit institutions specialized
in such activities. Thus although credit services would be based on a tri-
partite agreement between the grower, the bank and the Corporation all credit
risks and credit management workload would be borne by the bank - the
Corporation functioning only as a collecting agent of the lending bank.
Seed Procurement
11.       The Corporation would take from the grower all crop which had passed
field inspection as soon as possible after harvest. The National Seed
Certification Agency would analyse samples to determine the proportion of
the crop which would pass certification standards.   Payment for seed of
certified quality would be at a fixed premium above ruling market price at
the agreed date of sale. Rejected crop would be accepted at market price
without addition of any premium. The Corporation would arrange to ascertain
and make available to seed growers prevailing market prices which would
form the basis for such payments (Annex 12, paras 1 through 4).



ANNEX 10
Page 4
erocessing and Marketing
The Processing Department -o-ld be reo'  i'1e for the t. :;crt
of seed from farms and private ginneries to the processing plants. Facilities
would be provided at each plant site for seed processing, packaging, and
storage pending delivery to distributors (Annex 4).
13.       Establishing a market for quality seed would require considerable
effort to regain farmer confidence. Market research, sales promotion and
publicity would therefore be undertaken by the Corporations though retail
sales would be entrusted to distributors appointed by them. These would
include both public sector organizations, such as PADSC, SASO and ADA (NWFP)
and private sector merchants (Annex 12). The retail prices to the farmer
would be fixed by the Seed Corporations, and the distributors would work
on the basis of a mutually agreed payment comprising handling charges and
sales commission.
Financial Control, Accounts and Audit
14.       The Corporation would establish an accounting system incorporating
modern financial and cost control procedures, and an effective management
information flow and feedback. Internal control in the Corporation would
be strengthened by an Internal Audit Division.
15.       Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed for each
Corporation to carry out comprehensive annual audits following generally ac-
cepted professional standards. The auditors would, on completion of the
auditors, submit both short-form and long-form reports as set out in guide-
lines in Appendix 2.
Pilot Projects
16.       Special units would be set up within the existing Departments of
Agriculture in Punjab and Baluchistan to manage the vegetable and potato pilot
project operations (Annex 6).
Project Coordination
17.       A Seed Project Coordination Committee, comprising a representative
each from the Federal Ministries of Agriculture and Planning and Finance,
Provincial Governments and Seed Corporations, established at national level
would coordinate project activities. This Committee would be entrusted with
specific responsibilities as follows:
(a) recruitment of Technical Assistance specialists for the
Corporations, NSCA and Pilot Project operations;
(b)  coordinate project procurement financed under IDA credit;



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(c) liaison with Provincial Governments, Seed Corporations,
Federal Government, banks and national institutions;
(d) liaison with international institutions including IDA;
(e) review of project progress; and
(f) IDA disbursements.
18.       The Committee would be supported by an executive secretariat
headed by a senior officer. The specialists and executives appointed for the
Provincial Seed Corporations and Pilot Project operations would help in the
preparation of procurement specifications, in bid evaluations and in other
matters requiring technical skills. An organigram for the Committee is at
Chart 2.
19.       Project Implementation Schedule. Phasing of project implementation
activities is shown in Charts 3, 4 and 5.
20.       Costs.  Investment and overhead costs related to the Seed Corpora-
tion headquarters and administrative offices are given in Tables 2 and 3.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Seed Corporation
Managing Director
1.        The Managing Director of the Seed Corporation would:
be a full-time employee of the Corporation and
function as its chief executive;
be responsible and report direct to the Corporation Board;
serve as a permanent member of the Corporation Board;
coordinate the responsibilities of other Executive Directors:
Production, Processing, Marketing and Finance Directors;
be responsible for price setting, personnel management, legal
affairs and general administration of the Corporation;
implement the policy decisions of the Corporation Board;
present to the Board -
(i) the Corporation's draft annual budget not later
than three months prior to the financial year
commencement;
(ii) Corporation's draft annual accounts together with
his own annual progress report not later than
two months after the end of each financial year;
(iii) audited annual accounts and audit report together
with his comments thereon not later than four
months after the end of each financial year; and
(iv) quarterly progress report on the Corporation's
activities not later than one month after the
end of each quarter.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 2
Qualifications Required
be not less 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
have a University Degree or equivalent in agriculture,
engineering, economics, business administration or
finance and accounting;
have not less than ten years experience in business management
or public administration of which he should have served
a minimum of five years in the capacity of chief executive
of a recognized agricultural, industrial or commercial
institution;
be experienced in personnel management; and
be able to undertake frequent travel within the project area.
2.   Production Director
The Production Director would:
be responsible, and report direct, to the Managing Director;
work in close cooperation with the Processing, Marketing and
Finance Directors and the Secretary of the Corporation;
be responsible for:
Corporation farm development and operations,
seed multiplication under contract,
Production Department budgets,
liaison with Research Institutes and Seed
Certification Agency,
training of field staff,
special extension services to registered seed
growers;
seed procurement, and
seed quality control.
Qualifications Required
be not less than 35 and not more than 50 years of age;
have a University Degree in Agriculture;
have not less than ten years experience in agriculture and
farm management with at least three years at the level
of Manager or Director;



ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 3
have experience in farm development, machinery utilization,
budget preparation, work planning, field cost records
and staff training; and
be able to undertake frequent travel to project areas
visiting Research Institutes, Corporation farms,
contract growers and their farms.
3.   Processing Director
The Processing Director would:
be responsible, and report direct, to the Managing Director;
work in close cooperation with the Production, Marketing and
Finance Directors and with the Corporation Secretary;
be responsible for -
all processing plant construction, equipment and
operations;
workshops and laboratories;
seed transport;
seed storage pending delivery to distributors;
training of factory and workshop staff; and
Processing Department budgets.
Qualifications Required
be not less than 35 and not more than 50 years of age;
have a University Degree or equivalent in mechanical or
production engineering;
have not less than ten years experience in factory management
with at least three years at the level of Factory Manager,
preferably in agro-industry;
have experience in machinery maintenance, production control,
work planning, budget preparation, industrial cost records
and training of factory staff; and
be able to undertake frequent travel to processing plants,
workshops and farm sites in the project area.



ANNEX 10
Apppendix 1
Page 4
4. Marketing Director
The Marketing Director would:
be responsible, and report direct, to the M4anaging Director;
work in close cooperation with the Production, Processing
and Finance Directors and with the Secretary of the
Corporation;
be responsible for:
market research;
marketing techniques;
advertiuing and publicity;
sales promotions;
liaison with distributors;
after sales searvice;
sales budgets; and
staff training.
Qualifications Required
be not less than 35 and not more than 50 years of age;
have a Uliversity Degree;
have not less than ten years experience in marketing of which
a minimum of five years should have been as Manager or
Director in charge of marketing, preferably in agro-
industrial business; and
have experience in marketing including: market research,
marketing methods, advertising and publicity, sales
promotion, distribution, and staff training.
5. Finance Director
The Finance Director would:
be responsible, and report direct, to the Managing Director;
work in close cooperation with the Production, Processing and
Marketing Directors and with the Corporation Secretary;
be responsible for:
preparation of the cash budget;
coordinating department budgets;
funds management;



AEX 10
Appendix 1
Page 5
financial and cost accounting and controls;
seed price computations;
internal control including inventory control;
internal audit;
management information, training of accounting and
internal audit staff;
annual accounts and quarterly progress reports; and
liaison with independent auditors.
Qualifications Required
be not less than 35 and not more than 55 years of age;
be a member of a recognized professional accountancy institute
e.g., Institute of Chartered Accountants or Certified
Public Accountants - preferably with a university degree
or equivalent in business administrationleconomics or
cost/industrial accounting;
have at least ten years post-qualification experience in
financial and management accounting of which at least
three years gained from working in a large, preferably
agro-industrial, company;
have experience in budgetary control, costing, organization
and methods, internal auditing, and staff training;
have experience in procurement procedures and inventory
management; and
be able to travel frequently to farms and processing plants
in the project area.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Guidelines for Independent Auditors
1.        The independent auditors of the Seed Corporation should submit
both short-form and long-form reports.
2.        These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Board
and copied to the Managing Director.
3.        When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors in the
opinion paragraph, the short-form report should be modified in such a way
as to make clear the nature of the qualification. It should refer spe-
cifically to the subject of the qualification and of the effect on the
financial position and results of operations, if reasonably determinable.
4.        Generally accepted auditing standards include, in addition to
adherence to accounting principles which are generally accepted, standards
of preparation, standards of field and factory records, standards of super-
vision, review, reporting and disclosure. The scope of the auditor's
examination should be sufficient to enable him to express the opinion
described above. All of these standards are well-known to accountants in
professional audit practice.
5.        In case generally accepted auditing standards could not be
followed, the auditors should expressly state so, indicating specifically
the circumstances.
6.        Verification of assets and liabilities should cover:
cash and bank balances;
seed stocks;
other inventories; and
fixed assets - vehicles; field, factory, workshop,
laboratory and office equIpment.
Verification should include physical and test checks; examination of
records and expenditure; and obtaining of certificates independently from
banks and other custodians of assets, contractors, suppliers, debtors and
creditors.
7.        The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report.
Appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and comments) of
items in the various certified financial statements should be included
in the long-form report.



ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
Page 2
8.        Certified statements would include:
a balance sheet for the Seed Corporation;
profit and loss account for the Seed Corporation;
profit and loss statement for each farm, processing
plant or other unit of operation;
sources and application of funds;
fixed assets showing additions, disposals, depreciation
and balance sheet values;
non-recurring expenses;
miscellaneous income and expenditure; and
age classification of debtors and creditors.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for
the preceeding years.
9.        Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would
include:
implementation of recommendations made in previous
year;
management and organization;
budgetary control;
unit costs;
production and prices;
financial and field controls;
payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
inventory control and stock levels;
adherence to public accounting standards;
efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position of the Seed Corporation.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
PAK ISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Staffing at the Seed Corporation Head Quarters
Annual Salar  Range           Punjab           Sind
(Rs)
Executive Directors
Managing Director                              48,000  -  60,000                1               1
Production Director )
Processing Director  )                         42,000  -  54,000                4               3
Marketing Director )
Finance Director      )
Confidential Stenotypist                        9,000  -  12,000                3               2
Administration Department
Corporation Secretary         )
Personnel Manager             )                18,000  -  24,000                3               2
General Services Assistance )
Clerks/Typists                                  3,000       6,000               3               2
Production Department
Corporation Farms                              18,000      24,000               2               1
Seed Procurement  )                            18,000     24,000                3
Contract Growing )
Farm Advisory Service                          12,000      18,000              32               6
Clerks/Typists                                  3,000       6,000               3               1
Processing Department
Transport Manager )                            12,000      18,000               2
Stores Manager    )
Clerks/Typists                                  3,000      6,000                3               1
Marketing Department
Market Research Manager      )
Sales Promotion Manager      )                 18,000     24,000                3               1
Sales Distribution Manager )
Assistants                                     12,000      18,000               -2
Clerks/Typists                                  3,000       6,000               4               3
Accounts Department
Financial Accountant                           30,000  -  42,000                1               1
Cost Accountant                                24,000      30,000               1               1
Assistants                                     18,000      24,000               2
Clerks/Typists                                  4,500       7,500               8               5
Internal Audit
Chief Internal Audits                          24,000      30,000               1               1
Assistants                                     12,000      18,000               3               2
Clerks/Typists                                  4,500       7,500               4               3
General
Peons/Messengers                                1,200       1,800              12               6
Drivers                                         1,500       2,500              45              16



ANNEU 10
Table 2
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Operating Costs of the Seed Corporation Head Quarters
(Rs '000)
Pumjab            Sind
Personnel Salariesl/                    1,80?              930
Telephone                                 120               80
Electricity and Water                       18               6
Building Maintenance                        24              12
Security and Cleaning                       24              12
Building Rates y4d Insurance                12               6
Vehicle Running-'                         600              250
Postage and Telegrams                       30              15
Travelling                                  60              30
Printing and Stationery                   100               60
Audit Fees                                 100              60
Subtotal                              2,895            1,461
Contingency (2c%)                         579              292
TOTAL                3.474           1L753
1/ The salaries have been worked out according to the staffing
pattern given in Annex 10, Table 1. In addition to the
basic salaries, 40C has been included for allowances.
2/ Vehicles ranning camputed in the following basis:
4-wheel drive     18,000 miles x Rs 0.60/mile
+10% of capital cost for maintenance
Motor car          12,000 miles x Rs 0.40/mile
+l(C of capital cost for maintenance
(See Table 3, Annex 10 for cost and number of vehicles).



ANNEX 10
Tab'le 3
PAKISTAN
SEE  PROJECT
Seed Corporationst: Qaeral Buildings, Vehicles and Equipment
Unit    Number   Total    Foreign   Foreign        Life
Cost     of        Cost   Exchange  Exchange  Expectanc
Rs '000   UZAits  Rs '000      %       'Rs '000    Years
PUNJAB
Buildin 
Offices (sq. ft.)                 .100     8,100      810      15          120        20
ControUed environment store
(sq. ft.)                      .200       300       60      30          18         20
House of managing director
(2,50O sq. ft.)                 150         1     150       15          22         20
House of directors
(2,000 sq. ft.)                 120         4     480       15          72         20
3ubtotal                                        1-500                    2
Vehicles and Equipment
4-wheel drive                       50        34   1,700       50          85%)        5
Cars                                qo        15      750      50          375         5
Cooling end dehumidifying
equipment                        30         1       30      85           25        10
Basic seed cleaning equipment      200         1      200      95          190        20
Subtotal                                         2,680              1___0
OTAL PUNJAB                                      _,8o172
Buildiag
Offices (sq. ft.)                 .100     3,800      380      15           57        20
Controlled environment store
(sq. ft.)                      .200       200      40       30          12         20
House of managing director
(2,500 sq. ft.)                    150         1      150      15           22        20
House of directors
(2,000 sq. ft.)                    120         3      360      15           54        20
Subtotal                                   930                  145
Vehicles and Equipment
4-wheel drive                       50          6     300-    50           150          5
Cars                                50        10      500      50          250         5
Cooling and dehumidifying
equipment                        20         1       20      85           17        10
Basic seed cleaning equipment      200         1      200      95          190        20
Subtotal                                         1,020                  607
TOTAL SIND                                       1,950                    2






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Organization Chart - Seed Corporations
BOARD
OF
[    DIRECTORS
ES 5_
MANAGING DIRECTOR)
r PRODUCTION          rPROCESSiNG          ..................  ...............  MARKETING      |            FINANCE
DIRECTOR         ....     DIRECTOR                        ................ ......,,....... DIRECTOR  ..   DIRECTOR
|CORPORATION
.        |   ~~~SECRETARY                   
I CORPORATION                                                                                                  I LN    ESNE     AK       NTEHNAL |
FARMS                  n      PRTOS_                   MNGMNT   l                   EERH_                      AUDITOR
CONTRACT                     sEED                .I     LEGAL &      l             ALES                    -FINANCIAL
GROWING                      TRANSPORT                   GENERAL                   H  POMOTIO,N               ACCOUNTING
J   SEED   l      SEED         l     X      PUEL~~~      ~~IC          SALES AN                   OT      
n   PROCUREMENT   l  n  STORAGE  l   7      RELTIONS                        B  ITRIETI ON        ACOUNTING                 
tS O






ANNEX 10
Chart 2
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Organization Chart - Project Coordination Committee
FEDERAL MINISTRY
OF
AGRICULTURE
COORDINATION
COMMITTEE
CHIEF EXECUTiVE
AND
SECRETARY
ADMINISTRATIVE                      STEOTYPIST                              ACCOUNTS
ASrTR   ASSISTANT
;  PROCUREMENT    |IPAYMENTS N 
I EQUIPMENT      IIREIMBURSEET 
_TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE1                             IDAL
-  RECRUITMENT ETC.   I                             ISBURSENT      r
|LAISON WITH       I|PROJECT ACCUT 
OJECT PARTICIPANTS I!AND AUDITr
I LIAISON WITH     II                               PROGRES 
_    IDA AND OVTS.                                 REPORT_
World Bank-9821






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                                                    ClANN   lo
Activities Related to Seed Corporations and Research Institutes
MAIN ACTIVITIES                         AUfTfORITGY               YEAR I                     YEAR 2                     YEAR 3                     YEAR 4                     YEAR 5
Arransff of0 fc com,odatopn and *fwtt rapport
sTaIl for SPCC                                   SPCC               10i110
F-all-i  Send Prolfct Erogram OIII all pernicipetirg                                                                           NSC            NItional Saed Co.-
agonoin,                                         SPCC                                                                        NSCA    -     National Snd Certlicatioo Ag.EcY
Nagotiat. and asog TA co-tt -tS iconCultotidtt                                                                                 PDA            P-oPiltiPr Doct EntitY witnin the ProA mcia Oparoenes at Aqrfoulrir
wah IDA and aPPoit voaicltaota                   SPCC                                                                      PCORP    .      Provinvi t dEatd CoPorenmAona
FinaIZa lendi-g arrenieamrns borneo GOP. SdP                                                                                   SPCC           Seed Prqlet Coordin-t-on C.t-nIta.
and par c.iaatinaf bosnk                          SPCC                                                                      SRA      -      Sand Rag-cctinc Ag-eCy
TA             TachnIca  A-aaaotColal4    r
Co-ntiu-  epenlol prvoaaring ond stwagh f-ilti_t                                                                                               Contiooing ActVity
for oa-bswec fd                                  R.sech Inatunea              _      _                                        _                                             - _
Prepare spficatio. and pro-re pm--Sa sced
Pqud- ent Rpsearch Ina-tes    C.,
Produce pro-ral sned                                Rstecrc  loninueJ aan      _1        oro                 
Arrange oiiica accoatnncition, recruit Ecaetionil                                                                                          
Dir-ntor, aCO end ntial apo-nt ttfo Icr CORP     CORP
Prepara CORP 1ana -rru-tmant and erasnieg
orogesare                                        CORP                       10000 0
Tran-fer toad iarns ro CORP                         PDA and SPCC
Select Proc-log plant rtit and anguiro laod righn   CORP and TA
Pre.ar. plan ..,    ta and tendat documnnt           CORP Ond TA                      b-h                    2   .......
Clear plant egutotnant tondor a -tuman  nth I DA,                                         itt batch                2nd ban!h
ad.erta and ... . Ct  Ssd.                       SPCC
Ecaluano bitd  cleat wh IOA and ated bW                                                               t b                       t bai
for P-ant aquiPment                              SPCC. CORP and TA                                                                xf,
R.coica and Wivco plant egap- ot no titan           SPCC and CORP                                  7     |         st etcn  l .              nd   sh           |
Conniruct plant bu,lding                            CORP                                                           1'5  W,.h                                 2rd
Inotail plmt euipetnat                             CORP                                                                     1-1 b.th                  27d WI,hi
Comm-nce proc-Ntg of c,fified 5eed Ilint batch                                                                                      I  C                 Cotton
ot proceting otam-1                              CORP
P,eacaranaoioar taeoa  danunl-- ts - ath IDA. prooctu                                                    |
and tecti-o drilling tras                        PDA and SPCC               i
Select acd regitter wted grooea. atosst in praparing                                                                                I                              
farm  traetmeetn pl-ns and lose opplcatohn-      CORP
1 Procure iracrort and farm agatften- p I- r I   gro-r  CORP
Prtpoto spec fications -fr CORP farm rracor and
-4-urltnt                                        CORP
| Procure irtono  and  fgupmaet  tr CORP f-armn     CORP
D-eyiop CORP tarmt for ba.e v-n pruducn-on          CORP
l                                                      l      l     I    .        l      l     l      l      l      l     l      l      l      l     l             l      l     l      l~~Creal  ottc
Produce btoic 5ed from or-bas.o.te.                 CORP                                       SEEN
DOnion basic fld to, suprvise multiolbtiotyii .                                                                                l
end orocuts seed I_t Srowen                       CORP                                            -      -                                 citan
WvnId B.. k   15276






PAKISTAN                                                                                      S3710
SEED PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Actiti,s PRdeted to Oality Control and Pilot Proje
MAIN ACTIVITIES                   RESPONSIBLE               YEAR 1                      YEAR 2                     YEAR 3                      YEAR 4                      YEAR 5
Ettablith SRA                                       NSCISPCC                                                                NSC            Nanonal Satd Counrd
NSCA           Notional Sted Crtrfi.-tton AgencV
Aopoint Dirarcmn of SRA and NSCA                    NSCINSCA                                                                POA            Protir-cial O jte rmintt of Agri4ulr,re
PPE            Pilot ProWect Entity eathii the Prom-mia DOpOrmtent, of AgrBtultoro
A,rrng.t tptroryv ,oco,eodaom. recruit .i,-.t                                                                               CORP           Prottrri.l Sed Corson-tton
saff tliK noen eJtisosg lerilitiee               NSCA/SRA                                                                SPCC    -      Sted Prohtet Coodlaitmon Caohisrtt
SRA      *     Sed Rt gitration Agncy
Prepare long-tet. deoeflrntt piln                   NSCAISRA                                                                TA       -     Thfrocicl At-jiance Contultants
-4.            Cortinoing Activity
Slect rnd asoisire Iand for trial Plots. I gtOit iet
anal offic.                                      NSCAJVSRA
Prepa.re tpeificoron and tmnder dro ,&nt,n          NSCAISRA
Procore qoopm nt and tnehtdic                      NSCAJSRA
Denelop land. pr"Per. tenodr drocor,rnts for bouildng.i
contsouct boilinge                               NSCA/SRA
Coinntence staff rorndstntent and trmir 9           NSCAJSRA
Pre,psW. RlO. uodr td  it-atio                      NSCA/NSC
Cor.i bislic
Coormnene cerrifsoatroo operostiono                 NSCA
Re-nnit Asat ant Direc,tor for Pilot ProtnPI        SPCCIPOA
Pre dare antaIed onrk progroUn      l badge anId
fhnding for Pilot Procto                         PPE
Comm-e-  r-oroitmtnt ot .ff for Pilot Ptests        PPE
Select Pilot Proiect si-.and equi Irnd rigihtt     PPE/TA
parpe Pilot Project ago,p~nt uemfifottns arind
trod. doconteet                                  PPEITA
Clea toat dooantent nath I OA,  ..adta aod
eCteie bid.                                      SPCC/PPEJTA
EtralWte -sh bide, clear _th IDA and -ctrd bide     PPEISPCCITA
Re:e.ie and defitrt equohs,nt to Piot Protetq sites    SPCCIPPE
Con,otst,t balIdings for pilts and norme for Pilot
Prolects                                         PEITA
Imtitall eqaiptst fot Pilot Proijct plns            PPEITA
Assoant Project  Seed Certficatio
D |    i Dretogr         Of juficnion
Sand flot Protect taff for oVenet training         PPE/SPCC
Im-ort mother eeed for Pilot Proet                  PPEISPCC
Surny farni and roqtterr sed gr,ow   for cagPta       E e.                             Potto                                                                         Vegeleble
sod panamais                                     PPE
Estabr S ierith   tng chtann.. for egwetb  and potato
teed                                             PPE 9 5                             l     l      |            !              |      ]      \                   |                    i
CO,,,tne produt-  of -tW:O. ms,,iotm tttd           PFIE                  l      l      l      l     |       7                   ott
Potato ~       Put
Cotrithie,0 proootion of cgOnsiks a ed Pobtet ted   PPE
C oniteenot. mrtatrteg of ceetlid .nd potato teed   WE
Aalyne trial retuln *nd oprpre fia report an
getable end pottO seed                            WE                                                                        7        `7
World Snk - 15277






PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
PHASING OF SEED PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING
YEARS:                                   YEAR 1                       YEAR 2                        YEAR 3                        YEAR 4                         YEAR 5
QUARTERS:                       1st    2nd    3rd    4th    1st   2nd    3rd    4th    Ist    2nd    3rd    4th    1st   2nd    3rd             4th    1st    2nd    3rd    4th
COTTON:  Approved Seed
Certified Seed
Basic Seed
Pre-Basic Seed
WHEAT:   Cettitied Seed
Basic Seed
Pre-Basic Seed1-/
RICE:       Certified Seed
Basic Seed
Pre-Basic Seed
MAIZE       Certilied Seed
Basic Seed
Pre- Basic Seed           -_
I/ Wheat pre-hasic seed production) is critical and should cornrmerwe prior to Project Year 1                production period                processoing period
World Bank - 15275






ANNEX 11
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Banking and Credit Services
A. Agricultural Credit in Pakistan
1.        The major institutions concerned with agricultural credit in
Pakistan are the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), which is the central bank;
the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP); and Pakistan's fif-
teen commercial banks, which were recently'nationalized (see Appendix).
State Bank of Pakistan
2.        SBP carries out the usual central bank functions of controlling
the money supply, and regulating and supervising the banking system. In
addition, it has an Agricultural Credit Department whose responsibilities
are to study the agricultural credit situation of the country, and to co-
ordinate credit services to farmers offered by ADBP and the Agricultural
Loan Schemes of the commercial banks (para 8).
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
3..       ADBP, Pakistan's principal institution for agricultural finance,
was established by the Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance of 1961.
The Government holds ADBP's entire share capital of Rs 185 M. The head office
is in Islamabad; this office also serves as Zonal Headquarters for Northern
Pakistan (Punjab and NWFP). The Accounts Department and Zonal Headquarters
for Southern Pakistan (Sind and Baluchistan) is located in Karachi. There
are 11 Regional Offices, each headed by a Regional Manager, and 166 branch
Offices. ADBP has about 360 officers, most of whom have at least a Bachelor's
degree in agriculture, economics or commerce.
4.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  ADBP grants loans for both
seasonal inputs such as seed, fertilizer, and pesticides, and capital
investments such as tractors, land levelling, tubewells. Loans are classi-
fied as short-term if for 18 months or less, medium-term if for between 18
months and 5 years, and long-term if for more than 5 years.
5.        The loan applicant is required to present a plan specifying the
purposes for which the loan is to be used; this plan is then verified and
evaluated by an ADBP Investigation Officer. A Branch Manager is authorized
to approve loans of up to Rs 60,000; requests for larger amounts are referred
to Regional Office or Zonal Headquarters. Approved loans are disbursed in



ANNEX 11
Page 2
the form of payments to the supplier or contractor rather than to the farmer.
:he current rate of interest charged is 10X for lL.is under Rs 5,0CO and 112
for larger sums, with a 2% penalty for overdue payments.
6.        Lending Operations.  The volume of lending fell from Rs 93M (for
West Pakistan) in 1970-71 to Rs 80 M in 1971-72, but then rose very rapidly
to Rs 169 in 1972-73 and Rs 405 M in 1973-74. In 1972-73, the distribution
of loans, according to use, was as follows: tractor 28%; seasonal inputs
24%; tubewells 15%; draft anImals 42; other 29%. Since its establishment
in 1961, ADBP has financed about 23,000 tractors and 19,000 tubewells. Debt
recovery rates have been poor - 42% recoveries in 1972-73.
Agricultural Lending by Commercial Banks
7.        Pakistan has a well-developed commercial banking system.  The
fifteen local commercial banks include three large ones with more than 500
branches each. Market towns typically have one or more commercial bank
branches, and the great majority of progressive farmers maintain bank
accounts.
8.        Before 1972, the commercial banks generally confined their activi-
ties to commerce and industry. In that year, however, SBP took steps to
promote their involvement in agriculture. A National Credit Consultative
Council was established in September 1972, under SBP's sponsorship, with
the purpose of setting sectoral targets for bank credit on the basis of
the country's socio-economic needs, with increased attention to previously
neglected sectors. In December 1972, SBP, believing in the advantage of a
"multi-agency approach" for meeting the credit needs of the agricultural
sector, promulgated its "Agricultural Loans Scheme for Commercial Banks."
Under this scheme SBP sets annual targets for agricultural lending by each
commercial bank. The penalty for failure to meet the target is that, at the
end of the year, the difference between target and achievement must be de-
posited with SBP without interest. The process of increasing Government
supervision of the banking system culminated in the nationalization of the
local commercial banks on January 1, 1974.
9.        The commercial banks have responded vigorously to SBP's initiatives
to serve the agricultural sector. They have recruited M. Sc. graduates in
agriculture, agricultural economics, and agricultural engineering, given
them training in credit management, and put them to work in their newly
established Agricultural Credit Divisions. Loans are advanced for essen-
tially the same purposes as ADBP loans: seasonal inputs, tractors, tube-
wells, land development, livestock, etc. Lending procedures are also
similar to those of ADBP. Interest is charged at 11%. Most branches report
good recovery performance (85-95%), while a few report recovery rates as
low as 50%.
10.       The lending performance of the commercial banks under the Agri-
cultural Loans Scheme is shown below:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Rs Million
For Seasonal Inputs      For Capital Investment
Year                      Target  Achievement       Target      Achievement
1972-73                       80         68           20            17
1973-74                      250        226            50           61
1974-75                      300        N.A.         120            N.A.
Thus in 1973-74 the commercial banks extended about 70% as much credit to
agriculture as did ADBP.
B. Credit Services for Project Farmers
11.       Farmers registered with the Seed Corporations as seed growers and
requiring credit for farm development would be eligible to receive credit
from local banks selected and supervised by SBP. ADBP which has hitherto
played a major role in providing credit to farmers would be precluded from
participating in this project until GOP makes arrangements satisfactory to
IDA to remedy ADBP's financial and administrative defects already identified
by IDA. The Seed Corporations would assist the farmers in preparing the
farm plans providing the basis for the loan, and the loan applications would
be submitted to the banks with the recommendation of the Corporations.
12.       Lending terms would be the standard ones for agriculture:  an
interest rate of 11%, and a repayment period of 8 years for capital invest-
ments. The farmer would make a 15% down payment, while the loan would
finance 85% of the investment cost.



ANNEX 11
Appendix
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Banking and Credit Services
List of Pakistani Commercial Banks
Australasia
Bank of Bahawalpur
Commerce Bank
Eastern Banking Corporation
Eastern Mercantile Bank
Habib Bank
Lahore Commercial Bank
Muslim Commercial Bank
National Bank of Pakistan
Punjab Provincial Bank
Standard Bank
Union Bank
United Bank Limited
Sarbad Bank
Premier Bank



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Marketing and Pricing
Procurement of Seed
1.        The field staff attached to the Production Department of the Seed
Corporations would prepare harvesting prograns in consultation with the seed
growers. Based on these the Processing Department would schedule crop
transport to the plants.  Seed Certification Agency inspectors would visit
the farmers, or ginneries in the case of approved cotton seed. and collect
pack, seal and mark representative samples of the harvested crop for quality
control-laboratory tests and post-control trials. The samples would be
divided into three portions: one for immediate analysis, one for reference
and one for the farmer or ginnery. The seed to be delivered to the Corpora-
tions would be bagged, sealed and marked. The Plant Manager would then
arrange to take delivery of the seed from the grower or ginnery and have
it transported to the nearest plant. The delivery receipt issued to the
grower or the ginnery would form the basis for their payment.
2.        For seed other than cotton the grower would be paid an agreed
premium above the market rate for all seed meeting certification standard,
as determined by the test of the NSCA. That portion of crop delivered but
not meeting the required seed standard would be paid for at the market rate
for the commercial crop; growers would have up to six weeks from delivery
in which to nominate a sale day for the purpose of price fixing. 1/ In
the case of certified seed cotton, the premium would be paid on the totality
of the grower's delivery since it would not be possible to determine the
proportion eventually going as seed. For approved cotton seed ginners
would receive a small premium, above the oil mill price, to compensate
for the extra care necessary to segregate seed lots from different pickings.
3.        Payment at market price would be made by the Corporations within
three days of the agreed date of sale and premium payment within thirty
days of the agreed sale date.
Corporation Sales
4.        The Seed Corporations would be responsible for market research,
publicity, sales promotion, and programming sales and distribution. It would,
1/ Without such a provision, growers might be tempted to retain seed to
gain from post-harvest price rises. This would be undesirable as they
have no suitable storage.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
however, not engage in physical distribution of seed or in retailing activi-
ties. The Corporations would appoint authorized distributors who would be
responsible for the transport, and retail sales of certified and approved
seed to farmers through their own network of retail outlets.
5.        Project success would depend on an efficient and low cost system for
seed distribution. No farmer convinced of the benefits of good quality
seed, and willing to pay the prices fixed by the Corporations, wherever
he might be located, should be denied the opportunity of securing his seed
requirements at the right place and time. It is, therefore, essential that
retail outlets should be spread throughout the country as widely as possible.
To ensure efficient service, competition among distributors would be
encouraged.
6.        At present only limited quantities of seed passing through the
market are handled by three State institutions viz:
Punjab Agricultural and Supplies Corporation,
Sind Agricultural Supplies Organization, and
NWFP Agricultural Development Authority.
These three institutions also engage in distribution and sale of fertilizer
and pesticide (Annex 1). While they can usefully continue to handle seed
distribution along with other agricultural supplies, it is neither feasible
nor desirable for them to open numerous new retail outlets in various
scattered locations. The Seed Corporations- would therefore appoint, as
additional distributors, other institutions, including those in the private
sector, to share in the distribution and sales of certified and approved seed
produced by the Corporations.
7.        The Corporations would fix retail selling prices and sell to
distributors at wholesale prices, providing a price margin to cover trans-
port costs and selling commission. Distributors would be required to
submit periodical sales returns to enable the Corporations to effectively
control seed distribution and sales to farmers.
Pricing of Seed
S.        In the long term, the retail prices charged to the farmers must
be such as to ensure financial viability of the Corporations at full pro-
duction and be adequate to cover:
premiums paid to registered seed growers;
collection costs;
processing costs;
packing and storage costs;
Seed Corporations' overhead costs;
distribution costs (including sales commission); and
a reasonable rate of return on Corporations' investments.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        The major factors bearing on a seed pricing policy are:
(i) higher operating and overhead costs in the initial years
of low throughput;
(ii) the time required to convince farmers, who presently purchase
unprocessed and low quality seed at almost commodity
prices, of the increased benefits flowing from the use of
high cost, processed and certified seed;
(iii) the need for the new state-owned Seed Corporations to
demonstrate to farmers their ability to deliver seed
of guaranteed high quality. This too would require
time, particularly against a history of marketing of
poor quality seed by government institutions;
(iv) Governments' desire to make seed available at low prices
in order to reach the poorer farmers; and
(v)  Governments' desire to expand quality seed production
very rapidly.
10.       In order to set prices the Corporations would calculate target
prices which would be the retail prices required to ensure financial viability
at full production (pra 8). In the years before full production these
prices may not cover all costs, yet would be higher than the market would
bear (para 9).
11.       It would be normal commercial practice for deficits incurred in
the early years of a new operation to be capitalized as launching costs.
Three factors militate against this approach in this case.
(i) a new product is being launched not on a new market
but one which has constantly been exposed to inferior
products, from an almost identical source;
(ii) Governments' desire to expand output more rapidly than
would be commercially prudent - without Government support;
and
(iii) Governments' avowed intent to reach poor farmers quickly
by subsidizing seed prices -- and the desire for the credit
for so doing.
12.       For five years from the start of Corporation operations seed prices
would therefore be subsidized. The prices for seed charged to farmers in
the first year of production would be not lower than the cost at which cereal
seed would be procured from the registered growers, or cotton seed procured
from the ginneries. The selling prices would be gradually increased in
subsequent years up to year six when there would be no subsidy - the prices



ANNEX 12
Page 4
charged to the farmer would be the target prices fixed by the Corporations
solely on commercial grounds. The subsidies, which would be phased out
over a period of five years, would be reimbursed to the Corporations by
the Governments.
13.       Table 2 gives estimates of the ex-plant prices for the various
crops. These prices have been worked out by starting from the estimates
of the prevailing market prices for grain (ex-ginnery price for cotton),
and taking into account the investment and operating costs of the Corpora-
tions. Using the financial models worked out for representative processing
plants (Annex 13), the price level was set to ensure an attractive financial
rate of return (about 15Z) to the Corporations.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SED PROJECT
Price Assumptions for the Major Project Crops /
(prices in Rs per maund, unless otherwise specified)
Wheat 2/
Farm gate price:                       Rs 45
Market price:                          Rs 47
Procurement price:                     Rs 37
Br-product (Bhossa):                   Rs  5
Paddy,
$assati           Coarse rice
Nilled rice:  procurement price               Rs  90              Rs 40
IflJed rice:  market price                    Rs 115              Rs .55
Paddy price (delivered to the mill)           ' Rs  59            Rs 2.7
Paddy fara  ate price                         Rs  58              Rs 26
By-product (straw)                            Rs   2              Rs  2
CottonW 
Seed cotton: price at the ginnery:   Rs 77
Seed cotton:  farm gate price          Rs 75
Cotton seed: price at the ginnery:   Rs 48
Be-product (sticks)                    Rs  3
Maize
Farm gate price:                       Rs 45
By-products (stalks)                   Rs 80(per acre)
(an
Farm gate price:                       Rs 45
Berseex (wet)
Farm gate price:                       Rs  2
Kharif Fodder
Farm gate price:                       Rs  1.5
By-product                             Rs 27
1 These figures are forecasts of the crop prices at the time of harvest in
1975, assuming that this harvest would be a "normal" one. At the time of
sowin& prices are normally 10 to 15% higher.
I These prices are averages of the prices of local and improved varieties.
2/3 of the milled rice procurement price minus Rs 1. for milling charges.
The prices of seed cotton are averages for the various qualities.
i/This price corresponds to good quality seeds (for sowing and not for crushing);
the average price of all-quality seeds would be lower.



ANNIN 12
Table 2
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Ex-Plant Prices for Proceased Seeds
(Rs per maund)
Farm gate   Price Paid      Year 2          Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6
price for    to the        (ist  year
grain 2      Growers      of operation
(_20_)_     of the plant)
CEREAL
Wheat               45            54             54             62        70        78      86
Paddy Basmati       58            69.6           69             77        85       93      101
Paddy Coarse        26            31.2           32             37        42       47       52
Maize               45            54             54             62        70        78      86
Cotton seed         48            __             48             53        58       63       68
Subsidy per maund
of paddy coarse --             __             20             15       10         5       -
Subsidy per maund
of all other
cereals (incl.
paddy basmati)  --             --             32             24       16         98      _
Subsidy per maund
for cotton seed --            --              20             15       10         5
1/ Ex-ginnery price for cotton seed.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Financial Projections
1.        The purpose of these financial projections is to show that the
price level set for the seed at the various processing stages provides a
sufficient financial incentive to the participants. Farmers entering into
a legal agreement with the Corporations would get advice for developing their
land and preferential treatment for purchasing farm machinery in exchange for
their commitment to grow seed for the Corporations. In addition to this
incentive and the compulsion provided by the agreement, however, it is
necessary that the farmer be convinced of the profitability of seed growing
if he is to carry out this activity satisfactorily. Likewise, a similar
financial incentive must be provided for the Corporations, which are to be
run on commercial lines and expected to be financially viable.
2.        To establish the financial viability of seed growing, two farm
models were worked out (Tables 1 through 4). Each model represents the
activity of a typical seed grower owning a 100-acre farm. In both models,
wheat is the principal rabi crop; the principal kharif crops are cotton
in Model 1, rice and maize in Model 2. Three situations have been dis-
tinguished: without project (Situation I), with additional on-farm invest-
ment and the farmer still growing commercial crops (Situation II), and
with additional on-farm investment and the farmer growing seed (Situation
III).
3.        The models show that, even if he does not grow seed, the per-
formance of the farmer would be improved by the new investment (Situation
II). Both models give a financial rate of return between 30% and 40% for
Situation II over Situation I and the net cash income of the farmers, when
they have paid off the loans incurred to finance their investment, is 50%
higher than it was before making the investments.
4.        Farmers willing to grow seed for the Corporations would receive
for their seed a premium above the market price for the commercial crop.
It is proposed that the farmers would get a premium of 16% over the market
price for cotton, and 20% for the other crops. (Annex 12, Table 2). Ex-
cepting cotton this premium would be paid only on the part of the crop
that meets the seed quality standard after testing by the Seed Certification
Agency. It is assumed that, on the average, 80% of a farmer's crop would
meet this standard. In the case of seed cotton, however, the premium would
be paid on the totality of seed delivered by the grower since it would not
be possible to determine the proportion eventually going as seed.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
5.        The models show that the farmers would be considerably better off
if, having invested on their farms, they took to growing seed for the Cor-
porations (Situation III). The rates of return for Situation III over
Situation I is 59% for Model I, 48% for Model II: and their net cash in-
come after loan repayment some 75% higher than before investment. Two
sensitivity tests (investment cost increase of 20%, yield decline of 10%)
give rates of return of about 30% which is still attractive. The level
set for the premium to be paid to the seed growers is thus considered an
adequate incentive.
6.        The financial viability of seed processing has been established
on the basis of two models. Since technologies and costs are different
for processing cotton and cereal seed, one model was established for each
type. The Corporation overhead expenses have been appropriately allocated
to the different plant models. Likewise, the cost of common facilities
or inputs to be used jointly by a cereal cum cotton plant were apportioned
between them.  The cereal plant model has a throughputof 21 ,f1 30 tons
(17,100 tons wheat, 1,410 tons rice and 2,620 tons maize); the cotton plant
has a throughput of 16,000 tons of commercial cotton seed, 970 tons of
certified seed, 25 tons of basic seed. Details of plant costs and revenues
are given in Annex 4.
7.        The price of the seed was established ex-plant, i.e., exclusive of
distribution and retailing costs (Annex 12, Table 2). Seed prices ex-plant
were determined so as to ensure a reasonable profit for the plants. The
selected set of prices would give each plant a financial rate of return
around 15 % (Table 5).  Sensitivity tests show that the rates of
return are not as sensitive to investment costs as to operating costs. Thus,
Ihus, the selling price of the processed seed would be influenced more by
by operating costs of the plants (comprising a very high proportion of
raw materials cost) than by capital investment in the plants.
8.        A cash flow statement for the Punjab Seed Corporation is given in
Table 6. The financing structure assumed is that all capital costs during
the project period would be met from equity capital. Permanent working
capital would be obtained through 10 year loans carrying interest at 11% pa
and with a five year grace period. Short term working capital required
during peak months would be obtained from commercial banks. It is evident
from the cash flow statement that unless all capital costs are covered by
equity capital the Corporation would be faced with an unserviceable debt
burden. This situation is considered representative of the Sind Seed Cor-
poration as well.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Grower's Farm - Revenue
(Amounts in Rupees)
Situation I                                       Sttustpn I1/                                                         Situation III-
(Without Project)                      tWIth' Project InvetIment, Without Seed                           (With Project Investment, With Seed Crowing)
Growing)
Yields     Production             2/               Yields     Production                   Acres (of3/       Yields         Seed4/       Non-seed        Sood  !       n-meed
Acres    (mds/ac)         (ads)       Revenue      Acres    (mda/ac)         (mds)       Revenue      whlch Seed)    (mde/ac)    Production    Production           Revenu      Revenue
Kai                                                                                                                          Ri           Rs
OLDIL  I                                                                                                                                                                            ----                    ---
Wheat              40         30            1,200        54,000        50        35            1,750         78,750       50 (374)             35        1,313           437            68,243      19,665
Cotton             35         15             525         39,375       40         17              680         51,000       40 (7)               17I         119           561            10,308      42 075
Bereem             10        600           6,000         12,000       10        700            7,000         14,000       10 (2)       ( NS: 7001                      8,100                        16,2000
(   : 550/7        14                           1,260
iherif fodder      12        800/3_/       9.600/367/ ( 14,400        12        900/3        10,800/36.71 ( 16,200        12 (4)       (      gS 90/3!/               10,465/34                     16,502
972                                          (    972                     (  S: 230/25         13                             416
6/                                                                                                                                                                               80,227      94,42
Other               8 -                                                                                                    8                                                             SL
Total        105                              Rs  120,747       120                               Ka  160,922      120                                                           174,669
IDDEL 2
Wheat              28         30             840         37,800        36         35           1,260         56,700       36 (27)              35          945            315           47,436      14,175
Hixse              10         30             300         13,500       12         35              420         18,900       12 (3)               35          105           315             5,268      14,175
Rice               35         35           1,225         31,850       40         40            1,600         41,600       40 (2h)              40          100         1,500             3,003      39,000
Gram               10          8              80          3,600       12          9              108          4,860       12 (2)                9           18            90               935       4,050
Bereem             10                                    12,000       10                                     14,000       10 (2)                                                         1,260      16,200
(as above)                                         (as above)                                                   (as above)
Katrif fodder      12                                    14,400        12                                    16,200       12 (4)                                                           416      16,552
6/                                                    972                                                 972                                                                    58,318    104,152
Other               5                                                   5                                                  5                                                           104 162
Total        110                                   114,122      127                                   153,232       127                                                          162,480
1/  At full development (Year 3 Qnwards).
2/  Price assumptions from TabLe 2 in Annex 12.
3/  Seed acreage is keyed to seed production.
1/  Seed production per farm is determined by dividing the Seed Corporationa' demand for seed awong the participating farms.  The number of participating farms (estimated
at 1876, 90P of Model I and 940 of Model 2) is the number of farms needed to grow the seed crop for which there is the greatest demand, namely wheat.  (And assuming
that participating farmers devote only 75. of their wheat acreage to seed, growing foodgrain on the rmaining 25Z of wheat acreage.)
5/ The seed growers receive a premium of 20Z of the foodgrain price for acceptable seed.  However, asouLming 3% field rejection and 20Z factory rejection, they reoeive the
premium on only 77.67 of the seed crop, receiving grain price for the remainder. (However, there are no field rejections for berseem and kharif fodder, because there
are no recognizable varieties.)
6/  "0ther" consists chiefly of vegetables and sugarcane.  It is omitted from the financial calculations because of lack of data and the fact that it is not affected by the
project.
7/  The number to the left of the slash refers to fodder; the number to the right refers to a coarse grain by-product.
8/ NS: nonseed; 5: seed.  A seed fodder crop is grown differently from a nonseed fodder crop, with less fodder removed during the growing season to ensure a larger seed
yield at the end.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Grower's - Fixed Operating Costs
(Amounts in Rupees)
Situation I                               Situations II, III
(incremental cost compared with Sit. I)
Item                          Rate (Rs)      Usage      Cost (Rs)           Rate (Rs)      Usage      Cost (Rs)
Tractor and implements            27.5/hr!/       500 hr      13,750             22/hr3/         250 hr      5,500
Bullocks                          2600/pr           4 pr      10,400           2600/pr            -1 pr 4/  -2,600
Tubewell                        25,665/yr          1/4         6,416         21,8605/             1/4        5,465
Land Revenue                      10/ac           100 ac       1.000                                         8,365 (incremental
cost)
31,566                                        31,566 (Sit. I cost)
39,931 (Situation
II cost)
1/  Depreciation                  5,500 Rs/yr               2/   Depreciation                  3,805 Rs/yr
Insurance                       250                           Repairs and Spares           2,610
Repairs and Spares            5,500                           Operator                     3,000
Fuel (5.75/hr)                5,750                                                        9,415
Lubricants (1.25/hr)          1,250                           Fuel (5.75/hr)              14,375
Operator                      3.000                           Lubricants (.75/hr)          1,875
21,250                                                       25,665 i 4 = Rs 6416
Implements                    6,250
(replacements             27,500 i, 1,000 hr/yr   Rs 27.5/hr
and repairs)                                                                                                            0
3/  As in 1/, except that depreciation is excluded to avoid double-counting the investment cost.
4/  Bullock usage reduced from 4 pairs to 3 pairs.                                                                               M
5/ As in 2/, except that depreciation is excluded.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Seed Grower's Farm - Variable Operating Costa
(Amounts in Rupees)
Divisible (by Crop) Costs per Acre                                                                        Divisible Costs per Farm
Crop,                                                             Canal            2/    Divisible
Situation           Fertilizer       Insecticide      Seed I      Water      Labor          Costs                Model 1. I    Model 1. II    Model 1. III          Model 2. I    Model 2. 11    Model 2, III
Wheat I                  225               -            45           12        115          457                    18,280                                             12,796
TI                225               -            45           12        182          464                                    23,200            5,800                            16.704              4,176
III               225               -            65           12        196          498                                                     18,675                                               13.446
Cotton I                 150             50             10           17        280          507                    17,745
II               ISO             65             12           17        294          538                                    21,520          17,754
III              150             65             17           17        315          564                                                     3,948
Rice I                   150             30              5           17        245          447                                                                       15,645
II                 150              60             5           17        259          491                                                                                       19,640             18.413
III                150              60             7           17        280          514                                                                                                           1,285
NaiZe 1                  150             20             23           10        210          413                                                                        4,130
11                150              20            23           10        217          420                                                                                        5.040              3,780
I                 20ISO            20            30           10        231          444                                                                                                           1,332
Gran I                                    -             18           10        175          203                                                                        2,030
II                  _                -            18           10        182          210                                                                                         2,520              2,100
III                 -                -            26           10        196          232                                                                                                              464
Berseem I                 -               -             15           10        350          375                     3,150                                              3,750
ll               -               -             15           10        385          410                                     4,100            3,820                             4,100              3,280
III              -                -            22           10        385          422                                                        844                                                  844
Kharif  I                 -               -             14           10        280          304                     3,648                                               3,648
Fodder II                -               -             14           10        294          318                                     3,816            3,651                             3.816              3,498
III              -                -            20           10        294          324                                      _                 162                                                   324
Divisible Costs           43,423          52,636           54,660            41,999          51,820             52,942
Indivisible Costs         31,566          39931            39.931            31 566          39,931             39 931
(from Table 2 )
Total Operativa Cost    74,989            92,567           94,591             73,565         91,751             92,673
(At Full Development)
1/  Basic seed provided to the seed grower by the Corporation in priced 201 higher than certified seed, which in turn is prices 207 higher than ordinary seed, for a total
priua. of 447..
2/  Man-days/acre x Re 7/isan-day.
/  Coat/acre (from left) x cropping pattern.  At full development (year 3 onward) for Situations 11 and Ill.



ANNEX 13
Table 
PAKIST&N
SEED PROJECT
Seed Orws Farms
Cash Flowa
Situation I (Without Project)
Xodal 1 IbeatJottoa               Model 2  Wheat,Rioe4(a±se
Year   Tear  reYrs  Tear ears  Yer                r Ysa    tear  Tears
1      2     3-8      9    10-16    1       2      3-8     9    10-16
1.  Revenue                               12o.8  120.8  120.8  12o.8  120.8  114.1  114.1  114.l  1.14.1  114.1
2.  Operating Costa                        77  50   75.0   75.0   73 5  _L.5   73.5   73 5 2                   3 5
3. Operating Surplus (- Net Cash  '        45.8   45.8   45.8   45.8   45.8   40.6   4.o.6   40.6   40.6   40.6
Situation II W ith ProJe t
Investent, Wthout  *oed gwine)
. Rvenue /        3/                     120.7  138.5  160.9  16o.9  160.9  U14.1  131.0  153.2  153.2  153.2
5 . Operating Cost -                       77.8   85.2   92.6   92.6   92.6   76.3   84.o   91.7   91.7   91.7
6 . Operating trplas                       43.0   53.3   68.4   68.4   68.4   37.8   47.0   61.5   61.5   61.5
7 . Investsnt-                             146.4    -      -     20.3    -      46.4    -       -     20.3    -
3 . Loan/(Repayaent4'                      39.4   (8.4)  (8.4)   -       -      39.4   (8.4)  (8.4)   -        -
9.  Net Cast (6-7+6)                      36.0  4".9   60.0   48.1   68.4   30.8   38.6   53.1   41.2   61.5
10.  Increnental Net Cash, II-I (7-3)       (9.7)  (0.8)  14.2    2.3   22.6   (9.8)  (2.0)  12.6    0.6   20.9
Situation III (Yth ProJeot
11 . Reyenue/ g124.1   145.3 174.6  174.6  174.6  116.7  136.2  162.5  162.5  162.5
12 . Operating Cost                        78.5    86.5  94.6  94.6   94.6   76.9   84.9   92.9   92.9   92.9
13. Operating Surplus                      45.6    58.8  80.0   80.0   80.0   39.8   51.3   69.6   69.6   69.6
14 . Investzent /    _46.4    -                            -      20.3    -      46.4    -       -     20.3    -
15 . Loan/ARepayiment) 5/                  39.41/  (8.-) (8-4)   -        -      39.4   (.8-4)  (8-4)   -       -
16 . Net Cash (13-14+15)                   36.6    50.4  71.6   59.7   80.0   32.8   42.9  61.2   49.4   69.6
17 . Increa,ntal Net Cash, III-II (16-9)   2.6       5.5  11.6   11.6   11.6    2.0    4.3    8.1    8.1    8.1
18 . Incresental Net Cash, III-I (26-3)   (7.2)    4.6  25.8   13.9   34.2  (7.8)   2.3   20.7    8.8   29.0
Financial Rates of Return
on Additional Investment
Situation II
2.9. incremental operating Surplus,
Net of Invesatent Cost (6 -3-7)       (49.2)   7.5   22.6    2.3   22.6  (49.2)   6.4   20.9    0.6   20.9
Rate of Return:  36%                      Rate of Return:  33%
Situation III
20. incremental operating Surplus,
Net of Investeent Cost ( 13.3- 4)    (46.6)  13.0   31.2   13.9   34.2  (47.2)  10.7   29.C    8.7   29.0
Rate of Return:  59%                    Rate of Returns  48%
Note: Figures may not add exactly due to rounding.
I/ Revenue (from Table 1) minus operating cost (Table 3).
2/ From Table 1.
3/From Table 3.                                                                        Cssprfre
i/ Assumptifns underlying investment cost as stated in Annex 3, tables 1, 2 ani 3.  Costs per farmer
are as follows:                Rs
Tractor and implEments   21,660
Tubewell                  12,500
Land development          12.250
Total                  46,410                             Rs
In year 9, the tractor and tubewell engine are replaced:    26,000
26 100
Eef 5 .H    h   - 20,275
5/ Farmer makes 15% down payment on project inveataent; bank loan finances remaining 85%. The interest rate
is 11%; repayment takes place in years 2-8.



Table 5
PAXLSTANI
SLDPROJZCT
Financial late of Retarn - Pro iesin  Plant Xodels
I    e    a    r    a
1        2       3        4       5       6      7-10     11    1          1S    17-20
(I) C2RLLS PIANT
(17,100 tons Wheat, 1,410 tons Rios
and 2,620 tons Maies Seed)
Capital Costa/
Processing facilitiea2/            21-34      -       -        -       -      5.42      -      6.36     -      5.42      -
General - propo%ion                 0.83      -       -        -       -      0.33      -      0.33     -      0.33      -
Working capitalAW                    _       6.13    6.13    6.13      -       _                - _        _
Subtotal                         22.17     6.13    6.13    6.13      -      5.75     -       6.69     -      5.75      -
Operating Costs5/                     0.63    15.12   28.61   42.10   42.10   42.10   42.10   42.10   42.10   42.10   42.10
Total *osts                      22.80    21.25   34.74   48.23   42.10   47.85   42.10   48.79   42.10   47.85   42.10
Benefit.6/                             _      17.36   33.32   49.98   49.98   49.98   49.98   49.98   49.98   49.98i 49.98
Net benefits                    (22.80)   (3.89) (1.42)    1.75    7.88    2.13    7.88    1.19    7.88    2.13    7.88
(II) CorToN PLANT
(16,000 tcon Ciaercial, 970 tons
Certified and 25 tons Basic Seed)
Capital Costs
Processing facilitiesl/            18.31      -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -        _
General - propo§)ion                0.83      -       -        -              0.33      _       _       -      0.33      _
Working capital                      -       4-44     4-44     4-44            -        -                               -
Subtotal                         19.14     4.44    4.44    4.44      -      0.33     -        -       _      0.33      _
Operating Cost2'/                     0.67    12.21   22.77   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.39
Total costs                      19.81    16.65   27.21   37.83   33.39   33.72   33.39   33.39   33.39   33.72   33.39
Benefit.s'/                            -      13.06   26.12   39.18   39.18   39.18   39.18   39.18   39.18   39.18   39.18
Net Benefits                    (19.81)   (3.59)  (1.09)   1.35    5.79    5.46    5.79    5.79    5.79    5.46    5.79
FINANCIAL UT% OF RNUJ   14.45> for Cereals Plant
114.75% for Cotton Plant
1/ Included are inveatxnts and replaoement costs.
2/ Based on costs in knnex 4, Tables 2, 3 and 4 plus a 1O  for physical contingency.  Replacement ooets are based on life
expectancy of fixed assets aa shown in tke sae Tables.
3/  1/5 proportion of Punjab Seed Corporation's investeenta in general buildings, vehicles and equipent at headquarters, as in
Annex 10, Table 2.
4/ The value of working capital has been taken as the increietal value of the raw material (unprocessed cereal seeds) divided
by 2 since the seeds will be kept for half a year.
5/ Details are in  nnex 4, Tabla 8, and aesmptiona in Annex 4, Appendix.
6/ Details are in Annex 4, Table 10.
7/ Based on costs in Annex 4, Table 5, plus a 1IC for physical contingency. No provision for replacements as equipnent assumed
to have a 20-year life.
8/ The value of working capital haa been taken as the incremental value of the raw material (unprocessed seed cotton and cotton
seed) divided by 2 since this working capital will be kept for half a year.
9/ Details are in Annex 4, Table 9.
10/  Details are in Annex 4, Table  1.



SEED POJECT
Cash Flow Statcent - ,= Seed Corwrstion
PROJECT FARS:    2       3      4      5      6      7     8      9      10      11      12      13      14      15
SWURCED
Revenue Surplus
Processing
8aba  - Cereals                   -_    (.63) 2.24   L.71   '. N    7.5   7.86   7.88   7.B8    7.88    7.88    7.88    7.88    7.88
Manewal - Cereals                 (.51)  1.81   3.81   6.37   6.37   6.37   6.37   6.37   6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37
hanea1 - Cotton                   (.50)   .64   2.51   4.34  4.34  4.34   L.34   4.34  4.34    4.34    4.34    4.34    4.34   4.34
D. G. Inan - Cereal3              --    (.51)  1.81   3.81   6.37   6.37   6.37   6.37   6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37    6.37
D. a. Fhan - Cotton                -    (.67)   .85   3.35   5-579   5.79   5.79   5.79    5.79    5.79 5-79    5.79    5.79
Total Surplus              (1.01)  .64  11.22  a2.58  3u.75  3u.75  j0.75  3u.75  30.75   3u.75   30.75   30.75   30.75   30.75
ibuit Ca pital (Capital Coets)    22.00  66.00  48.0o
e Loan (working Capital)   -   21.45  6T.s3  41.02
Sort-Terk loans                   _.80  _.19   ( .99 )
rotal Receipts             21.79  88.28 125.76  o3.6u  30.75  3u.75  30.75  30.75  30-75   30-75   30-75   30-75   30.75   3u.75
APPLICATION
Capital Costs
Fans Development                  2.51   3.76    -                   -    1.50   1.72                     -      1.50    1.72
Processin  Facilities             9.41  29.49  22.23                5.)42  10.84                         6.15   12.51     -
Buildings and Storage             3.54  11.77   9.69                1.65    -      -                     1.65     -
Vehiclss                          1.04   1.85   .42                  .52   1.85    .42                    .52    1.85     .42
16.50  46.87  32.34                7.59  14.19   2.14                  8.32   3 5.86    2. 14
Physical Contizgenaiwe         1.49   3.80   2.78                     -      -              -                  -       -
Price Contingencies            3.80  14.89  12.245               3.87   7.23   1.09                   4.24    7.98    1.09
21.79  65.56  47.57               11.46  21.42   3.23                 22.56   23.84    3.23
wrir4ng Capital (incremazeal)    -   21.45 67.53  53.21
Short-Term Loan Interest W/     -      .09   .11    -
Long-Tesm Loans - Interest i/   -    1.18  6.07  12.04  lU.3C 12.65  12.10  12.10  10.'i5  d.25    5.50    L.4u   3.8,>   1.65
- Repa7ment     -      -      -      -    15.00  S.uu    -    i5.00   20.00  25.00   10.00    5.00   20.00   15.oo
Total Paymerits            21.79  88.286 ll.?d 6,.25   29.30 29.11  33.52  30.33  .ju.4h  33.25   2.i06   33.214  27.Ud   10.605
Surplus - Anual                 -      -    4.40  <±.65)  L.45 1.64  (2.77)   .42    .30  (2.50)   2.69   (2.49)  3.07   144.1U
- Cumulative            -      -    4.48   2.83    4.37  6.01   3.24   3.66    3.96   1.46    4.15    1.66    5.33   21.98
1/ For the Corporation's farmirE operations, it has been assumed that the revenuLs would  Jiut cover the operating costs;
thus no surplus on farming is included in ttis statement.
,/ Includes replacement a fixed assets.
)  Price contirgenries on all investment costs are included although revenus are stated at 1975 constant prices, in order
to be conservative in regard to the Corporations' cash flow.
' Interest calculated at 11% per annum.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The principal economic benefit to Pakistan resulting from the
project would be from higher crop yields that could be obtained by the
farmers using project seed. Lint quality improvement, in the case of
cotton would also be an important benefit. Additional benefits would
accrue from pilot projects operations.
Yield Effect
2.        The individual farmer using high quality project seed would achieve
higher yields than those from the mixed low-quality seed currently used.
In computing the economic benefit from this improvement, only incremental
production of the major crops (wheat, maize, rice, cotton) is included
since seed of these crops make up 99% of the total project production.
3.        Wheat and Rice.  The yield impact of project seed for these crops
is based on two assumptions. Firstly, that the seed would be bought by
farmers already growing the older HYVs. Thus the initial step from low
yielding varieties to HYVs has been made. Benefit would derive only from
improved quality of HYY seed and speedier varietal replacement. Secondly,
it is assumed that farmers buying project wheat and rice seed would replace
it every five years. This would be a sub-optimal replacement rate. Over
five years the seed quality, hence yield impact, would degenerate markedly
mainly through admixture. However, it is likely to be the average rate of
replacement for large numbers of unsophisticated farmers. On the basis of
these assumptions, it is estimated that project wheat and rice seed would
increase yields per acre by an average of 10% over the replacement period
of five years. Because of the large acreage covered, the base taken is the
national average yield for irrigated areas.
4.        Maize.  Currently little HYV maize is grown.  A higher yield
impact is therefore assumed for maize to embrace both improved seed quality
and varietal improvement.  A yield increase of 20% average for a three-year
replacement period is assumed. The shorter replacement period reflects the
open pollenated character of maize leading to more rapid and apparent seed
degeneration.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
5.        Cotton.  Cotton seed would be replaced every year, as most now
is. The yield impact of project cotton seed would derive from seed quality
improvement, since no dramatic varietal improvement is in the offing.
Improved quality seed with high germination rates, and treated against seed
borne disease, would lead to improved plant populations, more vigorous
stands, and, hence, higher yields. A yield increase of 10% is assumed.
This appears conservative but it relates to the bulk of the cotton area
where the potential would be diluted by poor husbandry, marginal growing
conditions, etc.
Quality Effect
6.        In addition to the yield effect, an important qualitative improve-
ment would be achieved for cotton. In recent years lint uniformity and
length has deteriorated through varietal admixture, and use of degenerate
seed. Project seed, allied to the varietal zoning to be enforced, would
produce a longer staple length and a better uniformity. Most of the lint
currently has a staple length between 15/16" and 1". As a result of the
project, staple length would be increased to between 1-1/32" and 1-1/16"
(Annex 2). In recent years such a difference in staple length has been
reflected in an 11.5% price advantage for the longer staple. In computing
project benefits it has been assumed that improved lint quality would result
in an average 10% price increase (Table 5).
Other Benefits
7.        The project would increase the net cash income of the seed producers
(Annex 13). The net benefit is relatively minor, however, and is not included
for rate of return purposes. Land and irrigation improvement, farm mechanization
and improved cultural practices on the seed growers' farms would also have a
demonstration effect on the farmers in surrounding areas. This benefit is
not quantified.
8.        The pilot projects would pave the way for the diversification of
the seed industry through production of quality seed of potato and vege-
table. Potato yields are currently reduced by as much as 50% by virus
disease. Most of this loss could be reduced if disease free seed were
produced. Vegetable seed currently produced has poor germination and is
very mixed. Thus yields are poor and the vegetables lack the uniformity
essential to a quality product. Improved seed would give higher yields and
greater uniformity in the size and quality of vegetables, hence facilitating
their marketing. Local production of potato and vegetable seed would help
to save foreign exchange now spent on imported seed. Pilot project costs
and benefits are, however, omitted from the analysis since benefits would
depend esventially on the results of research and cannot be confidently
forecas.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Project Beneficiaries
9.        Since the new seed to be produced under the project is for the
country's main crops, its impact would eventually benefit the majority of
Pakistan's farmers. Farm laborers would also benefit, since about one-tenth
of the incremental harvests would be paid in kind to the harvesting labor
required. Initially, the major beneficiaries would be the larger, progres-
sive farmers who are more likely to understand the potential of the new
seed. These farmers are more familiar with improved technology and have
had a better exposure to good quality seed. As has been proved in Pakistan
following the introduction of Mexipak wheat varieties in the late 60s, this
responsiveness of progressive farmers has a demonstration effect which
quickly persuades the smaller farmers of the advantages of good quality
seed. In a short time, this demonstration effect, added to extension efforts
would ensure the wide use of project seed by all farmers.
10.       The seed produced at full development, would serve about 15 million
acres (computed from Table 1). Assuming that on farms benefiting from pro-
ject seed, 57% of the cultivated area (the national average) is under crops
for which project seed would be provided, these farms would occupy 26 million
acres or 53% of the total farm area. Assuming, as seem reasonable, that
seed usage would increase with farm size, it is estimated that the 26 million
acres would be farmed by 2.1 millinn farmers.l/ The average farm family
size is 6 persons. Thus, some 13 million people could ultimately benefit
from the project. This figure excludes the laborers who would benefit from
the wages paid annually for harvesting labor required for handling the in-
creased crop yields - estimated at 100,000 man-years annually. Some of
these laborers could be members of farm families.
11.       Surveys of income distribution in Pakistan indicate that the cut-
off point for the lowest 40% is about 70% of the national average income
or Rs 800 per capita. Figures derived from national statistics give a net
product per farm acre of Rs 570. With an average family size of six, some
8.5 acres would then be necessary to insure a per capita income of Rs 800.
The assumptions used above (para 10) imply that 1.3 million farmers, or
62% of benefiting farmers, would cultivate less than 8.5 acres. Thus a
total of 8 million beneficiaries would belong to the poorest 40% of the
population. This does not take into account the beneficiaries who are wage
earning harvesting labor. Most of these harvesters would be small farmers
or landless laborers and thus belong to the target group.
Methodology
12.       In computing project benefits, incremental production of the main
crops (wheat, maize, rice and cotton) has been estimated as indicated in
1/ For this calculation it was assumed that: 40% of farmers cultivating
less than 7.5 acres, 50% of those cultivating 7.5 to 25 acres and 70%
of those cultivating over 25 acres, would use project seed.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
paras 3 to 5; a price premium of 10% for improved staple length of lint has
been estimated for the total cotton production from project seed.
13.       The wheat, rice and cotton seed to be produced under the project
would service areas already planted to HYVs. No genetic impact on yield is
assumed, therefore no allowance is made for extra inputs, fertilizer, etc.
For maize, some of the new seed would be sown on areas now under traditional
varieties, the full benefit from the use of these new varieties would require
some additional inputs. However, for simplicity the incremental yield assumed
in this analysis (20% of the current average yield) is based on the expected
(sub-optimal) increase from use of the new seed without extra inputs. Thus,
for all the crops served by the project, the only additional factor of pro-
duction required to achieve the assumed yield increases is the extra labor
for handling increased crops at the time of harvest, (harvesting, threshing
and winnowing for wheat and rice, harvesting and shelling for maize and
picking for cotton).
14.       The financial cost to the farmer for this additional harvest
labor is based on percentage of crop paid in kind since, in Pakistan,
laborers carrying out these tasks are traditionally paid in this way -
one-tenth of the produce for harvesting grain, and one-sixteenth of the
seed cotton for cotton picking. These operations take place at times of
the year when labor demand is high. The economic cost of labor would there-
fore not be different from financial cost.
15.       For foreign exchange, a shadow price of Rs 11 per US$ has been
assumed compared with Rs 9.90 used in financial calculations. This shadow
price is taken from World Bank economic studies of Pakistan. For the bene-
fit stream, domestic prices have been related to the world market prices
expressed in constant US$ (Table 7). In particular, the probable future
decrease in the prices of these commodities in constant dollars has been
taken into account.
16.       Results.  At full development, the increased annual production
of commercial grain would amount to about 640,000 tons, valued at US$120M
(Tables 2, 3 and 4). Out of this one-tenth would be deducted for addi-
tional harvesting labor to give net benefits of US$108 M. The increased
value of seed cotton would amount to US$170 M, (Table 5) of which one-half
is attributed to the increase in quantity (about 200,000 tons/year), and
the other half to quality improvement. Harvesting costs for incremental
cotton production would be one-sixteenth of crop giving net benefits of
US$159 M. However, since most of these commodities are currently either
exported (rice and cotton) or imported (wheat) the annual benefit of US$290
M would be reflected in a comparable improvement in the country's balance
of trade.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
17.       The rate of return (ROR) of the project is 82% and remains very
high when various alternative assumptions are tested. In particular, it
is relatively insensitive to the investment costs and to the shadow ex-
change rate. An increase of the operating cost by 25% brings the ROR down
to 73% and a decrease of the benefits by 25% would give a ROR of 66%.
If both the operating costs increase by 25% and the benefits decrease by
25%, the ROR would be 55%. Costs and benefits calculations are given in
Tables 6 thru 12.
18.       The project is thus economically justified under any set of
realistic assumptions.



PAZISTAJ
Phaaing of Seed Ptoduction By Plant (min crop jV
--------- Tear 3 --------------- ---------  i-- VIG r  --------------          -------------- Yer 5 --------------        --------- Year 6 am  rtr ---------
Cotton_ _ It         Paddy      Maize     Cotton     Whneat        Paddy  b lie     Cotton    WIbt        Paddy      Madaa     Cotton        t       pidrd     -il
PU IJAd t
1.  D. 0. IhMan                   --        -          --        --        6,700      6,400      --        --       13,400    12,0bO       -_         --       20,000    17,080        __
2. Sahtval                       5,400     7,100        40        500     10,700    11,400        580     1,400      16,0o0    17,080     1,010      2,310     16,0o0    17,080      1,410      2,620
3. Ihhanewal                                --                   --                  6,400                 --          --      12,C80      _1 --                  --      17 oflo      --
SID                                      3,500      3,200       400      __        6,900      6,300       800       --      i10,300     9,1400     1,100                10,300      9,400    1,100
Sub-total                             8,900    10,300        440       500      24,300    30,500     1,380     1,400      39,700    50,640      2,110     2,320      46,300     60 .440   2,510      2,620
Correction for certified cotton aeed  /   40°                                         700                                     1,900                                      2,200
Total seed available to end unear        8,500    10,300        440       500      23,600    30,500     1,380      1,400     37,8ao    50,640      2,110     2,320      44,100     60,640    2,510      2,620
Acreage    n with theae se.eda
thusand acreo)                    925        280        60         27      1,588        830       188        76      4,113      1,377       287        126      4,798       1,639      341        143
1/ Per  ach pSAnt, it was asaaued that the prodgctiop ata ta the year after the inveatomet.  The prockction incrsaee  by stage
( i13 In te fifret year, then 2/3 and then the tota1itV) over a 3 year period.
2  Thee. certified cotton seed .ill be distributed to farner, in the segregated area to produce approved  need. Certified seed
-  thus not be availabLe to the end oser. of msade.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Benefit: Incremental Production of Wheat
Seeds                             ------------------------ -          Years  --------------------------------------------
processed   Acreage sown -/                                                                                            11
inyear      (thousand acres)                 5          6           7           8           9          10           and after
Incremental production 2/
(in tons)                         3                 280          16,470    16,470      16,470     16,470      16,470
4                830                     48,823     48,823      48,823      48,823     48,823
5              1,377                                81,000      81,000      81,000     81,000      81,000
6              1,639                                            96,011      96,411     96,411      96,411          96,411
7              1,639                                                        96,411     96,411      96,411          96,411
8              1,639                                                                   96,411      96,411          96,411
9              1,639                                                                               96,411          96,411
10              1,63Y_                                                                                              96,411
Total                                                            16,470    65,293    146,293    242,704    339,115    419,056    466,644             482,055
Cost of incremental labor
(in tons of wheat) 2/                                             1,647     6,529      14,629      24,270    33,911       41,905      46,664         48,205
Net incremental production                                       14,823    58,764    131,664      218,434   305,204    377,151    419,980            433,850
Value of incremental production 4I
(Rs '000)                                                       30,000   116,247    259,2514      430,102   600,951    742,610    826,948           854,250
1/  See Table 1.
2/  The incremental production has been estimated by using an incremental yield of 1.6 maund per acre over a 5year period.
,/  The only incremental labor required would be for harvesting, threshing and winnowing.  Traditionally, laborers carrying out tbe.se
tasks are paid in kind and get 10% of the produce        -
/ Calculated by using the price forecasts given in Table 7 and shadow foreign exchange rate of Rs 11 per US$,.



ANNEX 14
Table 3
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project benefit: Incremental production of maize
--------------Years-------------------
Acreage
Seeds       sown
processed   (thousand
in year     acres) 1    4      5      6     7      8      9 and after
Incremental
production
(in tons) 2/           3             27    2,700  2,700  2,700
4            76            7,600  7,600  7,600
5           126                   12,600 12,600 12,600
6           143                          14,300 1i,300  14,300
7                                                14,300  1L,300
8                                                        14,300
TOTAL                                      2,700 10,300 22,900 34,500 41,200  42,900
Cost of
incremental
labor (in
tons of maize) 3/                            270  1,030  2,290  3,450  4,120   4,290
Net incremental
production                                 2,430  9,270 20,610 31,050 37,080  38,610
Value of
incremental
production 4/                              3,983 114,990 33,326 50,208 59,958  62,432
(Rs 1000)
1/ See Table L1
2/ The incremental production has been estimated by using an incremental
yield of 2.7 maund per acre over a 3 year period.
3/ The only incremental labor would be for harvesting, drying and shelling.
Laborers carrying out these tasks are paid in kind or in cash. In
either case, their wage amounts to about 10% of the produce.
Calculated by using the price forecasts given in Table 7 and a shadow
foreign exchange rate of 'ls 11 per US$.



PAKISTAN
SEll PROJECT
Pro,lect Benefit: Incremental Production of Paddy
Seeds                     I-    -______-__                      Years (in tons) ----------------------------------------
processed    Acreage sownl'                                                                                        11
in year      (thousand acres)    4          i          6           7          8          2         10           and after
Incremental production
(in tons)                        3                 60         6,000       6,000      6,000-    6,000       6,000
4                188                   18,800     18,800      18,800     18,800      18,800
5                287                              28,700      28,700     28,700      28,700    28,700
6                341                                          34,100     314,100     34,100    34,100          34,100
7                341                                                     34,100      34,100    34,100          34,100
8                341                                                                 34,100    34,100          34,100
9                341                                                                            34,100         34,100
10                341                                            -                                              34L100
Total                                                         6,ooo      24,800     53,500     87,600    121,700      149,800   165,100        170,500
Cost of incremental labor I/
(in tons of paddy)                                              600       2,480      5,350      8,760     12,170       14,980    16,510         17,050
Net incremental production                                     5,400     22,320     48,150     78,840    109,530      134,820   148,590         153,450
Value of incremental production  (Rs 000) v                   10,989     44,194     92,159    145,696    195,182      232,834   256,615         265,008
v See Table 1.
v The incremental production has been estimated under the following assumptions:
- 115 of the paddy seeds sold would be Bamati, 415 would be coarse rice,
- the seeding rate for Basmati and coarse rice is the same,
- improved paddy seeds (Basmati and coarse) would bring about a 10% increase of the yields over a 5 year period,
- the current yields for the areas under improved seeds are; 20 maunds per acre for Basmati paddy                                           p
29 maunds per acre for coarse varieties of padiy. 
2/  The only incremental labor required would be for harvesting, threshing and winnowing . Traditionally, laborers carrying out these             a
tasks are paid in kind and get 10% of the produce. 
IL  Calculated by using the price forecasts given in Table 7 and weighting the tonnage of paddy (hemati and Coa*r) in the proportion of their
incremental prodaction. k shadow price of foreign exchange was taken at ti 11 per US$.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Benefit: Incremental Production of Seed Cotton
---------------------------------- Years --------------------______________________
10
2          4          5          6           7          8          2           and after
Area sown (in thousand acres) -/                       925         1,588      4,113      4,798      4,798       4,798      4,798         4,798
Production without project (in thousand tons) 2/       -            408         701      1,815      2,117       2,117      2,117         2,117
Value of production  (Rs '000)3/                       -      1,602,216  2,752,827  7,207,365  8,546,329  8,686,051  8,849,060    8,965,495
Production with project (in thousand tons)             -            449         771      1,996      2,329       2,329      2,329         2,329
Value of production  (Rs 1000) 3/                             1,945,966  3,333,033  8,738,988 10,324,457 10,503,790 10,683,123   10,811,218
Incremental value of production (Rs '0o0)              -        343,750    5bO,206  1,531,123  1,778,128  1,817,739  1,834,063    1,835,723
Incremental cost of labor for picking (Rs '000) 4/   -           21,484      36,262     95,695    111,133    113,609    114,628        115,358
Net value of incremental production (Rs '000) 5/       -         322,266    543,944  1,435,428  1,666,995  1,704,131  1,719,435    1,730,365
1/ See Table 1.
/ Assuming an average yield of 12 maund per acre.
3/ Calculated by using the price forecasts given in Table 7 and a shadow foreign exchange rate of Rs 11 per US$.
/ Traditionally, labor for picking of cotton is paid in kind iA6 of the produce. The incremental cost of labor has,
therefore,been calculated here as 1/16 of the value of the incremental cotton production.
/  This estimate of the benefits neglect the incoMes accruing to the cotton processing plant from the sale of lint,
linter and culled seed.  These additional benefits would amount to 1 to 2% of the benefits accruing to the country from    g
the improvement in yield and quality of its cotton production.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Project Benefit:  Summarv of Benefit Stream
(In Rs, '000.)
Year      Year       Year         Year        Year        Year         Tear        Years
- 4       5          6            7           8            9          10      11 and After
Wheat /     30,000   116,247      259,254     430,102      600,951     742,610     826,948      854,250
Maize./      3,983    14,990       33,326      50,208       59,958      62,432      62,432       62,432
Paddy2/    10,989    44,194        92,159     145,696     195,182      232,834     256,615      265,008
Gotn4/
Cotton- /   322,266   543,944   1,435,428   1,666,995   1,704,131   1,719,435   1.730,365   1,730,365
TOTAL    367,238   719,375   1,820,167   2,293,001   2,560,222   2,757,311   2,876,360   2,912,055
1/  See Annex 14, Table 2.
2/  See Annex 14, Table 3.
3/  See Annex 14, Table 4.                                                                                     w c
4/ See Annex 14, Table 5.                                                                                      H



PAKISTAN                                              Table 7
SEED POJE0T
Price Assuxptions For AEricultural Coodities
(1975 constant prices)
Years ----
85
75      76       77       78      ,79      80       81       82       83      84      and
t  Rice (US$/ton)                                                                                                                              after
Rice Bas ti(FOB K5arach)                                   I20      390      360      330     330      330      330      330     330      330      330
A"":    gging  and transportation                         14     31        14      14       14       14       14      14       14       14 ls
charges to Karachi and delivery FOB
Net price/ton of rice                             406     376      346      316     316      316      316      3316     316     316      316
Equivalent price per ton of paddy (2/3)                 271      257      231     211      211      211      211     211      21.      211      21
MIlling cherges                                           3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Net value per ton of paddy basuati                      268      251     228      208      208      208     208      208      208      208      208
CaarserRice (FOB Karachi)                                  330      320      310     300      290      280      270     260      250      240      240
vrage bagging and tranaportation                         14       1        14      14       14       14      14       14       14 l14 1h
Charges to Karachi and delivery FOB
Net price per tos of rice                        316      306      296      286     276      266      256      2h46    236      226      226
Fquivalent price per ton of paddy (2/3)                 211      204     197      191      184      177     171      164      157      191      151
Milling eharese                                           3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Net value per ton o  coere. paddy                       208      201     194      188      181      174  '  168      161      124      18      1li8
2/ Wheat (US$/ton)
Canadian, in store Thunder Bay                             200      180      162      145     130      125     125      125      125       125    125
Insurance and freight to Karachi                            40       240      40       40      40       40       40       40 h40 ,40                40
Price CIF Xarachi                                          240      220      202     185      170      165     165      165      165      165      165
Bagging and transportation charges for distribution         14       14       14      114      114 1h            14 lh  1h                 lih      14
Net price per ton of wheat                                 254      234     216      199      184      179     179      179      179      179      179
1Maise (US$/ton)
uS FOB Gulf Ports                                          125      112      109     100       95       93       93      93       93       93       93
Insurance and freight to Karachi                            O       40       40       40      40       40       40       40     240      240      240
Price CIF Karachi                                          165      152      145      140     13-5    133      133      133      133      133     133
Bagging and transportation charges for distribution         11l      1h       124     14       124      1        14      14       14       14       14
Net price per ton of maise                                 179      166      159     154      149      147      147     1147     147      147      17
3/  Cotton (USsAb)
Maxican SKl -1/16" CIF N. Drope                             56       55       52       52      52       52       52       52      52       52       52
Lint of sae length but average quality 2/
CIF N.  rope                                           524      53      50       50       50       50      50       90       50       90      90
Insurance and freight Karachi - N. Europe                    3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3
Lint 1-161 average quality FOB Karachi                      51      50       47       47       47      47       47       47       47      47       47
Ginning and baling expenses, transportation to
Karachi and exporter's comission                        9        9       9        9        9        9       9        9        9        9        9
Equivalent value to farer, per pound of lint                 42     241       38      38       38       38       38      38       38       38       38
Equivalent value to farmer, per ton of lint (in US$)   924          902      836     836      836      836      836     336      836      836      836
Lint 1516" average quality 2/ FOB Karachi                    46      45      242       42       42      42       62       42      i2       42       42
Ginning and baling expenses, transportation to
Karschi and exporters  cission                          9        9       9        9        9        9       9        9        9        9       9
Equivalent value to farmer, per pound of lint               37       36       33      33       33       33       33      33       33       33       33
Equivalent value to farmer, per ton of lint (in US$)   8124         792      726     726      726      726      726     726      726      726      726
Cotton seed CIF Karachi I/ (US$ per ton)                   176      170      167     163      163      162      169     178      187      197      205
Transportation and distribution cost (sS$ per ton)          10       10       10      10       10       10       10      10       10       10       10
Equivalent value to the farmer per ton of
cotton seed (US)                                      186      180     177      173      173       172    179      188      197     207      215
Equivalent value (US$) to the farmer for 3 tons of
seed cotton (1-1/6")   /                            1,296   1,262   1,190   1,182   1,182   1,180   1,194   1,212   1,230   1,250   1,266
Equivalent value (S8) to td  farmer for 1 ton of
seed cotton  1-1/l6")                                 432      2431    397      394      394     393      398      403      410      417      422
Equivalent value US0$) to the farmer for 3 tons of
seed cotton (1596")  4/                             1,186   1,152   1,080   1,072   1,072   1,070   1,084   1,102   1,120   1,140   1,156
Equivalent value (US$) to the farmer for 1 ton of
seed cotton ( 15A6" )                                 395      384     360      357      357      357     361      367      373     380      385
1/  The difference of price between the top quality Menican SM 1-1/16" and an average quality of
the same fiber length is about 2 ctsAb.
Z/  The lint with a fiber length of about 15/16" usually fetches prices some 10% below the 1-1/16" variety.
3/ To determine the value of cotton seed in relation to a world price, it is assued that the incremental
production will be import substituting by decreasing the need of import of vegetable oil. Therefore,
the value of cotton seed is related to what would be the cost In PLkistan of 1 ton otf iported seed.
2    This value has been cosputad  by adding the value of 1 ton of lint of the corresponding variety to
the value of 2 tons of cotton seed



PAltISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Economic Cost of the Seed Growera FarmsI
(Rs '000)
Veer
1      2              3           4           5      6         7     8         9         10           11           12-17            18           19         20
Inveetment and renewal it/                               -    43,500         43,500        -          -        -        -      -         -      19.031       19,031           _            19,031       19031
-   (24,882)       (24,882)       -                                                   (15,225)    (15.2251                       (15,225)    (15.225)       -
Operating aurplue vithout project-/
Model I (wheet/cotto.) (940 farmer4)               -    21,469          42,938
Model 11 (wheatrice/lize (9410 farmers)            -    1,Q031          38 062
Ssb-total operating  urplue                              -    40,500         £1,000
-   (40,500)       (81,000)
Operating cost o
Model I (.heat/cotton) (94I3 fermer)               -    36,863          75,046    81,301      88,360                                _                                        _               _
Hodel II (wheat/rice/iz*) (940 farmers)            -    36,1            75 435    81,237      87,233                                                                                                          ,
8ub-total operating coats                                -    72,967        TrisT    T_77M  .15...
(13,134)       (27,072)  (29,250)   (31,608)                                                                - - ---          ----  --------    _
SONILI W COSTS:
Inveatant                                                -    43,500         43,500        -                                                    19,031       19,031           _            19,031       19,031
-   (24,882)       (24.882)                  --                                       (15,225)    (15,225)           -           (15,225)    (15,225)
Total annual cost-                                      -   113,467         231.481   243,538    256,593
-   (53,634)      (108,072) (110,250)  (112.608)                                 _                                                          _               -
1/ Figures within brackets are the foreign exchange eomponent of the corresponding it_a.  The economic coat for the project includes the  o-veat.-nt cost, the operating aurplna to the aced grower
without the project and the operating coat with the project.
2/ The unit cost of the investment per farm is given in Annex 13, Table 4.  1,880 farm  are to be developed, in yeara 2 and 3. 50% each year.
3/  Operating surplus are given for the two types of farmers in Annex 13, Table 4.  501 of the farmers correspond to   odel 1, 50% to  wodel 11.
4/  The operating costa for the two types of famers  re given in Annex 13, Table 4.
51 Operating surplus plus operating coste.



PAKI STAN
SEED PROJECT
Economic Cost of the Seed Corporations I
(Re '000)
Years:
Invetmet ad Reewa   21     1        2        3          4         5           6          7          8         9       t0  11     12         13         14    15 16      17         18        19      20
Processing Equipment              -   43,344    33,928    11.116              -           -  10,113       7,890     2,647   -  -   11,439         8,855      2,946   -  -  10.113       7,890      2,647   -
+ Physical Contingencies   -    4,33            3,393      1,112            -           -   L1.01         789       265   -  -    1,144           §86        295           1.011         789       265   -
-   47,678    37,321    12,228                         -  11,124       8,679      2,912   -  -   12.583        9,741      3,241           11.124      8,619      2,912   -
-  (28,608) (22,392)( 7,338)               -           -( 2,469)   (1,909) (  641)  -  -( 3,692)  (2.763) (  980)                        ( 2,464)   (1,909)  (  64)  -
building and Storage              -   18,361    14,559       4.845            -           -
+ Physical Contingenciea    -    1,836           1,456       484            -           -
-   20,197   16,015        5,329           -           -
-(4,039) ( 3,203)  (1,066)               -           -
Vehicles                          -     3,406      1 ,7 52      212           -           -   2,794       1,403        173   --        2,799      1,403        173  -- 2,794             1,403        173   -
+ Physical Contingencies (5%)           170         86         it           -           -      135         70        86              __-135        70         86            _135          70        86   -
-    3,576      1,838        223           -           -   2,929       1.473        259   --         2.929     1.473        2i5-9          2.929      1.473        259   -
-   (2,061)  (1,059)        (128)          -           -  (1,687)  (  848)         (149)  -- (1,687)  (  848)               (149)         (1.687)   (  848)       (149)  -
Total:  Investment and Renewal -   71,451    55,174    17,780                   -           -  14,053    10,152        3,171   -  - 15,512    11.214    3,5 -0                 14,053    10,152       3,171    -
-  (34,708) (26,654) (8,532)               -           - (4,156) (2,707)   (790)  -  -(5,379) (3,611)  (1,129) -                         (4,151) (2,757)  (790)  -
Operating Cost'
Processing Plants 3
Cereals 41/    -           -    4,608    13,645       22,519      26,802
-   (1,758)( 3,428)  ( 5,672)   ( 6.733)
Cotton  '      -          -    5,023       8,629     22,340      26,063Saefurs ro.ar6t20
(1,420)  (2,938)  ( 6,313)   ( 7,365)
Corporation Headquarters  6/ -    5,406            5,681      5,957      6,227       6,514
-    (1,350)  (1,420)  (1,489)    (1,557)    (1,628)
total: Operatini Cost               -     5,406    15,312    28,231       51,146      59,379
(1,350)( 4,598)  ( 7,B55)  (13,542)   (15,726)
It  Figures  within brackets indicate the foreign exchange component.
2/The various equipment costs are derived from Tables in Annexes 3,4 andI10.Thte phasing is as indicated in the Project Cost Annex (Annex  a), but the years here taken ae-
the calendar years instead of fiscal years as In the tables of the Project C'st. 
were derived from Annex 4  , Tables 9               and   10 . respectively, leaving out the cost of raw material and the overhead  coat of the Corporation (taken into account1
elsewhere) and adding the cost of transporting and distributing the processed seeds. The phasing of production is given In Table 1.
4/  Or the baeis of e production cost of  Re 229 per ton (derived from Anner  4, Tah!e  9   1, V!ua  RA 181 per ton for distrrb,-in- aru  ..1. t,  rh. f,-s.r~   Thf. latter
figure was itself arrived at by providing for a transportation cost of Re 1.65 and a desier cosuission of Re 5.00 per .saund.
5/  On the basis of a product cost of  Rs 373 per ton (derived from Annex   4  * Table  10 ) plus  Re 218 per ton for distribution and sale to the farmer.  This latter figure
was itself arrived at by providing for a transportation cost of Rs 3.00 (for an average distance of 100 miles) and a dealer comaiesion of Re 5.00 per maund.
6/  See Annex 10, Table 2.



PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
Economic Cost of the Quality Control -1
(Re '000)
1       2      3      4    5    6         7      8      9   10  11       12        13      14  15   16    17       18      19      20
Investment:
National Seed Certification Agency         750    1853   1377   125          150    250    350    250        150    250    1,538    250    150    250    350    250           ----
+ Physical Contirgencies                 37       93     69      6  --      7      12      17      12---   7       12         77     12 --          __     _.i 7             -1
787    1946   1446   131  ---  157    262    367    262 --- 157    262    1,615    262 --  157   262    367    262                  ---
(283)    (701) (521)   (47)         (78)  (131)  (183)  (131)    (78)  (131)   (942)    (131)          (78) (131)  (183)  (131)
Registration Agency                         63      412      --    --   --   50    --         --      --  --  SO    241         ---    ---        50    --      --      --      --
+ Ph~ysical Contirgenciee                 3       21     --           --15                                                   ------- 12        5 
66     433      --    --   --   55    --         --      --  --  55    253         ---               55    __      __      __      __
(30)   (200)    --    __   __  (27)   -_          __      __  -- (27)  (167)        ---    ---   (27)   -_          __      __      __
Total Investment:                   853    2379   1446   131   --   212   262    367    262   --212    515    1.615    262  -- 212   262    367    262                   __
(313)   (901) (621)   (41)  --  (105) (131)  (183)  (131)  --(105) (298)   (942)    (131) --(105) (131)  (183)  (131)    --
Operating Costs
National Seed Certification Agency         155      680   1272  1502   1510
(29)    (72)   (143) (163)  (163)
Same figures from year 6 to 20.
Registration Agency                         13      112    147
__     (9)    (18)
Total Operating Costs               168      792   1419  1649   1657
(29)    (81)  (161) (181)  (181)
1/  Capital and operating costs are given in Annex 5, Tables I and 2.  Figures ilthin  brackets represent the foreign exchange component,



ANNEX 14
Table 11
PAKISTAN
SEED PROJECT
1/
Economic Cost of Technical Assistance and TrainIne-
(Rs T000)
Years
Year    Year      Year     Year    Year 6 and
1        2        3        4        5   After
Technical Assistance   2,930    3,715    3,640    1,970    450    -
(2,403)  (3,o46)  (2,985)  (1,615)  (369)   -
Training               1,350    1,00o       378               -     -
(1,215)    (900)    (340)      -       -     -
Total                  4,280    4,715    4,018    1,970    450    -
(3,618)  (3,946)  (3,325)  (1,615)  (369)   -
1/  The amount and phasing of technical assistance and training is given
in Annex 7, Tables 1 and 2. The cost of technical assistance and
training for the pilot project was left out.



,'A. . .TM2
sEED P-2..~ 's.
5--oroooo1.. v         , c o-    f thE Prolc-
(ft. '000)
1t        I 2         3            4           5           o             7            S            9            10           1             12          13           14            15           16            17           li              19            20
' 1,.. Omonl                               -       43,500       43,500         -           -             -            -            -            -          19.031        19,031           -           -             -            -            -             -          19,031         19.031
-      (24.882)    ('!4,882)         -           -            -            -            -                      (15,225)       115,225)              I-     _             _            _            _                        15,225)      (15.225)
O -I   Co                                  _      113.467      231.481      243. 538       .,3       25w593
-      (53.634)  t108.072)   (110.2501  (212,08)  (112,608)
Seed Corporoolo.,sV/
32200.62.000                               -       71,451       55.741        7.180         -            -          14,053       1',152        3.1,1         -              _           15,512      11,214         3,414         _             _          14.053       10.152          3.171
-       34, 08)   (20.6452        (8,532)       -             -         (4,151)       (2,757)        (7901        -              -           (5,379)    '3,S11)       (1129)         -            -           (4.151)      (2,7571          (790)
Ot1..9 .o.t                                         5,406       15.310      2.231       5 .14-        59.379       51.12      _                                                                                                                                                                   _
-       21,350)      (3.9982      (7.355)   13,542)    (1 ,726         (15,726)
Oo.212o Co02001
nl                      P5 .203    2,319        1.446           131        -             212          262          367           2v1        _               212            515      1,615           202                        212          262           357           262
.3131         902)        (521)         04')       _            (1052        '131)        (13)3)        ti3l)                      ( )            (293,       91.2)        (13>)         -            2103)         (13:)        1163)         (131)
OperotOOl C,,s)                           2a5          79'       1.419         1.649     1.57         i1657                                     ,                               _
129)         . i3)       116)1        11(1        219)         2)91 _)
'o..,,1e   0e1   2o'o-noo                4,20.)       4,115         S.0)9        1.97.)         45.2  _____________________________                                      ___                    
-n1 r000a1 4                         '3,629)       25.9242      13.325)      (1.6252       (3)59)    _ ____
Th,0l
ve,0020eo00                   5.133     122.245      1 4,0 i1        9.281         1i            2,2      2.3. 2 A        S            ,9 3.433    09,31         19.243        14.0'27    15,92"          2,66          .              212       14,3.5       29,550        22,464
23.931)    2(4.43')    ¢55.3.3 2    20.194)           13302        220,2      24.232)      (2,92.3,       (921)    (25.220)       (15.331)        (5,6'7)    24,553)       (1,2502         -             1105)      (4.2322    ( 165)          (16.2061          -
07102p-fls  200?                   159     219.6.55     OoA,012      203.020    3241,2),      322 620       217.623 
(29)   '55,0'5)   212.221)   112,0782) (124,3)1               8 1)0.511)  (123.51;)
2000' C002or-.df2: Sh20v 56,.,rico9O .f
e5,52     120,4S9      109, 1,        20.3 322        .9          222       14,741       IJ,213         3,52        3 23,5)3      43,720         1i.59>      13,284         i,902         .              222       24,741       01.365        24.085
3700o?l.13  00                           171      115.171      2,0,519      235,1)97    322,029      333,411(                                                                             .        -
Clr0-   5,-0f()7                            -          -            -         3,2 '.23     219.,315  1.820.167   2,293,001  2.50,2U 2    .15,'.J 1   2.8,0               ,12,21
9e :    61)-6                           (5,6971 9   215.4.50)  (373.25) 2        1,,71 .   39 tI?   1,413,444   1.9,42   2,2L0,923   2, 1.'.3,30i  2,52213?,   2,52,0.740    2.5.2 .979 ? 2.5,.10  2.S''.fl2   2.51,.574   2.581.3 52 2,5h5.03,   2.55.,208   2.557.469   2,581.574
'1)-' 2.25  2!  '03J,1)  I'   d27
NO,.   F2,0,   '2,.45    -oprO.. 10,,2 (             ,oel 20 1,,o.'onpoflot .
-   2 /  5.2. FaOlO  8                                                                                        4/  2n,, roSlo 11.                                                                                                                                                                            il-
21  S-  9,o,,9.                                                                                           5:  See r",le S.                                                                                                                                                                               , ,
3;  S0,2 Ta?,' .13.                                                                                       3/2,,  252. 112,0 .2,2!,, Izg;urc  be 02 L..20. '.,.. 0 ( 0  200 2e, -,2le. I



I



I BRD- 11616R
-620                       66a                     70                        74.SEPTEMBER 1975
PAKISTAN                                                       U. S. S. R.    J
SEED PROJECT                                          -CHINA
PRIMARY ROADS                                    .                                       -
SECONDARY ROADS                                                 - _
RAILWAYS
AIRPORTS                      ' ,.-
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                -                                     JAMMU
.    -----  IN-TERNATtONAL BOUNDARIES                                                A pND
PIVERS                                    Z'.                 LAABACF'.
. .   t CEA  CEASIE LINE LINE.....                 -                    rdPehw  an / - ta ( * .  oceA@<RE LINE
arm               KASHMIR
> ~~~~ ;; - : t 5; I . ~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA IIV
.CEREAL, PROJECT AREAS ..                                                   sPUrF   ,%~
CERALCOTONP'ROJECT AREAS           Ijhel   *
7       p     POTATO PtLOT PROJECTS           -             D   /        h
'Khan
V    -~ V VEGETABLE PILOT PROJECT    <            Y     I        Lyallpur Mura
_.rr;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   h       ih LKakuw 
Quetta0.K
Kalat              I              h                  DawAlpur!    DIA
J~~
,, ;,;E,<r >7   B A l U C H I    N                                        C N  I NA
A R A B/I A N    SE A    Bumeji Pt. 0                                                   o          I
KA,RACHI,    Tatta                            .,                      I AGLDS
-24°~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO on  n s affifiIN
0     100   200   300   40I A (..r-
KILOMETERS                           -:,-,/NDIBA N                             O CEIA N
62                          6



