CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 620 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Seed Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
4D
j                           Dated March 29, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1976, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) By agreements of even date herewith between the Associa-
tion and the Provinces of Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan, (hereinafter
referred to as Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan), Punjab, Sind and
Baluchistan have each agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of carrying out of the Project; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the
agreements referred to in Recital (B) above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or qny successor thereto;
(b) "Sind" means the Province of Sind, a political subdivision
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(c) "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(d) "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;


﻿-3-
(e) "the Provinces" means the Provinces referred to in (a)
to (c) of this Section;
(f)  "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(g) "Sind Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Sind of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(h) "Baluchistan Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Baluchistan of even date herewith as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(i) "the Provinces Project Agreements" means the agreements
defined in (f) to (h) of this Section and referred to in Recital (B)
of this Agreement and "the respective Province Project Agreement"
means in relation to any one of the Provinces, any such agreement
to which that Province is a party;
(j)  "Seed Act" means the Act of the Borrower dealing with the
production, processing and marketing of seed referred to in Sec-
tion 6.01(e) of this Agreement;
(k) "National Seed Council" means the Borrower's seed policy-
making body established by the Borrower's Notification No. F6-27/75-AP
dated October 17, 1975;


﻿-4-
(1) "Provincial Seed Council" means each of the Province's
seed policy-making body as established by the respective Province;
(m) "Registration Agency" means the unit in the National Seed
Council responsible for the registration of seed;
(n) "Seed CertILication Agency" means the Borrower's seed
certification body established under the Seed Act;
(o) "Punjab Seed Corporation" means the corporation estab-
lished to undertake seed production, processing and marketing in
Punjab by the Punjab Seed Corporation Ordinance No. LEGIS 3 (6)
76 dated February 21, 1976;
(p) "Sind Seed Corporation" means the corporation established
to undertake seed production, processing and marketing in Sind by
the Sind Seed Corporation Act No. 2 of 1976 published in Notifica-
tion No. PAS/LEGIS/BILL-5/76 dated March 4, 1976;
(q) "Seed Corporations" means the Seed Corporations referred
to in (o) and (p) of this Section;
(r) "Seed Growers" means farmers registered with the Seed
Corporations to grow seed as classified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(s) "Project Participants" means Seed Corporations and Seed
Growers;
(t) "Agricultural Research Institutes" means the Agricultural
Research Institutes as described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;


﻿-5-
(u) "Participating Banks" means the banks selected by the
Borrower with the concurrence of the Association to provide funds
to the Seed Growers;
(v) "Seed Project Coordination Committee" means the Borrower's
organizational unit established by the Borrower's Notification No.
F8-5/75-AP dated October 17, 1975;
(w) "Cotton Ordinance" means the Cotton Control Ordinance
of 1966 as adopted by the Borrower's provinces;
(x) "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan or any successor
thereof; and
(y) "Pakistan Central Cotton Committee" means the committee
established under Pakistan Cotton Cess Act No. 30 of 1948.


﻿-6 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1
and August 1 commencing February 1, 1986, and ending August 1, 2025,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
August 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out substantially in accordance
with a Project Implementation Schedule satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, engineering, economic, commercial and
financial policies and practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
and cause all its agencies to take all action which shall be
necessary on their part to enable the Provinces to perform all
their obligations under the Provinces Project Agreaments and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Provinces in carrying
out Parts A, B, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to the Provinces the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to them under Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
under procedures, terms and conditions which shall have been ap-
proved by the Association, including, inter alia, those set forth
in Part A of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿-9-
(b) In order to assist NWFP in carrying out Part D of the
Project located in NWFP, the Borrower shall make available on a
grant basis to NWFP $180,000 (one hundred and eighty thousand
dollars) of the proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (2)
of ScheduAle 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Seed Growers in on-
farm development, for requirements other than tractors and related
implements referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall make available through SBP to the Participating Banks, to be
made further available to the Seed Growers, the proceeds of the
Credit allocated under Category (4) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
under procedures, terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association, including, inter alia, those set forth in Parts
B and C of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b) In order to assist the Seed Growers in on-farm development,
the tractors and related implements procured from the proceeds of
the Credit allocated under Category (3) of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, shall be made available to the Seed Growers under procedures
which shall have been approved by the Association. Such procedures
shall include the acquisition by the Seed Growers of tractors and
related implements (i) by cash payments of the Seed Growers, or
(ii) from proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (3) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement made available through SBP to the
Participating Banks, made further available to the Seed Growers
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association including, inter alia, those set forth in Parts B and C
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿-10-
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Seed Corporations to
meet their working capital requirements, the Borrower shall cause
the Provinces to provide or ensure the provision of, until such
date as the Association shall establish, the Seed Corporations
with loans in the amounts required for the purpose under procedures,
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower, the Provinces
and the Seed Corporations in carrying out the Project and the es-
tablishment of a modern seed industry, the Borrower shall employ,
or cause the Provinces and the Seed Corporations to employ, seed
industry specialists whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Association, and whose terms and conditions
of employment shall be determined after consultation with the
Association.
Section 3.06. In order to assist the Borrower, the Provinces
and the Seed Corporations in processing plant design, preparation
and evaluation of tender documents and supervision of plant con-
struction related to the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or
cause the Provinces and the Seed Corporations to employ, consul-
tants whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory
to the Association, and whose terms and conditions of employment
shall be determined after consultation with the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident


﻿- 11 -
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or shall cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.10. Without limitation or restriction upon the gen-
erality of the provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies and subdivisions
to take all action which shall be necessary on their part to: (i)
make available land for the Seed Corporations' farms and plants,
for the Agricultural Research Institutes to be developed for seed
multiplication and for the pilot projects described in Part E of
the Project, and (ii) determine the locations and dimensions of
such land in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its
agencies and subdivisions to take all action which shall be neces-
sary on their part: (i) to eL,,ure the effective implementation of
the Cotton Ordinance, and (ii) to enable the Agricultural Research
Institutes and the Pakistan Central Cotton Committee to meet the
requirements of the Seed Corporations for the pre-basic seed as
classified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its
agencies and subdivisions to take all action which shall be neces-
sary on their part to enable the Agricultural Research Institutes


﻿-13 -
to recover seed of pre-release varieties grown experimentally on
farmers' plots, and shall not permit seed from experimental plots
to be used as pre-basic seed as classified in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its
agencies and subdivisions to take all action which shall be neces-
sary to ensure that Project Participants shall: (i) have priority
in the allocation of the services of tubewell drilling rigs financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) be the sole purchasers
of tractors financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of: (i) the
departments or agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof including, inter
alia, the National Seed Council and the Seed Certification Agency,
and (ii) SBP and the Participating Banks.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all th- institutions referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section, in respect of activities related
to the Project, to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than five months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of all the institutions referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
and the audit thereof together with their annual budgets, quarterly
progress reports and draft annual accounts, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-15 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the institutions re-
ferred to in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, in
respect to activities related to the Project, to take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of the obligations of the Provinces under the Provinces Project
Agreements and shall promptly inform each other of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the perfor-
mance of the said obligations by the Provinces.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain the secretariat of
the Seed Project Coordination Committee with adequate and competent
personnel.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any Province shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or other obligation of such Province under the respective
Province Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any of the Provinces shall be able to per-
form its obligations under the respective Province Project Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that, any event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:.
(a) the execution and delivery of each of the Provinces Proj-
ect Agreements on behalf of the respective Province have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b) arrangements to make the proceeds of the Credit available
as referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, have been con-
cluded to the satisfaction of the Association;
(c) consultants for processing plant design, preparation and
evaluation of tender documents referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement, have been appointed;
(d) rights of use to the land referred to in Section 3.10 of
this Agreement have been transferred to the Seed Corporations; and
(e) enactment of the Seed Act satisfactory to the Association
and the establishment under such Act of the Seed Certification
Agency and the Registration Agency.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished


﻿- 18                                     0
to the Association, namely, that each of the Provinces Project
Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the respective Province, and is legally
binding upon such Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 30, 1976 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 20-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By Is! A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BY /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works and                               40% of amounts
On-Farm Devel-                               disbursed
opment on other
than Seed Grow-
ers' Farms
(a) Borrower                  90,000
(b) Punjab                 1,230,000
(c) Sind                     300,000
(d) Baluchistan               80,000
(2) Material and Equip-                           100% of foreign
ment other than                              expenditures for
Tractors and relat-                          imported items
ed implements for                            or 100% of local
Seed Growers                                 expenditures (ex-
factory) for lo-
cally manufactured
items or 60% of
expenditures for
other locally pro-
cured goods


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(a) Borrower                 250,000
(b) Punjab                 6,300,000
(c)  Sind                  2,350,000
(d) Baluchistan              100,000
(3) Tractors and relat-                           100% of foreign
ed implements for                            expenditures
Seed Growers
(a) Punjab                 1,870,000
(b) Sind                     390,000
(4) Loans through Par-                            50% of amounts
ticipating Banks                             disbursed
to Seed Growers
for purposes other
than imported
tractors and farm
equipment
(a) Punjab                 1,450,000
(b) Sind                     300,000
(5) Technical Assistance        1,800,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Overseas Training             250,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(7) Unallocated                 6,240,000
TOTAL      23,000,000


﻿-23-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes lev,d by,
*      or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
a      the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that


﻿- 24-
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to or at the
request of the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the initial development phase of a
modern seed industry in Pakistan and consists of the following:
Part A    Seed Corporations and Seed Growers:
1.   Provision of machinery.
2.   Construction of tubewells for supplementary irrigation.
3.   Land levelling and water-course improvement.
Part B    Seed Corporations:
1.   Construction of processing plants, seed stores,
administrative buildings and staff housing.
2.   Provision of vehicles.
Part C    Seed Certification Agency and Registration Agency:
1.   Construction of buildings.
2.   Provision of laboratory equipment, facilities for
pre- and post-control and variety release trials,
and vehicles.


﻿- 26-
Part D    Agricultural Research Institutes:
Provision of equipment for production and processing of
pre-basic seed.
Part E    Pilot Projects:
1.   Vegetable and potato seed production and marketing in
Baluchistan.
2.   Potato seed multiplication in Punjab and NWFP.
Part F    Technical Assistance and Training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿-27-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.2 and C hereof, goods, works
and services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   (a)  Contracts for civil works for Part E of the Project, the
buildings for the Seed Certification Agency and the Registration
Agency, shall be awarded in accordance with local procurement pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
(b) Equipment items with unit prices not exceeding the equi-
valent of $20,000 each, may be purchased through normal trade chan-
nels, provided that the aggregate expenditures for items so pur-
chased shall not exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
(c) Farm machinery and tubewell equipment for Seed Corpora-
tions and Seed Growers shall be procured on a negotiated basis in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association after
solicitation of quotations from local manufacturers and repre-
sentatives of foreign manufacturers, provided that the aggregate
expenditure for farm machinery and tubewell equipment so purchased
shall not exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.


﻿- 28-
(d) Tractors shall be procured in accordance with procedures,
including, inter alia, solicitation of quotations from manufacturers
on the basis of customer preference, acceptable to the Association.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (Pakistan port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Pakistan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿-29 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Pakistan
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Pakistan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Pakistan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and


﻿-30-
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Certain farm improvement work involving fine levelling and
water course improvement may be carried out on force account by
the Provincial Departments of Agriculture and Seed Corporations.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification.
If prequalification is required the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.


﻿-31-
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, together with the recommendation for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Asso-
ciation shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 32 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the con-
tract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


﻿-33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Agricultural Research Institutes
Punjab                             Lyallpur
Kala Shah Kaku
Sialkot
Yousufwalla
Multan
Sind                               Tandojam
Dokri
Sakrand
Baluchistan                        Quetta
NWFP                               Tarnab
Pir Sabak


﻿-34-
SCHEDULE 5
Seed Classification
pre-basic seed           -        seed of high genetic purity
produced by the plant
breeder.
basic seed               -        progeny of pre-basic seed
produced by Seed Corpora-
tions.
certified seed          -         progeny of basic seed
certified by the Seed
Certification Agency.
approved seed            -        seed true to species,
multiplied from certified
seed.


﻿-35 -
SCHEDULE 6
Principal Terms and Conditions
Under Which Funds are to be Made Available
A.   Borrower to Provinces
1.   Loan portion
Loan perioa          :        20 years
Grace period                  10 years
Interest rate       :         8% per annum
Objective                     For equity in Seed
Corporations
2.   Grant portion
Objective            :        For research, pilot
projects and tube-
well drilling rigs
B.   Borrower, through SBP, to Participating Banks
Loan period                   9 years
Grace period                  2 years
Interest rate                 8% per annum (includ-
ing commission of 1%
per annum for SBP)
Objective                     For onlending to Seed
Grower
C.   Participating Banks to Seed Growers
Loan period                   8 years
Grace period                  2 years
Interest rate       :         11% per annum
Objective                     To cover 85% of Seed
Growers' on-farm de-
velopment costs


